---

title: Systems and methods for augmenting a keyword of a web page with video content
abstract: The present disclosure relates to systems and methods for delivering related video content to a user in response to user actions on augmented keywords on a web page. A server may receive from a browser, in response to an indication of a mouse over a keyword currently displayed on a web page of a client, a keyword identified for augmentation via a user interface overlay. The server may identify, responsive to receiving the keyword, a plurality of videos related to the keyword. A content relevancy engine may determine an order of relevance of the plurality of videos to the keyword. The server may transmit to the client, within a predetermined time period from the indication, the user interface overlay to include a selected one or more videos of the plurality of videos with a higher order of relevance.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09348935&OS=09348935&RS=09348935
owner: VIBRANT MEDIA, INC.
number: 09348935
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100629
---
This disclosure generally relates to the field of data augmentation in particular to augmenting keywords in web pages with relevancy ordered video content.

An enterprise serving web pages to a user may wish to provide the user with an easier and quicker access to information the user is looking for. The services of the enterprise may aim to increase the user s satisfaction by decreasing the amount of time the user spends finding the relevant information. As the user searches the world wide web for the relevant information the user may often open many new web pages which do not include the relevant content. The user may become even more dissatisfied when the old web pages from which the user began searching are closed or lost during the search process. The enterprise may wish to provide the user with an option to find the relevant information without having to exit the current web page in order to access a next one which may or may not include the information the user is looking for.

Hypertext is a computer based text used in a web page to provide information to a user and organize the web page content into interconnected associations. These associations may enable the user to easily access information the user chooses or clicks. An instance of such an association is called a hyperlink or hypertext link. A hyperlink when selected leads the viewer to another web page or file or resource collectively called the destination page .

In order to access the supplemental information provided through hyperlinks viewers are required to leave their current web pages. This requirement interrupts the viewers web browsing experience. As a result most viewers are reluctant to visit the destination page provided by hyperlinks

In addition traditionally the hyperlinks are generated by human editors a process that is both tedious and subject to human errors. Further by the time a viewer tries to visit a destination page of a hyperlink the destination page may cease to exist or have evolved to no longer provide the related information.

In some cases the viewer leaves the web page to visit a destination page that does not have information desired by the viewer. The user then may have to search for other destination pages to try to obtain the desired information. This may lead the viewer to perform multiple searches and visit several pages to find the desired information. The viewer may become dissatisfied with the amount of activity to find the desired information and with leaving the current destination page to do so.

Systems and methods of the present solution deliver relevancy ordered media content such as video dynamically and in real time to augment keywords on a web page to enhance the user s browsing experience. As a browser loads a web page and within a predetermined time period a server identifies a set of video content related to one or more keywords on the web page and ranks the video content according to relevancy. A number of the ranked video content is selected and sent to the browser for augmenting the keyword via a user interface overlay for the keyword. When the user mouses over or clicks the keyword on the web page the user interface overlay may be displayed to show or identify the selected set of relevancy ranked videos.

In some aspects the present disclosure relates to a method for delivering related video content for augmented keywords on a web page. A server may receive from a browser in response to an indication of a mouse over a keyword currently displayed on a web page of a client a keyword identified for augmentation via a user interface overlay. The server may identify responsive to receiving the keyword a plurality of videos related to the keyword. A content relevancy engine may determine an order of relevance of the plurality of videos to the keyword. The server may transmit to the client within a predetermined time period from the indication the user interface overlay to include a selected one or more videos of the plurality of videos with a higher order of relevance.

In some embodiments the browser displays the user interface overlay with the selected one or more videos as an overlay on the web page currently displaying the keyword. In other embodiments the client displays a selected video via one or more banners on the web page currently displaying the keyword. In further embodiments the server receives the keyword responsive to the indication that the cursor was over the keyword for a predetermined time period. In still further embodiments the server receives the keyword responsive the indication that the user selected the keyword. In yet further embodiments the server identifies the plurality of videos from a web site hosting the web page. In still further embodiments the server identifies the plurality of videos via a network to one or more external web sites. In still further embodiments the server identifies the plurality of videos via a search of videos related to the keyword via one or more search engines external to the server.

In some embodiments the content relevancy engine determines the order of relevance of the plurality of videos based on information provided by one or more search results. In further embodiments the server selects a predetermined number of the one or more videos rated as of highest order of relevancy to the keyword. In still further embodiments the server transmits to the client the selected one or more videos that are available to transmit to the client within the predetermined time period.

In some aspects the present disclosure relates to a system for delivering related video content for augmented keywords on a web page. A server may receive from a browser responsive to an indication of a mouse over a keyword currently displayed on a web page of a client a keyword identified for augmentation via a user interface overlay. The server may identify a plurality of videos related to the keyword. A content relevancy engine may determine an order of relevance of the plurality of videos to the keyword. The server may transmit to the client within a predetermined time period from the indication the user interface overlay to include a selected one or more videos of the plurality of video with a higher order of relevance.

In some embodiments the browser displays the user interface overlay with the selected one or more videos as an overlay on the web page currently displaying the keyword. In further embodiments the browser displays a selected video via one or more banners on the web page currently displaying the keyword. In further embodiments the server receives the keyword responsive to the indication that the cursor was over the keyword for a predetermined time period. In yet further embodiments the server receives the keyword responsive the indication that the user selected the keyword.

In some embodiments the content relevancy engine identifies the plurality of videos from one of a web site hosting the web page. In further embodiments the content relevancy engine identifies the plurality of videos via a search of videos related to the keyword via one or more search engines external to the server. In still further embodiments the content relevancy engine determines the order of relevance of the plurality of videos based on information provided by one or more search results. In some embodiments the server selects a predetermined number of the one or more videos rated as of highest order of relevancy to the keyword. In further embodiments the server transmits to the client the selected one or more videos that are available to transmit to the client within the predetermined time period.

In the drawings like reference numbers generally indicate identical functionally similar and or structurally similar elements.

For purposes of reading the description of the various embodiments below the following descriptions of the sections of the specification and their respective contents may be helpful 

Some of the disclosed embodiments describe examples of a method and corresponding system and computer program product for augmenting files with related resources through layered augmentation. Viewers of the augmented files can access the related resources through a multi layered dialog box. The process of providing additional resources through multilayered dialog box and the multi layered dialog box are collectively called layered augmentation.

An embodiment of the method identifies data in a file associates the identified data with reference data in a reference database and stores the associations in a corresponding augmented file. A viewer of the augmented file can access resources related to a piece of augmented data through layered augmentation. When the viewer moves a pointer over the piece of augmented data also called mouse over the related resources are provided in a multi layered dialog box. The dialog box is overlaid on the augmented file approximate to the position where the mouse over occurred. The viewer can navigate through the related resources in the dialog box without leaving the augmented file.

As described herein a file includes any types of documents such as web pages. Augmented data the data with integrated association in an augmented file include any types of content such as text and image. Resources provided through layered augmentations include textual content visual content such as images and videos interactive controls such as dialog boxes and services such as Internet search service and advertisement. A pointer can be any pointer device such as a mouse a trackball a roller and a touchpad. For purposes of illustration the method and corresponding system and computer program product is described in terms of augmenting keywords or key phrases in web pages and delivering related advertisements through multi layered dialog boxes based on user interactions with the augmented keywords even though the disclosed embodiments apply to all other types of content files and resources as defined above.

The figures and the following description relate to preferred embodiments by way of illustration only. Reference will now be made in detail to several embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. The figures depict embodiments of the disclosed system or method for purposes of illustration only. It should be noted that from the following discussion other or alternate embodiments of the structures and methods disclosed herein will be readily recognized by one skilled in the art as viable alternatives that may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

The augmentation server is configured to augment keywords or other types of content in web pages or other types of documents with advertisements or other types of resources and deliver the advertisements based on user interaction with the augmented keywords. The augmentation server retrieves web pages from the content providers and augments the web pages. The augmentation server augments a web page by identifying keywords in the web page associating or tagging the keywords with one or more related references in a reference database generating an augmented web page and storing the associations in a database. When a user views an augmented web page in a client computer and moves a pointer over one of the augmented keywords hereinafter the activated keyword the augmentation server displays or avails related advertisements in the client computer through a multi layered dialog box. An example architecture of the augmentation server is described in detail below with respect to .

The content providers are entities that provide or generate host publish control or otherwise have rights over a collection of web pages or other types of documents . In one embodiment the content providers are web servers hosting web pages for viewers to access. The content providers may provide web pages to the augmentation server for layered augmentation. Alternatively the content providers may either instruct or give permission to the augmentation server to retrieve all or parts of their web pages for layered augmentation.

A client may comprise any personal computer e.g. based on a microprocessor from the x86 family the Pentium family the 680x0 family PowerPC PA RISC MIPS families the ARM family the Cell family network computer wireless device e.g. mobile computer PDA smartphone information appliance workstation minicomputer mainframe computer telecommunications or media device that is capable of communication and that has sufficient processor power and memory capacity to perform the operations described herein. For example the client may comprise a device of the IPOD family of devices manufactured by Apple Computer of Cupertino Calif. a PLAYSTATION 2 PLAYSTATION 3 or PERSONAL PLAYSTATION PORTABLE PSP device manufactured by the Sony Corporation of Tokyo Japan a NINTENDO DS NINTENDO GAMEBOY NINTENDO GAMEBOY ADVANCED NINTENDO REVOLUTION or NINTENDO WII device manufactured by Nintendo Co. Ltd. of Kyoto Japan or an XBOX or XBOX 360 device manufactured by the Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. In some embodiments the client may include any of the Kindle family of devices sold or provided by Amazon.com.

Operating systems supported by the client can include any member of the WINDOWS family of operating systems from Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. MacOS JavaOS various varieties of Unix e.g. Solaris SunOS Linux HP UX A IX and BSD based distributions any embedded operating system any real time operating system any open source operating system any proprietary operating system any operating systems for mobile computing devices or any other operating system capable of running on the computing device and performing the operations described herein. Typical operating systems include WINDOWS 3.x WINDOWS 95 WINDOWS 98 WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS NT 3.51 WINDOWS NT 4.0 WINDOWS CE WINDOWS XP and WINDOWS VISTA all of which are manufactured by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. MaC OSX manufactured by Apple Computer of Cupertino Calif. OS 2 manufactured by International Business Machines of Armonk N.Y. and Linux an open source operating system distributed by among others Red Hat Inc. or any type and or form of a Unix operating system among others.

The client computers may be any type and form of client devices for users to browse web pages or other types of documents . In one embodiment a client computer includes a pointer device e.g. a mouse a trackball a roller a touchpad or the like a conventional web browser e.g. Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox or Apple Safari and can retrieve and display web pages from the content providers in a conventional manner e.g. using the HyperText Transfer Protocol . In one embodiment the client computer displays augmented keywords in an augmented web page differently than the non augmented content. For example the augmented keywords can be displayed in a double underline style and or in a color distinctive from texts that are not augmented. When a user moves a pointer e.g. mouse pointer over e.g. mouse over an augmented keyword in the augmented web page the client computer or the utilized web browser generates a request and transmits the request to the augmentation server . The augmentation server receives the request and determines relevant advertisements to transmit to the client computer . The client computer or the utilized web browser displays the advertisements retrieved from the augmentation server in a multi layered dialog box overlaying the augmented web page and proximate to the location where the mouse over occurred. The multi layered dialog box displays an advertisement and multiple clickable tabs representing the other retrieved advertisements. The viewer can select e.g. click a tab to request the dialog box to display the corresponding advertisement. The viewer may navigate among the multiple advertisements and interact with the advertisements without leaving the augmented web page.

The network is configured to communicatively connect the augmentation server the content providers and the client computers . The network may be a wired or wireless network. Examples of the network include the Internet an intranet a WiFi network a WiMAX network a mobile telephone network or a combination thereof. The network may be any type and or form of network and may include any of the following a point to point network a broadcast network a wide area network a local area network a telecommunications network a data communication network a computer network an ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode network a SONET Synchronous Optical Network network a SDH Synchronous Digital Hierarchy network a wireless network and a wireline network. In some embodiments the network may comprise a wireless link such as an infrared channel or satellite band. The topology of the network may be a bus star or ring network topology. The network and network topology may be of any such network or network topology as known to those ordinarily skilled in the art capable of supporting the operations described herein. The network may comprise mobile telephone networks utilizing any protocol or protocols used to communicate among mobile devices including AMPS TDMA CDMA GSM GPRS or UMTS. In some embodiments different types of data may be transmitted via different protocols. In other embodiments the same types of data may be transmitted via different protocols.

In one embodiment the augmentation server the content providers and or the client computers are structured to include a processor memory storage network interfaces and applicable operating system and other functional software e.g. network drivers communication protocols . The client server and content providers may be deployed as and or executed on any type and form of computing device such as a computer network device or appliance capable of communicating on any type and form of network and performing the operations described herein.

The central processing unit is any logic circuitry that responds to and processes instructions fetched from the main memory unit . In many embodiments the central processing unit is provided by a microprocessor unit such as those manufactured by Intel Corporation of Mountain View Calif. those manufactured by Motorola Corporation of Schaumburg Ill. those manufactured by Transmeta Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. the RS 6000 processor those manufactured by International Business Machines of White Plains N.Y. or those manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices of Sunnyvale Calif. The computing device may be based on any of these processors or any other processor capable of operating as described herein.

Main memory unit may be one or more memory chips capable of storing data and allowing any storage location to be directly accessed by the microprocessor such as Static random access memory SRAM Burst SRAM or SynchBurst SRAM BSRAM Dynamic random access memory DRAM Fast Page Mode DRAM FPM DRAM Enhanced DRAM EDRAM Extended Data Output RAM EDO RAM Extended Data Output DRAM EDO DRAM Burst Extended Data Output DRAM BEDO DRAM Enhanced DRAM EDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM JEDEC SRAM PC100 SDRAM Double Data Rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM Enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM SyncLink DRAM SLDRAM Direct Rambus DRAM DRDRAM or Ferroelectric RAM FRAM . The main memory may be based on any of the above described memory chips or any other available memory chips capable of operating as described herein. In the embodiment shown in the processor communicates with main memory via a system bus described in more detail below . depicts an embodiment of a computing device in which the processor communicates directly with main memory via a memory port . For example in the main memory may be DRAM.

The computing device may support any suitable installation device such as a floppy disk drive for receiving floppy disks such as 3.5 inch 5.25 inch disks or ZIP disks a CD ROM drive a CD R RW drive a DVD ROM drive tape drives of various formats USB device hard drive or any other device suitable for installing software and programs such as any software related to providing an agent such as a safe agent as described herein. The computing device may further comprise a storage device such as one or more hard disk drives or redundant arrays of independent disks for storing an operating system and other related software and for storing application software programs such as any program related to an agent as described herein. Optionally any of the installation devices could also be used as the storage device . Additionally the operating system and the software can be run from a bootable medium for example a bootable CD such as KNOPPIX a bootable CD for GNU Linux that is available as a GNU Linux distribution from knoppix.net.

Furthermore the computing device may include a network interface to interface to a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or the Internet through a variety of connections including but not limited to standard telephone lines LAN or WAN links e.g. 802.11 T1 T3 56 kb X.25 broadband connections e.g. ISDN Frame Relay ATM wireless connections or some combination of any or all of the above. The network interface may comprise a built in network adapter network interface card PCMCIA network card card bus network adapter wireless network adapter USB network adapter modem or any other device suitable for interfacing the computing device to any type of network capable of communication and performing the operations described herein. A wide variety of I O devices may be present in the computing device . Input devices include keyboards mice trackpads trackballs microphones and drawing tablets. Output devices include video displays speakers inkjet printers laser printers and dye sublimation printers. The I O devices may be controlled by an I O controller as shown in . The I O controller may control one or more I O devices such as a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or optical pen. Furthermore an I O device may also provide storage and or an installation medium for the computing device . In still other embodiments the computing device may provide USB connections to receive handheld USB storage devices such as the USB Flash Drive line of devices manufactured by Twintech Industry Inc. of Los Alamitos Calif.

In some embodiments the computing device may comprise or be connected to multiple display devices which each may be of the same or different type and or form. As such any of the I O devices and or the I O controller may comprise any type and or form of suitable hardware software or combination of hardware and software to support enable or provide for the connection and use of multiple display devices by the computing device . For example the computing device may include any type and or form of video adapter video card driver and or library to interface communicate connect or otherwise use the display devices . In one embodiment a video adapter may comprise multiple connectors to interface to multiple display devices . In other embodiments the computing device may include multiple video adapters with each video adapter connected to one or more of the display devices . In some embodiments any portion of the operating system of the computing device may be configured for using multiple displays . In other embodiments one or more of the display devices may be provided by one or more other computing devices such as computing devices and connected to the computing device for example via a network. These embodiments may include any type of software designed and constructed to use another computer s display device as a second display device for the computing device . One ordinarily skilled in the art will recognize and appreciate the various ways and embodiments that a computing device may be configured to have multiple display devices 

In further embodiments an I O device may be a bridge between the system bus and an external communication bus such as a USB bus an Apple Desktop Bus an RS 232 serial connection a SCSI bus a FireWire bus a FireWire 800 bus an Ethernet bus an AppleTalk bus a Gigabit Ethernet bus an Asynchronous Transfer Mode bus a HIPPI bus a Super HIPPI bus a SerialPlus bus a SCI LAMP bus a FibreChannel bus or a Serial

A computing device of the sort depicted in FIGs. AugeB and C typically operate under the control of operating systems which control scheduling of tasks and access to system resources. The computing device can be running any operating system such as any of the versions of the Microsoft Windows operating systems the different releases of the Unix and Linux operating systems any version of the Mac OS for Macintosh computers any embedded operating system any real time operating system any open source operating system any proprietary operating system any operating systems for mobile computing devices or any other operating system capable of running on the computing device and performing the operations described herein. Typical operating systems include WINDOWS 3.x WINDOWS 95 WINDOWS 98 WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS NT 3.51 WINDOWS NT 4.0 WINDOWS CE and WINDOWS XP all of which are manufactured by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. MacOS manufactured by Apple Computer of Cupertino Calif. OS 2 manufactured by International Business Machines of Armonk N.Y. and Linux a freely available operating system distributed by Caldera Corp. of Salt Lake City Utah or any type and or form of a Unix operating system among others.

In other embodiments the computing device may have different processors operating systems and input devices consistent with the device. For example in one embodiment the computer is a Treo 180 270 1060 600 or 650 smart phone manufactured by Palm Inc. In this embodiment the Treo smart phone is operated under the control of the PalmOS operating system and includes a stylus input device as well as a five way navigator device. In some embodiments the computing device may include any type and form of wireless reading device such as any Kindle device manufactured by Amazon.com Inc. of Seattle Wash. Moreover the computing device can be any workstation desktop computer laptop or notebook computer server handheld computer mobile telephone any other computer or other form of computing or telecommunications device that is capable of communication and that has sufficient processor power and memory capacity to perform the operations described herein.

A source data file e.g. a web page resides on a server e.g. a content provider on a network e.g. the Internet . The handler retrieves the source data file for augmentation by the augmentation server . The locator examines the retrieved source data file for comparison to data in the reference database . In one embodiment the locator analyzes content of the source data file for keywords searches corresponding reference data in the reference database and provides the keywords and the corresponding reference data to the analyzer . In an alternate embodiment rather than analyzing the source data file for keywords the locator retrieves a list of keywords from the reference database and enumerates through the textual content of the source data file for matches.

The analyzer creates associations between the keywords and the corresponding reference data found by the locator . The generator generates an augmented data file by embedding the associations created by the analyzer in the source data file . The generator embeds associations by generating intelligent tags for the keywords and augmenting the keywords with the intelligent tags. In one embodiment an intelligent tag is an alphabetic and or numeric string that identifies its associated keywords and or reference data and optionally includes an unique identification number hereinafter called the association ID . The generator inserts the generated intelligent tags into the source data file to generate the augmented data file . Web pages with the integrated intelligent tags are called augmented web pages. Keywords with the integrated intelligent tags are called augmented keywords. The generator also stores the identified keywords and or the associations in a database for later references.

The resulting augmented data file is returned to the handler to reside at a Universal Resource Locator URL address on the network e.g. at the content provider from which the source data file is retrieved . In one embodiment the handler also receives requests or signals from client computers indicating user interactions with the augmented data file and transmits to the client computers related advertisements for display through layered augmentation. Layered augmentation is described in detail below with respect to . The handler retrieves the activated keywords e.g. from the requests and determines one or more relevant advertisements from an advertising database not shown that matches the keywords and or the associated reference data. In one embodiment rather than transmitting the related advertisements the handler transmits addresses e.g. URLs of the relevant advertisements to the requesting client computer . The client computer resolves the addresses to retrieve the advertisements.

The reference database stores reference data such as types of advertisements e.g. television advertisements categories of advertisements e.g. storage rental home equity loan and or information about specific advertisements e.g. associated keywords format information price the advertiser is willing to pay and URL of the advertisement . The reference database may be a relational database or any other type of database that stores the data such as a flat file. In one embodiment the reference database is a web enabled reference database supporting remote calls through the Internet to the reference database .

The components of the augmentation server can reside on a single computer system or several computer systems located close by or remotely from each other. For example the analyzer and the generator may reside on separate web servers and the reference database may be located in a dedicated database server. In addition any of the components or sub components may be executed in one or multiple computer systems.

Web pages or web browsers can provide additional information to viewers. For example when a user places a mouse over a link label of a hyperlink a web browser displays the associated destination URL e.g. on a status bar of the web browser . As another example when a user places a pointer over a keyword the web browser may generate a pop up dialog box and display relevant information e.g. an explanation of the keyword . The process of providing additional information to web page viewers is called augmentation.

A keyword or phrase often has multiple aspects of related information each having multiple aspects of related information. For example the key phrase digital camera is related to its history underlying technology and available products and services. A specific product related to digital camera has related information such as product description customer review and competing products. Usually only one aspect of the related information is provided through augmentation due to limited display space.

Multiple aspects of related information can be arranged and provided to viewers through layered augmentation. Each aspect of related information can be assigned to one specific layer of the layered augmentation. Viewers can navigate among the multiple aspects of related information by accessing the different layers of the layered augmentation without leaving the web page. For example the augmented information can be displayed in a multi layered dialog box. A viewer can navigate among different layers by selecting associated tabs displayed in the dialog box in which each tab is associated with a layer. Alternatively the multiple layers may be stacked in a manner similar to windows in Microsoft Windows Operating System. The stacked layers may be arranged in a horizontal vertical or cascade style showing a small exposed portion of each layer such as a title area or a corner area. Navigation between each layer in the stack can be through selection of that small exposed portion of the layer within the stack. The process of providing additional information or resources through multi layered dialog box and the multi layered dialog box are collectively called layered augmentation.

By way of example the illustrated method may be embodied through instructions for performing the actions described herein and such instrumentations can be stored within a tangible computer readable medium and are executable by a processor. Alternatively or additionally the illustrated method may be implemented in modules like those in the augmentation server described above with respect to and or other entities such as the content providers and or the client computers . Furthermore those of skill in the art will recognize that other embodiments can perform the steps of the illustrated method in different order. Moreover other embodiments can include different and or additional steps than the ones described here.

At a block the method locates one or multiple pieces of reference data in the reference database corresponding to the piece of structured data read in the source data file e.g. through the locator . In one embodiment the locator searches for reference data in the reference database that match the piece of structured data by making function calls to the reference database . In one embodiment the structured data are keywords and the reference data also contain keywords.

Keywords are a facile and efficient means of generating layered augmentation. In addition to or instead of using keywords one embodiment uses a fuzzy expert or a neural network analysis of the source data file such as by a natural language search of the source data file to generate a distinct identifier for the content in the source data file . One advantage of a natural language search is the ability to better place content in context making links more contextually appropriate for instance security might relate to security of a physical plant such as security of a residence in one source data file in one context and security of a website in another. In one embodiment the method determines a context of the keywords and or the source data file based on statistical modeling e.g. through the locator . For example a context can be assigned a pre defined set of terms which acts as a fingerprint for the context hereinafter called context fingerprint . The locator can compare the context fingerprints associated with a collection of contexts with the terms within the source data file to determine a percentage match for each context in the collection. Where a high percentage match is achieved e.g. exceeding a pre defined percentage match threshold the locator determines that the associated context is the context for the source data file . Alternatively or in conjunction the locator may determine the context associated with the highest percentage match as the context for the source data file . The context can be used to locate corresponding reference data and or related resources.

At a block the method generates an association to the piece of structured data based upon the located matching reference data e.g. through the analyzer . In one embodiment a piece of reference data includes an identifier such as a keyword a context a unique identification number and or associated URL address es of intended destination resource s based upon the occurrence of the corresponding keywords in the source data file . Generating an association means to associate the piece of structured data located in the source data file with the located reference data in the reference database . The generated association might optionally include additional identification codes such as an association ID. The method then augments the original source data file with the generated association at a block to generate an augmented data file e.g. through the generator .

In one embodiment the method expresses the association as intelligent tags e.g. through the generator . The method generates intelligent tags for the located keywords and tags the keywords with the generated intelligent tags. The intelligent tags contain information about the associated keywords such as the keyword and related context and information about the associated reference data such as IDs that uniquely identify the reference data in the reference database . For example the intelligent tags may contain requirement or preference information about advertisements or other types of resources to be associated with the keyword such as types of advertisements and a minimum advertisement fee. In one embodiment the intelligent tags also format the augmented keywords differently than the other textual content in the augmented web pages. Having generated the augmented data file the method then terminates at a block .

In one embodiment the augmentation server or the content providers also augments the web pages by including computer code hereinafter called client code to monitor and report viewers interactions with the augmented keywords. The computer code can be in any computer language such as JavaScript. Additional functions of the client code are described in detail below with respect to .

The augmented data file can be delivered or transmitted to client computers for display through a web browser to viewers to provide related resources through layered augmentation. The delivery of the augmented data file and the process to provide layered augmentation is described in detail below with respect to . For purpose of illustration the method is described in terms of web pages augmented with advertisements even though the disclosed embodiments apply to other types of augmented data file and resources.

Referring now to a flowchart illustrating an example process or method for providing layered augmentation to viewers of augmented web pages. As illustrated the method transmits an augmented web page to a client computer. For example a user of the client computer may enter the URL of an augmented web page or the corresponding original web page in the address bar of a conventional web browser e.g. Microsoft Internet Explorer Mozilla Firefox or Apple Safari . The web browser of the client computer hereinafter called the client web browser resolves the URL and transmits a request for the web page to a corresponding content provider. Responding to the request the content provider transmits the augmented web page to the client web browser for display. In one embodiment the client web browser displays augmented keywords in a double underline style and or in a color distinctive from text that is not augmented in the augmented web page.

The method receives an intelligent tag request from the client computer . As described above with respect to the augmented web page contains client code that monitors user interactions with augmented keywords. In one embodiment if the user moves a pointer e.g. a pointer controlled by a mouse navigation button or touchpad over a mouse over an augmented keyword the activated keyword the client code which may be integrated with the web browser for example as a plug in applet generates an intelligent tag request and transmits the request to the augmentation server . The request indicates the mouse over user activity to the augmentation server . The request may contain information that uniquely identifies the activated keyword e.g. an association ID and or other information such as the activated keyword itself.

The method determines advertisements relevant to the activated keyword for the received request based on the keyword and or the associated reference data. In one embodiment the augmentation server extracts the keyword and or related context from the request retrieves the associated reference data from the reference database and determines the relevant advertisements by searching in an advertisement database using the keyword and or requirements set forth in the associated reference data e.g. advertisement category context fee requirements etc. .

In one embodiment the method determines the advertisements that match the best e.g. matching the activated keyword and or satisfies the most number of reference requirements as the relevant advertisements. In another embodiment the method determines relevant advertisements based on a context of the augmented web page and or the activated keyword. For example for a key phrase digital camera in an article about digital camera the method may determines the following resources as relevant a product review of a digital camera in CNET.com a collection of user reviews at Buy.com and a selection of similar digital cameras. The context can be determined when the activated keyword is identified in method .

In one embodiment the method determines a sequence for the related advertisements. The top advertisement in the sequence also called the default advertisement or the primary advertisement is the advertisement being displayed on the top layer of the layered augmentation. The lower ranked advertisements also called secondary advertisements are made available on lower layers of the layered augmentation. In one embodiment the method uses a bidding system to determine related advertisements sequence. For example for a key phrase digital camera there may be multiple related advertisements e.g. advertisements for different brands or models of digital cameras each having a bid or budget or cost for the key phrase. The method may determine a sequence of the advertisements based on their bids the one with the highest bid ranked the highest and so on.

In another embodiment the method may determine the sequence of multiple advertisements based on factors other than bidding prices. For example the method may consider factors such as relationships among the multiple advertisements e.g. prioritizing video advertisements over text ones prior user interactions with the advertisements e.g. prioritizing advertisements with higher interacting rate and contexts of the augmented keyword e.g. prioritizing advertisements from retailers or service providers having branches near a geographical context of the keyword and or the augmented web page or geographic locations of a substantial portion of viewers of the web page .

Further specific sequences may be set for specific keywords and or parties e.g. content providers advertisers users . For example if the keyword s is a music artist or band album name the method may make available his songs e.g. playback through an embedded music player on the top layer and other resources on lower layers. As another example if the keyword s is a location name e.g. Yellowstone National Park the method may make available the relevant map e.g. MapQuest Map on the top layer. As noted above the resources made available through the layered augmentation need not to be advertisements and can be related contents such as related articles videos images music to name only a few. For example a content provider may specify that the layered augmentations in its web pages make available a set of links to its other relevant web pages e.g. within the same website where the keyword s being augmented is cross indexed.

In one embodiment viewers can set their preferences to determine a preferred sequence for the layered augmentation. For example a viewer may prefer video advertisements while another may disfavor them e.g. due to bandwidth constrains at receiving device . As a result the method may place video advertisements higher on a sequence for the first viewer while not consider video advertisements for augmentation for the second viewer. Viewer preferences can be stored in a database such as the reference database along with other viewer related data e.g. profile data .

The method transmits the relevant advertisements to the client computer for display. In one embodiment the method retrieves the advertisements from an advertisement database and transmits them to the client web browser or the client computer for display. Alternatively the method may transmit references of the advertisements e.g. their URLs to the client web browser for retrieval.

In one embodiment the method generates computer code hereinafter called the advertisement code to facilitate user interaction with the advertisements. Similar to the client code the advertisement code can be in any computer language such as JavaScript. The advertisement code may display the relevant advertisements in a multi layered dialog box or popup box when the viewer moves a pointer over the activated keyword. The method transmits the generated advertisement code along with the related advertisements to the client web browser. In one embodiment the advertisement code is a part of the client code and is integrated in the augmented web page when the page is generated

The client web browser displays the relevant advertisements in a layered dialog box proximate to the activated keywords or the position where the mouse over is occurring as an in page overlay. In one embodiment the client web browser utilizes the advertisement code to display the advertisements in a multi layered dialog box. The advertisements are displayed according to their sequence. In one embodiment only the top advertisement is displayed and the lower ranked advertisements are represented by selectable tabs. An example process of the operation of the advertisement code and the client code is described in detail below with respect to .

Referring now to a flowchart illustrating an example process or method of the client code and or the advertisement code. As illustrated the method determines whether a pointer is positioned over an augmented keyword the activated keyword and if so sets the primary advertisement as the active advertisement and displays the active advertisement in a multi layered dialog box overlaying the augmented web page in a position proximate to the activated keyword or the mouse over. The multi layered dialog box also displays multiple selectable e.g. clickable tabs representing the lower layers. The viewer can select a tab to request the multi layered dialog box to display the corresponding layer. If the user selected a tab the method sets the advertisement corresponding to the selected layer as the active advertisement and displays it in place of the previously displayed advertisement.

The viewer can also interact with the currently displayed advertisement by selecting the advertisement. If the viewer selects the advertisement the method responds to the user selection based on the nature of the user selection and the configuration of the advertisement. For example if the user clicks on the active advertisement the method redirects the web browser to a web page related to the active advertisement. Alternatively if the user drags a scrollbar displayed on the dialog box the method displays different portions of the active advertisement as the user drags along the scrollbar. In one embodiment if the viewer moves the pointer away from the activated keyword and or the multi layered dialog box for an extended period of time the method hides the dialog box.

Referring back to in one embodiment rather than displaying multiple advertisements the method displays multiple aspects or portions of the same advertisement in the multi layered dialog box. For example the multi layered dialog box may display an image and brief description of a product and present two tabs one for user reviews and the other for playback of a television advertisement of the product. The viewer may interact with the advertisement through the multi layered dialog box without having to navigate away from and otherwise leave the current web page the viewer is interacting with in the web browser. For example if the advertisement contains video the multi layered dialog box may overlay the video with video controls e.g. forward rewind play pause volume etc. . The multi layered dialog box may also provide functional resources such as web searches enabling viewers to conduct web searches and or review search results without leaving the augmented web page.

The method tracks the received requests the advertisements displays and or the user s interactions with the advertisements. These activities may be logged in a database e.g. the reference database or reported to another device or person e.g. via electronic mail .

The methods described above with respect to are illustrated below in an example together with accompanying screenshots in . Initially the augmentation server retrieves a web page for augmentation. The web page may contain textual content of any subject. shows an example of the web page as displayed in Microsoft Internet Explorer . As shown in the web page is retrieved from website www.computing.net and contains a paragraph about computer virus.

The augmentation server reads the web page for keywords. The augmentation server identifies the keyword security for layered augmentation. The augmentation server locates a piece of reference data matching the keyword security and determines a context of computer security for the keyword . The piece of reference data includes an advertisement category for computer security services. The augmentation server generates an association of the keyword security and the located piece of reference data.

The augmentation server augments the web page by generating an intelligent tag encoding the generated association and integrating the intelligent tag in an augmented web page . The augmentation server also includes in the augmented web page JavaScript code client code that captures user interactions with the augmented keyword .

A web browser running on a client computer retrieves the augmented web page and displays it to a user e.g. responding to the user entering an URL of the web page or in the address bar of the web browser . illustrates a screenshot of the augmented web page as displayed on an Internet Explorer web browser after it is retrieved by the browser. It is noted that in the augmented keyword is displayed in a double underline style to distinguish from conventional hyperlinks that are single underlined.

Subsequently the user may move a pointer e.g. controlled by a mouse stylus or touchpad over the double underlined augmented keyword the activated augmented keyword . This user action is also referred to as a mouse over. Detecting the mouse over the embedded JavaScript code the client code in the augmented web page or the web browser generates an intelligent tag request that uniquely identifies the activated augmented keyword and or the related context and transmits the request to the augmentation server . The augmentation server receives the request retrieves stored association of the keyword and determines relevant advertisements by searching for advertisements corresponding to the keyword and or the related context in an advertising database. In the present example the augmentation server determines that an advertisement for Cisco security center is the relevant advertisement associated with the augmented keyword .

The augmentation server determines a sequence of various parts of the Cisco advertisement and or other relevant advertisements. In the present example the augmentation server determines that a description of the Cisco security center ranks top in the sequence followed by its customer reviews and a list of competing services.

The augmentation server transmits the related advertisement s back to the web browser for display. The augmentation server also transmits JavaScript code advertisement code that enables layered representation of the transmitted advertisements.

The web browser or the advertisement code displays the received advertisement s as an overlay in a multi layered dialog box in proximity to the keyword or the location where the mouse over occurred. As illustrated in the user has moved a mouse pointer over the keyword . As a result the web browser receives advertisements related to the keyword security and displays them in a multi layered dialog box proximate to the pointer.

As illustrated the multi layered dialog box displays an advertisement about CISCO security center. On the bottom of the multi layered dialog box are two tabs labeled Click to view customer review and Click to view alternative services respectively. Note that this is consistent with the sequence of the advertisements and or advertisement portions determined by the augmentation server . The user can navigate the advertisements within the multi layered dialog box by clicking the labeled tabs. The user can also visit the corresponding advertiser s web page by clicking the advertisement. While the user navigates within the multi layered dialog box the augmented web page remains as the current web page displayed in the client web browser. The user can quickly resume browsing the rest of the augmented web page .

As illustrated in when the user clicks or mouse over the tab labeled Click to view customer review the multi layered dialog box displays customer reviews for Cisco security center. It is noted that the label on the tab representing customer review changes to Click to hide customer review. The user can click the tab to resume viewing the previous advertisement for Cisco security center.

As illustrated in when the user clicks the Cisco security center advertisement the advertisement code redirects the client web browser to the advertiser s web page in this case a web page related to Cisco security center.

Referring now to an embodiment of an environment and systems for providing a plurality of augmented content and related services. In brief overview an ad server platform delivers a plurality of services such an in text services interest ads and related content services. The ad server platform may include a context engine an interested engine a campaign selection engine and or an advert resolution engine. The ad server may include or further include any embodiments of the augmentation server described herein.

The ad server platform may comprise any combination of modules applications programs libraries scripts or any other form of executable instructions executing on one or more servers. The ad server platform may provide services directed to advertisers to reach a plurality of users across a plurality of publisher websites such as content providers . The services of the ad server platform may combine the precise word targeting with delivery of rich media and video content. The ad server platform may provide services directed to publishers to received additional advertising revenue and real estate with adding more clutter on their web sites. The ad server platform provides a user controlled environment allowed the user to view augmented content such as advertising only when these choose to via mouse interaction over a relevant word of interest a keyword. As such an ad impression may be pre qualified in that a user must choose to view the ad by moving their mouse over or clicking on a word or phrase of interest. This may be referred to as user initiation impressions.

The ad server platform may provide in text advertising services . In text services reads web pages and hooks words and word phrases dynamically and in real time. The hooked words may be linked or hyperlinked to augmented content in any manner. In one embodiments the words are double underlined but any type of indicator may be used such as a single underline or an icon. In some embodiments the code for in text services is installed by publishers into their sites and does not require any additional code adware or spyware to be downloaded or uploaded by a user. When a user mouses over or clicks on hooked e.g. double underlined word or phrase the code display a user interface overlay sometimes referred to as a tooltip on the web page and near the hooked word or phrase.

The ad server platform may provide interest ad services . The interest ad services identifies words of interest within a web page to deliver advertisements that are related to these words of interest. The interest ad service may identify the words on the page to analyze those words to determine which words are core or central to that page. These set of core word are keywords to identify one or more ad campaigns relevant to those keywords and the user s interests. This may minimize wasted impressions and deliver and advertising experience that relates more directly to the user s interest.

The ad server platform may provide related content services . The related content services may provide create or generate an automated linking system that conveniently delivers relevant additional content from the same or different publishes in the form of videos articles and information. The related content services may read web pages and hook words and word phrases dynamically and in real time. The hooked words may point or navigate the user through content related to the hooked words available through a website network or portal. For example the related content service may link a word on the page to re circulate the user through additional content such as other web pages of the publisher. In some embodiments the related content service may automatically mirror the hyperlink style of a publisher s editorial links or already provided hyperlinks. The related content services may generate or add an icon such as search icon that indicates that augmented content is returned or available.

In further details the ad server platform may comprise one or more context engines . The context engine may comprise any type and form of executable instructions executing on a device such as a server. The context engine may comprise any functions logic or operations for analyzing content of a web page. The context engine may use any type and form of semantics based algorithm to determine the meaning of the keyword relevant to the content of the page the user the web site the publisher and or the campaign. The context engine may determine the intended structure and meaning of words phrases sentences or text in the content of the page. The context engine may analyze the text in the content to determine any characters text strings words terms and or phrases or any combinations thereof that match or correspond to any characters text strings words terms and or phrases or any combinations thereof of any one or more campaigns. The context engine may analyze the content of the page for keywords from campaigns targeted at the web site publisher or content provider of the page. The context engine may determine any type of metrics on the content of the web page and of keywords of targeted campaigns of the web page. The context engine may use any type and form of algorithm to determine a keyword relevancy weight such as by location of the keyword the frequency of the keywords and the length of the keyword. For example for location weighting those keywords that appear earlier in the content may be considered more relevant than those that appear later. For frequency relevancy the more a keyword is repeated within the content the more relevant the keyword may be considered. For length relevancy the more words in a keywords the less generic the keyword may be and the more relevant the keyword may be considered.

The ad server platform may comprise one or more interest engines . The interest engine may comprise any type and form of executable instructions executing on a device such as a server. The interest engine may comprise any functions logic or operations for tracking and storing user information and or behavior to a behavioral profile. The interest engine may track and store the user s location operating system and or browser. The interest engine may track a predetermined number of keywords a user has seen over a certain time period. The interest engine may track a predetermined number of relevant terms a user has viewed over a certain time period. The interest engine may track the a predetermined number of searches for which a user clicked a search result and landed on the content providers web site or web. The interest engine may store the recent search terms and or recently viewed terms into a behavioral profile for the user. The ad server platform context engine and or interest engine may change the weighting of keywords in content of a page responsive to any information stored in any behavioral profiles. For example The ad server platform context engine and or interest engine may use a multiplier to upweight or downweight one or more keywords.

The ad server platform may comprise one or more campaign selection engines . The campaign selection engine may comprise any type and form of executable instructions executing on a device such as a server. The campaign selection engine may comprise any functions logic or operations for selecting or matching a campaign to a set of one or more keywords identified and or weights for content of a page. The campaign selection engine may identify and select a campaign from a plurality of campaigns. The campaign selection engine may identify and select a first set of campaigns from a plurality of campaigns that meet a first threshold or criteria. From the first set of campaigns the campaign selection engine may order or rank these campaigns using any type and form of algorithms. In some embodiments the campaign selection engine may provide a campaign level relevance of the keywords. The campaign selection engine may determine a relevance number or weighting for each campaign relative to the weighted keywords. In some embodiments each campaign may provide a priority to keywords web pages or publishers. In some embodiments each campaign may provide a relevance weighting to keywords web pages or publishers. The campaign selection engine may also comprise any set of one or more rules or restrictions for either changing the ranking keeping a campaign or removing the campaign. Based on applying these rules and or restrictions the campaign selection engine selects from the first set of one or more companies a second set of one or more campaigns to use for augmenting the identified keywords on the web page.

The ad server platform may comprise one or more advert resolution engines . The advert resolution engine may comprise any type and form of executable instructions executing on a device such as a server. The advert resolution engine may comprise any functions logic or operations for resolving the advertisement to use for a hook. For each advertisement the advert resolution engine may determine whether the advertisement is a backfill or to be obtained from a backfill network. If the advertisement is backfill the advert resolution engine calls or communicates with the backfill provider s servers. For example the advert resolution engine may include one or more handlers designed and constructed to communicate with a particular backfill provider. When an advertisement is received from the backfill provider or when the advertisement if not coming from a backfill the advert resolution engine may perform any type and form of filtering on the advertisement such as for making sure the ad meets any rules or restrictions for content. The advert resolution engine includes a placer for selecting an instance of a keyword to hook with the advertisement. When the advert resolution engine has checked for backfill filters the advertisement and selected an instance to hook for all the intended advertisements the advert resolution engine may hook the keywords. The advert resolution engine may perform these operations for content other than advertisements such as other types of augmented content.

Referring now to diagrams of embodiments of the functionality and operations of the ad server platform are depicted. depicts an embodiment of high level overview of the process from the client perspective. depicts an embodiment of contextual targeting. depicts an embodiment of keyword relevancy weighting. depicts an embodiment of behavioral targeting. depicts a further embodiment of behavioral targeting. depicts an embodiment of further weighting based on behavioral targeting. depicts and embodiment of campaign selection.

Referring to at step a user on a client requests a page from a publisher such as a web page of a content provider . At step the client receives the page and the browser loads the page. The user may start browsing the web page. At step an agent on the page such as a script starts an analysis in the background. The agent may be triggered upon loading of the web page or start the analysis upon receipt and or loading of the web page. The agent may communicate with the ad server platform to perform any of the services of in text advertising related content or interest ads. For example the agent may send content from the page for the ad server platform to analyze. In the background of the user viewing or browsing the web page the ad server platform may analyze the page find relevant campaigns filter campaigns and generate a response to the agent for hooking the keywords and identifying or delivering the augmented content. The ad server platform may not analyze pages based on filtering certain URLs. The ad server platform may analyze the content received from the agent perform any of the services described herein and send the keywords to hook and the corresponding augmented content such as advertisements from a campaign. At step the analysis is completed and the user sees links to keywords such as double underlined keywords. As described herein the user may mouse over or click the hooked keyword and have the augmented content displayed.

Referring now to an embodiment of contextual targeting is depicted. This contextual targeted may be performed by the ad server platform and performed in the background while the page is being loaded and browsed viewed by the user. The ad server platform receives page content from the client such as via an agent. The ad server platform analyzes the page to match keywords to campaigns targeted to the web site page or URL. In some embodiments the ad server platform finds all campaigns targeted to this site finds all keywords in those campaigns and forms or generates a site keyword list for this site. The ad server platform may match the keywords from the site keyword list to keywords in the content from the page. The ad server platform may assign each matching keyword a relevancy weight.

Referring now to an embodiment of assigning a relevancy weight to each keyword to provide contextual targeting is depicted. The ad server platform may provide a relevancy weight to each keyword of the site keyword list matching content of the web page. The ad server platform may use any type and form of metrics or combinations of metrics to determine a relevancy weight. In some embodiments the ad server platform uses a location frequency and or length metric to assign a relevancy weight to the matching keyword. The location relevancy weight may comprise an indicator or multiplier to those keywords that appear near the beginning or top of the web page relevant to those keywords that appear near the end of bottom of the web page. The frequency relevancy weight may comprise an indicator or multiplier to those keywords that appear more times on the same page or content than other keywords. The length relevancy weight may comprise an indicator or multiplier to those keywords that have more words in the keywords than single keyword or keywords with less words.

Each type of metric relevancy weight may be weighted the same or differently. Each metric relevancy weight may have it owns multiplier or factor that scales the weight for the keyword up or down according to the relevancy. The keyword may be up weighted and or down weighted one or more times by each of the metric relevancy weights. A keyword relevancy weight may be up weighted by one metric relevancy weight while downloaded by another relevancy weight. For example a keyword may be repeated several times and be upweighted or have a high multiplier based on the frequency relevancy weight while only found and repeated near the end of the page for a down weighting or low multiplier from the location relevancy weight. In some embodiments a keyword may get a low relevancy weighting from each of the metric relevancy weightings. In some embodiments a keyword may get a high relevancy weighting from each of the metric relevancy weightings. In some embodiments a keyword may get a combination of low and high relevancy weightings from different relevancy weightings.

Referring now to an embodiment of applying behavioral targeting is depicted. The ad server platform may identify track and store formation about a user s behavior in a behavioral profile. The behavioral profile may comprise a profile for one user or a plurality of users. Each of the user s profile data may be identified tracked and managed via unique user identifiers. In some embodiments the ad server platform may track a predetermined number of search terms such as 5 that the user last searched. In some embodiments the ad server platform may track a predetermined number of search terms for each search engine such as the Google search engine Microsoft Bing search engine Yahoo search or Ask search engine. In some embodiments the ad server platform may track a predetermined number of search terms for each search engine across a combination of search engines. In some embodiments the ad server platform tracks and stores those search terms for which the user clicked a search result. In some embodiments the ad server platform tracks and stores those search terms for which the user clicked a search result. In some embodiments the ad server platform tracks and stores those search terms for which the user clicked a search result and landed on a web page of a predetermined content provider or publisher.

Referring to a further embodiment of behavioral targeting is depicted. The ad server platform may track and store in the behavioral profile of a user a history of terms the user has seen over a predetermined time period. In some embodiments the ad server platform tracks terms has a user has viewed on a web page. In some embodiments the ad server platform tracks terms the user has selected from a search or interacted with during the user s viewing history. In some embodiments the ad server platform tracks terms of one or more search results from which the user has clicked through. In some embodiments the ad server platform tracks viewed terms over a predetermined time period. In some embodiments the ad server platform tracks viewed terms over a start of a behavioral profile of the user to current time.

The ad server platform may use any of the search terms and or viewed terms from the behavioral profile to make a change to the relevancy weightings of the matching keywords. Those matching keywords that the use has searched or viewed previously will have their relevancy weightings increased or upweighted via a behavioral targeting multiplier. In some embodiments the ad server platform may use a combination of recently searched and viewed terms to apply a multiplier to each matching keyword. The ad server platform may use any temporal threshold to determine which search terms and or viewed terms to use for determining a multiplier to the relevancy weightings of the matching keywords. The ad platform may apply higher behavioral targeting multipliers to those keywords that were recently viewed and or recently search within a predetermined time history. The ad platform may apply no or lower behavioral targeting multipliers to those keywords that were not recently viewed and or not recently search within the predetermined time history.

As a result of using behavioral profile data and behavioral targeting multipliers as depicted in the ad server platform modifies the relevancy of the matching keywords from the site keyword list. The matching keywords are assigned a first relevancy weighting from the contextual targeting and are modified or changed to a second relevancy weighting from the behavioral targeting. In some embodiments the ad server platform maintains both the contextual targeting relevancy weightings and the behavioral targeting relevancy weighting for each matching keyword. In some embodiments the ad server platform maintains a single relevancy weighting keyword comprising the behavioral targeting multipliers up weighting or down weighting to the relevancy weighting applied by the contextual targeting.

Referring to an embodiment of campaign selection is depicted. In some embodiments the results of contextual and or behavioral targeting are used as input to the campaign selection engine. The ad server platform may use the relevancy weightings of the matching keywords from the site keyword list to determine which campaigns may be applicable to these matching keywords. Those campaigns not having keywords corresponding to any of the matching keywords may be dropped from consideration. In some embodiments those campaigns not having a number of keywords corresponding to the matching keywords within a predetermined threshold may be dropped from consideration. In some embodiments those campaigns having one or more keywords corresponding to a predetermined number of the top relevancy weighted keywords may be identified for consideration.

The ad server platform may order the list of campaigns under consideration using any type and form of algorithm. For example the ad server platform may rank the campaigns based on having matching keywords with the highest combined relevancy weightings. the ad server platform may rank the campaigns based on having the highest number of matching keywords. The ad server platform may rank the campaigns based on a combination of the highest combined relevancy weightings and the highest number of matching keywords. The ad server platform may also order campaigns based on any type of priorities assigned to the campaigns. Some campaigns may have a high order of priority to deliver or serve than other campaigns.

The ad server platform may selected the campaigns to deliver from the ordered or ranked list of campaigns. The ad server platform may further restrict the selection based on any rules or policies of the ad server platform the publisher or the campaign. For example the campaign or publisher may have rules restricting the serving of a campaign directed to certain users times of days locations browsers or content. Once the selection of the one or more campaigns is made the ad server platform generates a list of campaign keywords to hook and transmits these keywords to the agent of the client. The ad server platform may provide to the agent information on the publisher campaign tooltip user interface overlay and or augmented content with or corresponding to the keyword.

Referring now to embodiments of systems and methods for delivering augmented content are depicted. depicts an embodiment of a system for analyzing content of a page to determine keywords to augment for one or more campaigns. depicts an embodiment of augmented content delivered to a web page of a client. depicts embodiments of a method for analyzing and hooking keywords on a web page of a client.

In brief overview of an embodiment of a system for augmented keywords on a web page is depicted. A client communicates with one or more content providers such as publishers via network s . The client may include a browser that receives loads and display content in the form of web page or pages from the one or more contents providers. The client also communicates with the augmentation server or ad server . The page being loaded or loaded by the browser comprises an agent . The agent may communication page content to the server for analysis and received from the server keywords corresponding campaigns and or augmented content. The keyword matcher of server may perform keyword matching such as using site keyword list on the page content received from the agent . The keyword ranker ranks the keywords to provide ranked keywords . The campaign selection engine selects campaigns based on the ranked keywords .

In further detail the browser may comprise any type and form of executable instructions for accessing information resources via a network such as the Internet. The browser may include any user agent or software for retrieving presenting accessing and or traversing information resources or documents on the world wide web or a network . The browser may include any functionality for loading running processing and or displaying on a computer screen information written in HTML XML javascript java flash or any other language or a script used for web pages. Browser may include any functionality for displaying any type and form of content or features presented by web page or transmitted content provider . Browser may include any functionality for enabling a user to interact or interface with a web page. Browser may provide functionality for displaying advertisement information within a web page presented or displayed on a computer screen of client computer . In some embodiments a browser is any version of Internet Explorer web browser manufactured by Microsoft Corp. In other embodiments the browser is any version of the Chrome web browser manufactured by Google Inc. In other embodiments the browser is any version of Firefox web browser distributed by the Mozilla Foundation. In further embodiments the browser is any version of the Opera browser by Opera Software ASA.

The page may include any type and form of content processable by any embodiment of the browser . The page may be stored on any number of servers such as content providers and may be accessed and or loaded by any web browser such as browser . The page may be a web page. The page be a document The page may be a file. The page may any resource accessible via a network or a world wide web by a networked device such as a client computer . The page may be identified by a URL. The page may include content from a URL. The page may include any type and form of executable instructions such as scripts AJAX. The page may include any type and form of graphics and or text. The page may include any type and form of media such as video or audio media. The page may include content having text words keywords and links or hyperlinks to other web pages or web sites.

Page may include any document which may be accessed loaded viewed and or edited by a browser and displayed on a computer screen. Page may include any content which may be presented via hypertext markup language extensible markup language java javascript or any other language or script for preparing web pages. Web page may include any type and form of components for adding animation or interactivity to a web page such as Adobe Flash by Adobe Systems Inc. The page may include functionality for displaying advertisements such as advertisements from enterprises government companies and firms. A web page may include any number of ad spaces providing space or arrangement within web page for displaying advertisement.

The client browser or page may include an agent . The agent may include any type and form of executable instructions executable by the browser and or client. In some embodiments the agent comprises a script such as JavaScript or JSON JavaScript Notation . In some embodiments the agent may comprise any type and form of plug in add on or component to or of browser . In some embodiments the agent may comprise any type of application program service process or task executable by the client.

The agent may be included in the page when transmitted by the content provider. In some embodiments the page includes the agent in script form as part of the content of the page. In some embodiments the page includes a URL to the script such as URL pointing to or identifying a resource or script of the servers . In some embodiments the agent is loaded by the browser. In some embodiments the agent is executed by the browser upon retrieval and or loading of the page . In some embodiments the page includes instructions to the browser or client to obtain and load or install the agent.

The agent may include any logic function or operations to interface to or communicate with any portion of the augmentation server or ad server platform . The agent may include any logic function or operations to provide any of the services or functionality of in text interest ads and or related content . The agent may include any logic function or operations to identify collect and transmit content from the page to the server . The agent may identify collect and transmit any and or all text in content of the page. The agent may identify collect and transmit any and or all text from any pages or URLs referred to by the page. The agent may transmit any embodiments of this page content to the server .

The agent may comprise any logic function or operations to receive keywords campaigns and or augmented content from the server . The agent may comprise any logic function or operations to hook keywords identified in the page content. The agent may hook keywords by modifying the keyword in the page content to have an indicator such as double underlined or an icon. Hooking a keyword refers to making a keyword on the page have a predetermined visual appearance to indicate that interactivity would or may occur by the user interacting with the keyword and instrumenting the page or keyword to perform the interactivity responsive to the user interaction. The indicator may provide a visual indication that the keyword in the text is linked or hyperlinked. In some embodiment the agent may link or hyperlink the keyword. The agent may hook the keyword to include a function script or executable instruction to take an action responsive to a mouse over mouse click or other user interaction. The agent may hook the keyword to display a user interface overlay or tooltip such as depicted in . The agent may hook the keyword to display a related advertisement or augmented content on the page as also depicted in .

The keyword matcher of the server may comprise any type and form of executable instructions executable on a device. The keyword matcher may comprise any logic function or operations to identify matches between one data set and another data set. In some embodiments the keyword matcher may identify matches between keywords of campaigns with page content. In some embodiments the keyword matcher may identify whole or complete matches. In some embodiments the keyword matcher may identify partial or incomplete matches. In some embodiments the keyword matcher may identify partial or incomplete matches within a predetermined threshold. In some embodiments the keyword matcher may identify both complete and incomplete matches. The keyword matcher may perform any of the keyword operations described in connection with . The keyword matcher may be included as part of the context engine interest engine or campaign selection engine of the ad server platform.

The keyword ranker of the server may comprise any type and form of executable instructions executable on a device. The keyword ranker may comprise any logic function or operations to rank a set of data responsive to one or more criteria. The keyword ranker may comprise any logic function or operations to rank keywords matched to page content. The keyword ranker may comprise any logic function or operations to provide a weighting to a keyword based on any metrics of the keyword such as location frequency and length. The keyword ranker may comprise any logic function or operations to provide a weighting to a keyword based on relevancy to the site. The keyword ranker may comprise any logic function or operations to provide a weighting to a keyword based on relevancy to a publisher or content provider. The keyword ranker may comprise any logic function or operations to provide a weighting to a keyword based on relevancy to a campaign. The keyword ranker may comprise any logic function or operations to provide a weighting to a keyword based on relevancy to a user or behavioral profile. The keyword ranker may be included as part of the context engine interest engine or campaign selection engine of the ad server platform.

The keyword ranker may perform any of the keyword ranking and or weighting operations described in connection with . An output or result of the keyword ranker may be ranked keywords . The ranked keywords may include any type of object data structure or data stored in memory or to storage. The ranked keywords may include contextually targeted ranked keywords as described in connection with . The ranked keywords may include behavioral targeting ranked keywords as described in connection with . The ranked keywords may include any combination of contextually targeted ranked keywords and behavioral targeting ranked keywords. The ranked keywords may be site specific. The ranked keywords may be campaign specific. The ranked keywords may be publisher specific. The ranked keywords may be based on any combination of site campaign and or publisher.

The campaign selection engine may interface or communicate with any of the keyword matcher the keyword ranker and or ranked keywords. The campaign selection engine may access read or process campaigns . The campaigns may be stored in any type and form of database or file system. The campaigns may include information identifying keywords for the campaigns and augmented content to deliver for those keywords. The campaigns may include any type and form of content URLS scripts video audio advertisements media text graphics data information etc. to provide as augmented content with the keywords. The campaigns may include any type and form of URLs advertisements media text graphics etc. to provide as augmented content with the keywords. The campaigns may identify or provide any desired user interface overlay tooltip or content therein. The campaigns may be organized by publisher. Each publisher may have a plurality of campaigns.

The campaign selection engine selects the campaign to deliver with the page based on analysis of the page content from the keyword matcher keyword ranker and ranked keywords. The campaign selection engine may comprise any type and form of logic functions or operations to identify and select one or more campaigns from a list of contender or candidate campaigns based on any criteria or algorithm. The campaign selection engine may select those campaigns that best match or correspond to the top ranked keywords. The campaign selection engine may select those campaigns that match or correspond to a predetermined number of ranked keywords. The campaign selection engine may select those campaigns that match or correspond to a predetermined set of ranked keywords. The campaign selection engine may select those campaigns that match or correspond to the ranked keywords in accordance with a priority assigned to the campaigns or publisher. The campaign selection engine may exclude or include campaigns based on the logic or criteria of any rules or filters.

Responsive to the campaign selection engine the server may transmit to the agent identification of one or more keywords to augment on the page and corresponding campaigns for those keywords see . The server may transmit to the agent any script data or information to provide or facilitate hooking of the keywords on the page and displaying the campaign responsive to user interaction with the keyword. The server may transmit to the agent the indicator or identification of the indicator to use for a hooked keyword. The server may transmit to the agent the type and form of user interface overlay to display when a user mouse over or mouse click occurs for the keyword. The server may transmit to the agent a reference to or identification of any of augmented content to display when a mouse over or mouse click occurs for the keyword. The server may transmit to the agent the augmented content such as the advertisement to display when a mouse over or mouse click occurs for the keyword.

The agent may receive the information from the server and modify the page or content of the agent to perform the hooking of the keywords to instrument the hooked keywords and or deliver the campaign responsive to the keyword. The agent may perform any of the agent s logic functions or operations while the web page is being loaded. The agent may perform any of the agent s logic functions or operations while the user views or browsers the web page. The agent may perform any of the agent s logic functions or operations in the background to the user viewing or browsing the page.

Referring now to embodiments of augmented content delivered with a corresponding keyword is depicted. In brief overview the page may include an augmented keyword in the text of the content e.g. see double underlined Augmented Keyword next to in text of content . When a user interacts with the augmented keywords a user interface overlay also referred to as tooltip may be displayed. This user interface overlay may deliver or provide the campaign corresponding to the keyword. Responsive to user interaction with the keyword the agent may display related advertisements such as via a banner ad or augmented content . The related advertisements and or augmented content may be displayed in connection with the tooltip without the tooltip or instead of the tooltip.

Any of the content on page may include any embodiments of the advertisements and or augmented contented provided and discussed above in connections with . The tooltip may be part of a multi layered augmentation content or advertisement unit. The tooltip may provide any one or more URLs to access related websites.

The user interface overlay referred to as a tooltip may include any type and form of web beacon . In some embodiments the tooltip may include a plurality of web beacons. The beacon may be used for tracking a user s usage and or interactions with the tooltip. The beacon may identify or track a length of time of any user interaction with the tooltip and or augments keyword or inline text. The beacon may identify a URL or tracking system to register or send communications regarding the user interaction. In some embodiments a web beacon may be designed and constructed for a predetermined tracking system.

A web beacon may be an object that is embedded in the tooltip that is not visible to the user. Sometimes beacons are referred to as web beacons web bugs tracking bugs pixel tags or clear gifs. Web beacons may be used to understand the behavior of users who frequent designated web pages. A web beacon permits a third party to track and or collect various types of information. For instance a web beacon may be used to determine who is reading a webpage when the webpage is read how long the page was viewed the type of browser used to view the webpage information from previously set cookies and from what computer the webpage is accessed.

The tooltip may be incorporated integrated or presented with any one or more of related advertisements related video and or real time statistics . The tooltip may include an URL to any web page or resource such as additional content search results or media. Although the tooltip is illustrated each with a related advertisement related video and related statistics the tooltip may be presented with one of these related content or a plurality of these related contents. Although this related content is illustrated in a location size and position in relation to the tooltip the related advertisements related video and or real time statistics may be arranged organized or presented in any manner.

The tooltip may also include one or URLs such as a hypertexted URL or link to any other page or content. In some embodiments the hypertexted link comprises a URL of a landing page of a web site. In some embodiments the hypertexted link comprises a URL of a web page providing search results directly from the search engine. In another embodiment the hypertexted link provides a link to a recommend or most relevant search result. In other embodiments the hypertexted link provides a link to run the search query on a second search engine. The hypertexted link may bring the user to a landing page of the search results of the second search engine.

The related advertisements may include any type and form of advertisement related to the augmented content or inline text or otherwise related to the keyword. In some embodiments the related advertisements are advertisements provided as described in connection with any of the embodiments of the . In some embodiments the related advertisements are advertisements provided by a search engine such as in relation to and based on the search query. In other embodiments the related advertisements are provided by any type and form of ad network via the server and or search engine.

The related video may include any type and form of video media related to the augmented content or inline text or otherwise related to the keyword. In some embodiments the related videos are advertisements provided as augmented content as described in connection with any of the embodiments of the . In some embodiments the related videos are videos provided by a search engine such as in relation to and based on a search query. In other embodiments the related videos are provided by any type and form of video service such as YouTube.com or iTunes.com. In another embodiment the related videos are videos available to the user via a user accessible storage or video management system.

The real time statistics may include any type and form of statistics related to the augmented content or inline text or otherwise related to the keyword. In some embodiments the real time statistics may be any statistics related to the person or entity of the search. For example if the augmented keyword is a sports team the real time statistics may include current or recent game scores and or standings of the team. In another example if the augmented keyword is related to the weather the real time statistics may include a current weather forecast. In one example if the augmented keyword is related to a musician the real time statistics may include statistics on music downloads album sales and top music chart location.

Referring now to embodiments of a method for augmented content of a keyword of a web page being loaded into a browser is depicted. In brief overview at step an agent of the browser sends page data to server upon or while loading a web page. At step the server analyzes the page data and reduced the page data set. At step the server performs content filtering on page and keywords to match to corresponding campaigns. At step the server performs ranking of keywords. At step the server matches the ranked keywords to keywords of each campaign. At step the server selects top matching keywords and their campaigns. At step the server sends to the agent the selected keywords and their campaigns and may provide the agent tooltips and or augmented content. At step the agent hooks the keywords identified by the server. At step the agent detects user interaction such as mouse over or clock of keywords and displays augmented content such as a tooltip.

In further details at step the agent may be executed by the browser upon or while loading the web page. The browser may retrieve the agent via a URL identified by the page. In some embodiments the page transmitted by the server includes the agent. The agent may comprise script places or arranged at or near the top page to be executed by the browser. In some embodiments the agent may be triggered by any load events or APIs of the browser. The agent may be executed prior to content of the web page being loaded or displayed. The agent may be executed prior to the retrieval of any URLS of the page. The agent may be executed prior to completion of loading of the web page by the browser.

The agent may identify gather and aggregate data from the page. The agent many identify all text portions of the web page. The agent many identify those elements of the page that contain text. The agent may identify text from a predetermined set of elements of the page. The agent may identify text from HTML XML or other page languages. The agent may identify text from the body of an HTTP portion of the page. The agent may perform text recognition on any portion of the page or any element of the page. The agent may identify text from any URLS or other content referred to or loaded by the page. The agent may identify any other date of the page including headers. For example the agent may identify the browser type the user location IP addresses from the content of the page or from any of the network packets used for communicating the page. In some embodiments the agents performs analysis and identified metrics for the page date such as text location frequency length and repeatability.

The agent may gather the identified page data text or otherwise and or any page metrics and transmits the page data and or page metrics to the server . In some embodiments the agent transmits the page data together in one transaction with the server. In some embodiments the agent transmits portions of page data in a series of transactions with the server. In some embodiments the agent transmits the page data using any type and form of protocol. In some embodiments the agent transmits the page data as a background process to the browser loading the page or the user browsing the page. In some embodiments the agent transmits the page data while the browser is loading the page.

At step the server analyzes the page data and reduces the page data to a working set of page data to continue analysis. The server may remove a predetermined set of commons words such as a and the from the page data. In some embodiments the server may filer a predetermined set of words phrases terms or characters according to any filters rules or policies. In some embodiments the server may identify and correct any typos or other inadvertences with the page data. In some embodiments the server may perform any type and form of metrics on the page data. In some embodiments the server may identify location frequency repeatability of text on the page. In some embodiments the server may identify location frequency repeatability of text on the page data relative to other text on the page.

At step the server analyzes the text from the working set of page data to determine if there is any type and form of matching to any campaigns. In some embodiments the server performs any type and form of semantic matching to match keywords on the page semantically to concepts meanings categories subject matter and or keywords of campaigns. In some embodiments the server performs a phonetic match between keywords on the page to keywords of campaigns. In some embodiments the server performs a spelling match between keywords on the page to keywords of campaigns. In some embodiments the server performs content filtering on text words and portions of content around the keywords on the page to determine a context for the keywords and match that context to campaigns. In some embodiments the server performs content filtering on the page data to determine a category a sub category a topic subject matter or other information indicator and matches the same to any one or more campaigns.

In some embodiments the server may generate a set of keyword from campaigns targeted towards the site of the page or publisher of the page. The server may generate a site keyword list. The keyword matcher of the server may match keywords from a keyword list such as the site keyword list against text of the page data to identify keywords in the page data. In some embodiments the keyword matcher identifies multiple word phrase matches. In some embodiments the keyword matcher identifies partial word phrases. In some embodiments the keyword matcher identifies a number of times or the frequency for which a keyword is found in the page data. In some embodiments the keyword matcher identifies the location of the keyword in the page data and in further embodiments relative to other keywords or boundaries of the page such as top or bottom.

At step the server performs any type and form ranking of keywords of the page data identified by the keyword matcher. The keyword ranker may rank all of the matching keywords. The keyword rank may rank a predetermined number of keywords. The keyword ranker may rank the keywords according to any one or more metrics. The keyword ranker may rank the keywords according to any one or more criteria. The keyword ranker may rank each keywords by applying a weight to a value assigned to the keyword. The keyword ranker may provide any multipliers to a valued or weighted value of the keyword to increase or decrease the ranking of the keyword. The keyword ranker may rank the keywords on any type and form of scale which may be absolute or relative.

At step the server matches the ranked keywords to keywords of one or more campaigns. The keyword matcher ranker or campaign selection engine may compare the list of ranked keywords or any portions thereof to a list of keywords of one or more campaigns. In some embodiments the server identifies those campaigns that are contenders to be a selected for the campaign for this page. In some embodiments the server identifies those campaigns associated with or assigned to be a campaign targeted to site or publisher of the page. The server may match the ranked keywords against the identified campaigns. In some embodiments the server may match the ranked keywords against all campaigns. In some embodiments the server may change the ranking of the keywords based on results of matching the keywords from the campaigns.

At step the campaign selection engine selects a predetermined number of matching keywords and their campaigns. In some embodiments the campaign selection engine selects a predetermined number of top matching keywords and their campaigns. In some embodiments the campaign selection engine selects a number of top matching keywords and their campaigns corresponding to a number of matching keywords on the page. For example if there are five unique keywords on the page and each identified by a campaign the server may select five campaigns. In some embodiments the campaign selection engine may select one campaign for a plurality of corresponding matching keywords on the page.

In some embodiments the campaign selection engine may filter out campaigns based on any type and form of filter rules. The campaign selection engine may rank campaigns according to any type and form of ranking For example the campaign selection engine may prioritize campaigns according to clients volume importance spend budget historical campaign performance or any other desired criteria. The campaign selection engine may compare the ranked keywords to the ranked campaigns. The campaign selection engine may select any of the higher or highest ranked campaigns matching any of the higher or highest ranked keywords.

At step the server sends to the agent the selected keywords and their campaigns. Responsive to the campaign selection engine the server may send to the agent the list of keywords to augment or hook and their corresponding campaigns. In some embodiments the server sends a predetermined number of additional keywords to augment or hook in case the agent cannot hook or augment any one or more keywords in the list of keywords. In some embodiments the server sends an ordered list of keywords. The ordered list of keywords may identify a priority of augmentation or hooking to the agent.

The server may send any type and form of information to the agent on how to augment or hook a keyword what type of augmentation to use and identifying the form and content of the augmentation. In some embodiments the server sends to the agent publisher and campaign identifiers for the agent to obtain or identify the appropriate campaign for a keyword. In some embodiments the server sends the agent an indication of the visual indicator to use for the hooked keyword e.g. double underlined . In some embodiments the server sends the agent the executable instructions by which the keyword is hooked or for replacing the text of the keyword with a hooked keyword.

In some embodiments the server sends instructions for content construction and or display of the tooltip. In some embodiments the server sends a set of executable instructions providing the tooltip and or any portion thereof. In some embodiments the server sends a set of executable instructions providing the augmented content and or any portion thereof. In some embodiments the server sends a set of executable instructions providing any embodiments of the augmented content advertisements and or tooltip of . In some embodiments the server sends content for the tooltip to provide the campaign assigned to the keyword. In some embodiments the server sends one or more URLs referencing a campaign to be delivered via a web site. For example in some embodiments the server sends one or more URLS to advertisements to be delivered for the campaign. In some embodiments the server sends one or more scripts to agent to provide any of the above embodiments.

At step the agent hooks the identified keywords on the page The agent may replace each keyword in the identified list of keywords from the server with instructions or code to hook the keyword. The agent may have hyperlink or link the keyword to a set of code or executable instructions to display the tooltip augmented content or any embodiments of . The agent may use modify the keyword to provide any type and form of visual indicator e.g. double underlined or icon to indicate the keyword is user interactive hyperlinked or linked or otherwise hooked. The agent may modify the page to change the text to a liked or hooked text and to link or associated any forms of augmented content of to be displayed or provided via user interaction with the hooked text. The agent may modify the page or instrument the keyword to detect when a user interacts with the keyword in a certain way. The agent may include one or more event based functions that are trigged responsive to predetermined user interactions. For example the agent may modify the page or instrument the keyword to detect when a user mouses over the keyword clicks on the keyword right clicks on the keyword or left clicks on the keyword or otherwise selects any predetermined set of keystrokes or sequence of keystrokes.

At step the agent detects user interaction such as mouse over or click of a keyword on the page and displays augmented content such as a tooltip. The agent may detect when a mouse is over the keyword at any time. The agent may detect when a user has the cursor over the keyword. The agent may detect when a user has put focus on the keyword. The agent may detect when a mouse is over the keyword for a predetermined period of time. The agent may detect when a user highlights or selects a keyword. The agent may detect when the user left or right clicks on the keyword. The agent may detect when a user double clicks the keyword. The agent may detect when a user has put focus on the keyword and hit entered. The agent may detect any set of keystrokes with respect to the keyword.

Responsive to the detection the agent may display augmented content for example any of the forms depicted in . In some embodiments responsive to detecting a mouse over of the keyword the agent displays a tooltip delivering a campaign assigned to the keyword. In some embodiments responsive to detecting a click on the keyword the agent displays a tooltip delivering a campaign assigned to the keyword. Responsive to detection of the predetermined user interaction the agent may display augmented content of any form such as related videos in predetermined areas or space on the page. Responsive to detection of the predetermined user interaction the agent may display advertisements of any form in predetermined areas or space on the page.

In some embodiments the tooltip may remain displayed until the mouse is moved off of the keyword. In some embodiments the tooltip may remain displayed until the mouse is moved off of the keyword for a predetermined time. In some embodiments the tooltip may remain displayed until the mouse is moved off of the keyword until the user closes or exists the tooltip. In some embodiments if the user clicks on the keyword after the mouse over the tooltip remains displayed until the user closes or exits the tooltip. In some embodiments any augmented content may change as the user moves the focus or mouse over to another keyword. For example moving the mouse to a second keyword may cause a different advertisement to appear in a banner ad or may cause a new tooltip to be displayed or content of the current displayed tooltip to change.

The agent and may perform all or any of the steps of the method of in real time upon receipt and or loading of the page. For example the agent and the server may be designed and constructed to perform embodiments of steps through within a predetermined time while the page is being loaded by the browser. In some embodiments the agent and the server may perform embodiments of steps through in milliseconds for example within in 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 or 900 milliseconds or within 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 or 90 milliseconds or within 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 or 9 milliseconds or 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 or 0.9 milliseconds. The agent and the server may be designed and constructed to perform embodiments of steps through while the page is loading and before the page is completely loaded. The agent and the server may be designed and constructed to perform embodiments of steps through in the background while the pages is being loaded and or the user is browsing the loaded page.

Embodiments of the systems and methods described herein provide a solution for delivering ranked related media content for the platform s related content services . The related content service may generate new page views or windows such as user interface overlay windows to the users. The related content service may provide the users with navigational links and re circulate users through a website network or portal. The related content service may conveniently deliver relevant previews such as clips of videos articles and information related to one or more hyperlinked keywords on a web page. The related content service may automatically maintain or mirror the hyperlink style of a publisher s editorial links but also add an icon or indicator to indicate that related content has been returned. In some embodiments the icon or the indicator indicates that the related content is available for selection by the user. Embodiments of the related content service or the platform services may rank order and select a number of searched media to provide the more relevant video content of a web site portal or network to the user in relation to the hyperlinked keyword. In this manner the related content service is re circulating or providing previews of the higher ranked videos articles and information.

Referring to an embodiment of a system of providing related content to a keyword from a selected set of ranked content is depicted. In brief overview a browser received a web page from a content provider . Upon loading of the page by the browser an agent sends page data to the augmentation server for analysis. A related content engine analyzes the page data within a predetermined time threshold to dynamically provide in real time or near real time selected ranked content to the agent for display in space on the page for or in conjunction with one or more augmented or hooked keywords on the page. The selected ranked related content may also be delivered with any keywords and corresponding campaigns described elsewhere herein. The selected ranked related content may also be delivered in the form of a user interface overlay window to be displayed over the web page upon an action or a selection by the user. The related content engine may include a content relevancy engine for ranking and ordering related content according to any one or more content relevancy criteria policies or rules . The related content engine may obtain related content from the content provider or from any other content source accessible via network such as via a search engine.

The related content engine may comprise hardware or software executable on hardware. The related content engine may comprise an application a program a library a script a service process task thread or any type and form of executable instructions. The related content engine may include logic operations or functions to obtain content related to one or keywords page content the publisher or publisher s web site. The related content engine may perform a search via one or more search engines to identify and or obtain content related to one or keywords page content the publisher or publisher s web site. The related content engine may perform a search on or makes requests of or traverse a predetermined set of content providers to identify and or obtain content related to one or keywords page content the publisher or publisher s web site.

The related content engine may identify the types and forms of related content . The related content engine may determine which related content is video. The related content engine may determine which related content is audio. The related content engine may determine which related content is an advertisement. The related content engine may determine which related content are further web pages or page data. Related content engine may include any functionality to determine which related content includes text content words or scripts from a related web page. The related web page may include a web page from the same or a similar publisher from the same or a similar advertiser or relating a same or a similar company or a product. The related web page may also be any web page that includes the same similar or related content to the content of the web page over which the user interface overlay window is to be displayed.

The related content engine may index the related content . The related content engine may enumerate the related content . The related content engine may store or cache any related content. The related content engine may perform any type and form of metrics on the related content . The related content engine may determine a size source or type of the related content . The related content engine may track and store usage data on any of the related content . The related content engine may track and store user behavior data on any of the related content .

The related content engine may include a content relevancy engine which may comprise hardware or software executable on hardware. Content relevancy engine may comprise an application a program a library a script a service process task thread or any type and form of executable instructions. Content relevancy engine may include logic operations or functions to identify determine and rank the relevancy semantically or otherwise of the related content . Content relevancy engine may include any functionality for ranking and or sorting any related content based on relevance to the keyword the user or any other information or context of a web page

Predetermined threshold may include any type and form of value or threshold identifying a duration of time such as a duration of time within which selected related content is delivered or returned to the client . Predetermined threshold may include an identification of a duration of time within which ranking ordering and selection of the related content into selected related content is completed. Predetermined threshold may identify any duration of time upon loading a page or while the page is being loaded by the browser. Predetermined threshold may identify any duration of time between 1 and 1000 milliseconds. In some embodiments predetermined threshold identifies a duration of time such as 1 2 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 50 60 70 80 90 or 100 milliseconds. In further embodiments predetermined threshold identifies 100 200 300 400 500 600 700 800 or 900 milliseconds. In further embodiments predetermined threshold identifies a duration of time of less than a millisecond such as 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 or 0.9 milliseconds. Predetermined threshold may vary from web page to web page or may be a standard value for all web pages. In some embodiments predetermined threshold is determined for each web page individually. In other embodiments predetermined threshold is set for all web pages . Predetermined threshold may be used by the related content engine to perform the entire process of selecting the related content and delivering back to the client .

Content relevancy engine may rank and sort related content . In some embodiments content relevancy engine ranks related content based on the relevance to the keyword or the user. Content relevance engine may determine the relevance to the keyword or the user based on the text context or meaning of the phrase link or portion of content of web page the user has selected or clicked on. Content relevancy engine may include the functionality for determining recency of the content such as the time when the content was created and the time when it was updated. Content relevance engine may determine the most relevant group of related content using portions of web page such as words keywords tags scripts and text. Content relevancy engine may sort the relevant content into groups based on related content type. Content relevancy engine sorts relevant content based on type of content such as audio video text web page pictures advertisements web page scripts and more. In some embodiments content relevancy engine determines one or more most relevant videos out of relevant content out of the relevant content videos.

In other embodiments content relevancy engine determines one or more most relevant web page out of the relevant content web pages. In further embodiments content relevancy engine determines one or more most relevant advertisements out of the relevant content advertisements. In still further embodiments content relevancy engine determines one or more most relevant pictures photos or graphical displays out of the relevant content pictures photos and graphics. Content relevancy engine may sort and or rank related content based on content relevancy criteria . Content relevancy engine may sort and or rank information for a specified period of time and return the results back to the client within the period of time identified by the predetermined threshold .

Content relevancy engine may select the sorted and or ranked related content into the selected related content . Content relevancy engine may include any functionality for selecting one or more most relevant related contents into a group of selected related contents . Content relevancy engine may select videos from the related content into selected videos of the selected related content . Content relevancy engine may select web pages or links of web pages from the related content into selected web pages or selected links of web pages of the selected related content . Content relevancy engine may select pictures or photos from the related content into selected pictures or photos of the selected related content . Content relevancy engine may select audio from the related content into selected audio of the selected related content . Content relevancy engine may select advertisements or publisher content from the related content into selected advertisements or selected publisher content of the selected related content .

Content relevancy criteria may include any type and form of criteria rules or guidelines for sorting and or ranking related content . Content relevancy criteria may include instructions policies and rules for sorting and or ranking information such as related content . Content relevancy criteria may include information used by content relevancy engine to sort and rank related content . In some embodiments content relevancy criteria includes instructions to search for information such as words or keywords selected by the user via search engines. Content relevancy criteria may include information about when a content was created and or when the content was last updated. Content relevancy criteria may include information such as time stamps to determine recency of any of the contents. Content relevancy criteria may include instructions for searching a specific type of related content within a data base or a storage of server or server . Content relevancy criteria may include rules for sorting related content into groups based on type such as video audio advertisement web page text pictures or graphical products and services. Content relevancy criteria may include rules or policies for ranking relevant content in the order from least relevant to most relevant. Content relevancy criteria may include user s preferences user s history user behavior or list of links hyperlinks or references the user has selected in the past. Content relevancy engine may use the content relevancy criteria of any kind to rank and or sort related content .

Related content may include any type and form of content or data that can be transmitted and or displayed via a web page . Related content may include any content that may be included in a user interface overlay . Related content may be a video file an audio file a web page and or web page content . Related content may include related advertisements . Related content may include augmented content . Related content may include related video . In some embodiments related content may include URL to page . In some embodiments related content includes real time statistics . Related content may include any content from a third party publisher or a third party ad exchange such as content comprising or delivered via XML or API. Related content may include any content from a third party publisher or a third party ad exchange. Such third party content may include any audio video advertisement web page news feed information feed or any other web page content.

Selected related content may include any related content selected to be sent to client . Selected related content may include any portion of related content that was sorted and or ranked by the related content engine . Selected content may be selected to be delivered to client via a tooltip or user interface overlay window. Selected related content may be an audio file a video file a link or a hyperlink to a web page a web page a picture or a photo an advertisement or any other type and form of related content . Selected related content may include any number of related contents that are ranked highest in relevance to the user. For example selected related content may include 1 2 3 4 or 5 videos that are most highly ranked videos in terms of relevance to the user. In other examples selected related content includes 1 2 3 4 or 5 most highly ranked web pages or links to web pages in terms of relevance to the user. In further embodiments selected related content includes 1 2 3 4 or 5 most highly ranked advertisements or photos. In some embodiments selected related content includes anywhere between 6 and 30 most highly ranked videos audio files web pages links to web pages advertisements or any other related content .

Referring now to an embodiment of a user interface overlay having a main module that includes selected related content is illustrated. User interface overlay may comprise width and height which may be defined in pixels. The main module or the main portion of the user interface overlay may be positioned in the center of the user interface overlay at the top or bottom section or within any portion of the tooltip. The heading of the user interface overlay window or the main module may include buttons for closing the window and or help or questions. The heading may also include an entity name or logo and or a title referencing the selected related content enclosed. User interface overlay window illustrated in further comprises related articles referencing web pages of the related content . The web pages may be selected related content which may include web pages that are most relevant to the keyword or portion of content the user has selected in the original web page loaded by the user.

The main module of the user interface overlay may include or operate using a vibrant only algorithm. The vibrant only algorithm may include functionality that returns and displays to the user a module having a pre populated selected related content responsive to a mouse over action or a selection by a user of a hyperlinked keyword within web page . Vibrant only algorithm may include selected related content that may be selected and presented using Vibrant algorithm article contextualization. Vibrant only algorithm article contextualization may provide to the user with the related content stored on the host publisher s servers or or the servers of the host advertising network. In some embodiments vibrant only algorithm provides to the user the selected related content that is picked out from the related content selected provided serviced or approved by the publisher host publisher host server or host advertising network. Vibrant only algorithm article contextualization may use any information stored on a server or server as related content from which the selected related content is acquired filtered sorted and or ranked to be selected and presented to the user.

The main module of the user interface overlay may include any third party material or content providing functions such as for example a third party XML API only algorithm. The third party XML API only algorithm may include any logic programs and or functionality that present to a user a module of a user interface overlay window pre populated with XML feeds and or APIs from a third party publisher a third party host a third party advertiser or a third party ad exchange network. The third party XML feeds and or APIs may include selected related content ranked and selected from the related content stored on the servers or servers of the third party publisher advertiser host or ad exchange company. The third party XML and or API algorithm may present content that includes any selected related content pertaining to a third party. The third party XML API algorithm may present content that includes results from third party search engines such as Google.com search engine Yahoo.com search engine and or data bases from any sources of information such as databases websites and or web pages from anywhere on the world wide web or from any private network. In some embodiments a combined vibrant only algorithm and third party XML API algorithm is used to present selected related content within a main module. In such embodiments upon a mouse over or a selection of a link by a user the user receives a user interface overlay window comprising selected related content selected from a pool of related content from both the host publisher and or advertiser network servers as well as from the related content of the third party publishers and or third party advertiser networks.

The main module of the user interface overlay may include functions states or controls such as an On Off state or button. The On Off state may be determined by Partner Management System settings. The Partner Management System settings include any system or function for using feedback or end user behavior interests web pages selected or information about the behavior of the user to generate predict or estimate preferences of the user. In some embodiments user interface overlay includes a window such as a web page window which may expand vertically to the maximum pixel dimensions as specified in a specification. In some embodiments the horizontal dimensions of the unit remain static while the vertical dimensions extend or change. In other embodiments vertical dimensions of the user interface overlay while the horizontal dimensions are static. In further embodiments both the horizontal and vertical dimensions change expand or contract. The information returned within the user interface module may conform to the specified Title Body Copy Call To Action CTA for the user settings and or thumbnail values.

The main module of the user interface overlay window may conform to any s settings or specifications. In some embodiments the main module conforms to color specifications. The color specifications may include the color of the title text user interface overlay background text search button search bar calls to action CTAs links hyperlinks or any other portion of the user interface overlay . In some embodiments user interface overlay is expandable to a defined maximum set in terms of length units such as inches or centimeters or in pixels. User interface module may include the links of the host publisher or the host advertisement exchange such as for example links of host publisher or host advertiser s content such as for example Vibrant Media contents. The links may be pre populated on the servers and displayed immediately when the unit is displayed. In some embodiments upon expansion of the user interface overlay by a specified number of pixels one or more third party links can be displayed.

The third party links or hyperlinks displayed within the main module of the user interface overlay may be pre populated from the servers and displayed immediately when the unit user interface overlay is displayed to the user. In some embodiments a search bar is attached to the bottom of the main module. In further embodiments a logo is shown at the top left hand corner of the page. If articles have already been visited by the user previously an indication may be provided to indicate to the user that the user has already visited such selected related content . Such indication may be implemented by showing a graphic to the right hand side of the article results of the selected related content displayed.

Referring now to an embodiment of a user interface overlay window having a bottom module comprising selected related content is illustrated. In some embodiments illustrates an emergence or display of the bottom portion or bottom module of the user interface overlay . The bottom module of the user interface overlay may include any functionality or embodiments as the main module of the user interface overlay and vice versa. The bottom module may be located in the bottom portion of the user interface overlay and may be pre loaded initially when the user interface overlay is first loaded or it may be loaded later upon a mouse over or a click by a user. further illustrates an embodiment in which the user interface overlay window expands vertically to include a new bottom module emerging from the bottom of the user interface overlay window. The user interface overlay window of may extend vertically from an initial height in pixels to a new and larger height in pixels.

In some embodiments when a user selects a keyword on web page a user interface overlay may appear displaying only the main module. As the user interface overlay extends a new module such as the bottom module may appear comprising additional content such as videos audio files web pages advertisements and links of the selected related content . In other embodiments the bottom module and the main module appear immediately and together when the user selects the keyword. The user interface overlay may expand automatically or in response to an action of a user such as a mouse over or a click. The contraction or expansion of the user interface overlay may extend or expand by a predetermined size in the number of pixels. In some embodiments the size of the increase or expansion of the user interface overlay may be determined for each user interface overlay window individually. In such embodiments the user interface overlay window may extend by only a minimum number of pixels necessary to include the additional content to be displayed within the extended portion of the user interface overlay . In some embodiments third party XML API feed may be used to present thumbnails title description and call to action for third party content. The third party data may be displayed in the bottom portion of the user interface overlay or the sliding or expanding portion. In some embodiments until all of third party data or content is loaded there may be no indication that the bottom portion of the user interface overlay is present as sometimes no third party data may be available.

The sliding or expanding of the user interface overlay and emergence of the bottom module may occur when the third party XML API data or selected related content is loaded. In such embodiments the original host publisher articles section in the main module or portion of the user interface overlay may be compressed or expanded. The user interface overlay may expand to the maximum pixel dimension size as defined in the specifications. The content returned within the expanded module may conform to the title body copy call to action and thumbnail values. In some embodiments an option is available to embed video from the third party XML API feeds into the user interface overlay .

Referring now to an embodiment of a user interface overlay window having a top module comprising selected related content is illustrated. The top module may include any functionality of a main module or the bottom module and vice versa. In some embodiments illustrates an emergence or display of a top portion or top module of the user interface overlay . User interface overlay window may expand or extend vertically to expose a new module at the top of the user interface overlay window . In some embodiments upon user mouse over on a hyperlinked keyword of web page a pre populated main module is illustrated. Additionally when results are returned from the XML API feed then XML API results may slide from the bottom of the main module and form part of the main module. In some embodiments the top module reveals itself sliding out from the main module upon a mouse over or a click by a user. The top module may include additional content or information such as for example Wordcast advertising. In some embodiments after a mouse over or a click a live lookup or a cached data may be displayed such as third party XML API data Wordcast advertising or VIA advertising. Such advertisements may be limited within a space of a module such as a top module and within a predetermined area defined by a specific number of pixels. In some embodiments if a module such as the top module is displayed before other modules content such as selected related content may be populated into this module before populating other modules. In some embodiments horizontal dimensions of the top module remain static while the vertical dimensions expand and contract. In other embodiments vertical dimensions are static and horizontal dimension expand and contract. In further embodiments if the main module is not present the top module acts as an independent module and includes the logo on the top left corner of the module.

Referring now to an embodiment of a user interface overlay window having a sliding window on the side of the user interface overlay comprising selected related content is illustrated. The sliding window may have a size in pixels such as for example 300 by 250 pixels and may include pictures photos links videos search tabs advertisements or any other content. The sliding window may include In Text services such as Vibrant In Text services that may include Vibrant In text Ads VIA . The sliding window may sometimes also be referred to as Vibrant In Text Advertisement VIA unit or VIA module. Once content that is comprised within the sliding VIA module is loaded VIA module may slide to present new content to the user. The sliding window or the VIA module may include any functionality of the main module top and bottom modules and vice versa. The sliding window may include On Off states and functions. The sliding function may be controlled by the publisher host servers or or the third party publisher s servers or .

In some embodiments if the user interface overlay is less than 250 pixels high and or if there is a Vibrant In Text Advertisement VIA module to be displayed then the main module or main module plus top module combined should automatically expand to 250 pixels. The VIA module may slide out for a predefined period set by server or by a user. In order to accommodate the slide out function some white space may be present within VIA module. The unit must be able to expand vertically to the maximum pixel dimensions as specified. The horizontal dimensions of the VIA module and or of the user interface overlay may remain static. In some embodiments the horizontal dimensions change. In some embodiments VIA module is displayed only if there is enough content to populate 300 250 pixel sized VIA module and if there is a contextual or behavioral match found in order to identify and return selected related content .

User interface overlay modules may be ordered so that the most relevant articles links photos videos or any other selected related content appear at the top of any lists displayed. Rankings may be calculated based on recency and or on relevance. In some embodiments related content is ranked based on how recent related content is and or how relevant the content is. Content may be ordered and or ranked based on relevance and or recency for host publisher and host advertisement content as well as the third party publisher and advertisement content. User interface overlay may include In Text advertisement content as well as the related content . Keywords the user selected may be added to a keyword database. The keyword database may include operations that can run a report and or analyze and acquire any new keywords that may come up as the result of the search. Contextualization from embedded user interface overlays may take into consideration multiple keywords on the page and then rank in order of relevance.

Referring now to an embodiment of a user interface overlay is illustrated. User interface overlay may comprise any number of modules such as the main module top module bottom module and VIA module. Parameters of the user interface overlay may be set for each individual user interface overlay on a per channel basis. Ability to adjust the minimum and maximum amount of pixels for the user interface overlay window and or any module may be included. In some embodiments default dimensions of a top module and main module are 322 272 pixels. In further embodiments default dimensions of the main module and the bottom module are 322 325 pixels. In further embodiments default dimensions of any or all of the modules are 322 372. In still further embodiments any of the modules may include a length of anywhere between 1 and 2000 pixels such as 10 20 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500 550 600 650 700 800 900 1000 1200 1400 1500 1600 1800 and 2000 pixels. In yet further embodiments any of the modules may include a width of anywhere between 1 and 2000 pixels such as 10 20 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 400 450 500 550 600 650 700 800 900 1000 1200 1400 1500 1600 1800 and 2000 pixels. The size of the modules and or interface overlay may be adjusted based on the size and or shape of the selected related content displayed within the modules.

In some embodiments a minimum amount of articles and or related content or selected related content that are included in the user interface overlay may be set before the user interface overlay is displayed. In some embodiments a maximum amount of articles and or selected related content to be displayed within user interface unit may be set. These settings may be changed on a server side by any publisher or advertiser or on a client side by the user. Settings for allowing or enabling and or disallowing or disabling types of modules on a particular web page may be included. These settings may also be controlled via the server side by any publisher or advertiser or by the user. Each web page may have a customizable color hex color code. This option may allow the publishers and or advertisers to define the sites color choices.

In some embodiments the logo may be displayed on the top left corner of the main module. If the main module is not available the logo may be displayed on the top module. In some embodiments when a web page or a web site is signed up with the host publisher at server a logo may be included with the server . The location of the logo image may be saved so that it can be included into the user interface overlay . The user may define for how long the ad or a module of user interface overlay window is slid out. In some embodiments the default for a duration of slid out module is 30 seconds. In other embodiments this time duration is amended at user level or at the server level.

An RC unit tag may be used or called on a predefined placement. This tag may be compatible with 3party advertising servers and may be hard coded. Slide animations may be removed for some page embedded content. Some modules may be positioned in different portions of the user interface overlay to match the page of the publisher the third party publisher as well as the host publisher. In some embodiments the VIA unit or module resides at the top of the user interface overlay or on the left side or on the bottom instead of at the right hand side.

Referring now to FIG another embodiment of a user interface overlay is illustrated. Upon user mouse over on a hyperlinked keyword of web page a user interface overlay may be displayed showing the top module residing on top of the main module. The top module may include embodiments of WordCast advertising. In such embodiments the user may see advertisements from a larger selection of sites or a larger selection of publishers and or advertisers. When a user visits a page user interface overlay may he provide the user with additional enhancements such as a preview screenshot of the link destination. The preview screenshot of the link destination may be a miniature version of the web page and or video or file at the destination link. The screenshot of the destination link page may be of any size such as for example of any size of a module or a user interface overlay . Similarly upon user mouse over on a Vibrant article or 3party XML API the user may be presented with a screenshot of what the landing page will look like.

Referring now to an embodiment of steps of a method for delivering to a user related content based on an augmented keyword of a web page is illustrated. may also relate a method for delivering related video content for augmented keywords on the web page . At step an agent sends page data or content to server while a web page is being loaded by browser or upon the page is loaded by the browser. At step server analyzes page data or page content and reduces the data set. At step server matches campaigns to content filtering for the web page . At step server ranks the keywords of web page based on plurality of criteria. At step server identifies related content videos . At step server selects and orders the relevant related content into selected related content . At step server sends the matching keywords along with the relevant selected related content to the agent on the client within a predetermined time period. At step agent hooks keywords. At step agent detects mouse over or a click of a keyword by a user and displays a user interface overlay comprising the selected related content .

In further overview of at step the agent executing on a client browser may send data or content from web page to augmentation server . Step may include any step operation action or embodiment described at step of . The agent may be initialized loaded and or activated by any load event or API of the browser or web page . The agent may be executed prior to content of the web page being loaded or displayed or during the loading of the web page . The agent may identify gather and aggregate data from the page. The agent many identify and or gather any text portions of the web page any content such as scripts tags or URLs any HTML XML java script or other page languages functions or code and any other content of web page . The agent may transmit to server any content identified and or retrieved such as text and or any page metrics and transmits such content to server . The agent may transmit the page data together in one transaction to the server or via a series of transactions. The agent may transmit the page data using any type and form of protocol. In some embodiments the agent transmits the page data while the browser is loading the web page . In other embodiments the agent transmits the page data upon the page is loaded by the browser . In further embodiments the agent transmits page data upon receiving a message from the server to send the page data . In still further embodiments the agent sends page data within a predetermined time threshold such as predetermined threshold .

At step the server analyzes the page data and reduces the page data to a working set of page data to continue analysis. Step may include any actions steps or embodiments of the step in . Server may use any subset of web page data to perform analysis of the web page .

At step the server matches campaigns to content filtering for the page. The server may match the text from the working set of page data to determine if there is any type and form of matching to any campaigns. Server may perform any type of semantic matching to match keywords on the page semantically to concepts meanings categories subject matter and or keywords of campaigns. Server may filter out the content to include only files of a certain type such as video files or audio files or web pages or links etc. Step may include any actions steps or embodiments of the step in .

At step the server performs any type and form ranking of keywords of the page data identified by the keyword matcher. Step may include any actions steps or embodiments of the step in .

At step server identifies related content such as videos. In some embodiments related content engine identifies the related content . Related content may be identified by filtering the data or contents corresponding to any campaigns stored on the server . Related content may be identified using data from a third party server a third party publisher or a third party advertising network or ad exchange. Related content may be identified based on XML or APIs from a third party publisher or a third party ad exchange network. Related content engine may identify the related content using a search of web pages from the same or similar publisher the same or similar ad exchange network and or a same or a similar content. Related content engine may identify related content by searching video files having the same or similar content or a same or similar description as one or more keywords from web page . In some embodiments related content is identified by searching web pages of the world wide web for information indicated in the keywords from the web page . In other embodiments related content is identified from the results from search engines. Related content may be identified based on the user behavior information. In some embodiments related content engine identifies related content using the keywords of web page and information or data relating user s interests such as data the user has previously searched or accessed. In some embodiments identified related content includes a video file such as a related video . In further embodiments identified related content includes an advertisement such as related advertisement . In still further embodiments identified related content includes augmented content . In yet further embodiments identified related content includes URL to page .

At step server selects and orders related content such as videos into a group of selected related content or videos . Related content engine and or content relevancy engine may determine which related content is relevant. Relevant content may include any related content such as videos audio files advertisements and web pages. Relevant content may be selected using any information about web pages videos or audio files the user has accessed or searched for previously. In some embodiments relevant content is determined based on the information about user s behavior and or interests to determine which content out the user is likely to be interested in. Relevant content may also be determined using keywords from the web page in combination with information about the user. Related content engine or content relevancy engine may determine most relevant content using any content relevancy criteria . Relevant content may be determined based on weights of keywords matched in the web page with information stored at server . In some embodiments relevant content is determined based on the data freshness or recency information such as the information about the time of creation of the content or when the content was last updated. Relevant content may be determined by filtering the content types or formats such as video audio web page stream or any other type of content. Relevant content may be ordered or ranked according to the relevance and the most relevant contents may be selected into selected related content . In some embodiments any combination of weighted keywords from web page user data and or information about the user data freshness or recency information and data types and format may be combined to determine the selected related content . In some embodiments a group of most relevant videos is selected. In other embodiments a group of most relevant web pages is selected. In further embodiments a group of most relevant advertisements is selected. In still further embodiments any group of any type and form of related content is sorted and ranked to select the selected related content to present to the user.

At step server sends matching keywords with the selected related content to agent within a predetermined time period. Related content engine may send to agent any number of selected related content of any format. Keywords transmitted along with the selected related content may correspond or be related to the selected related content . Related content engine may send to agent any combination of and any number of related videos related advertisements augmented content URL to pages and or real time statistics . Related content engine may send to agent information and or instructions for creating or forming a user interface overlay . Selected related content may be transmitted along with instructions to display the selected related content within user interface overlay . In some embodiments related content engine sends to agent information about setting or organizing the user interface overlay . Related content engine may send instructions and or information about organizing selected related content within one or more modules of the user interface overlay . Selected related content may be sent along with keywords from web page to which the selected related content corresponds. The keywords may be used for In Text advertisement in web page . Selected related content may include content that corresponds or is related to one or more of the keywords of the web page .

Still at step selected related content and or keywords may be transmitted to agent within a predetermined time threshold or a predetermined time period. In some embodiments related content engine returns to agent selected related content within a predetermined amount of time from the web page being loaded by the browser . In other embodiments selected related content is transmitted to the agent within a predetermined amount of time from the completion of loading of web page by the browser. In still further embodiments selected related content is transmitted to the agent within a predetermined amount of time from the moment when the agent was executed by the browser . In yet further embodiments selected related content is transmitted to the agent within a predetermined amount of time from an action by a user such as a mouse over a click a movement of a mouse or a signal from the keyboard of the user. The predetermined amount of time within which selected relevant content and or keywords are returned to agent may be any predetermined threshold described herein.

At step agent hooks keywords received from related content engine . Agent may hook any keyword received from the server . Agent may modify augment or change web page to make any keyword interactive. In some embodiments the keyword is underlined by agent . In further embodiments keyword is double underlined to distinguish the hooked keyword from any other content or text of web page . Agent may change the color size and or font of the keyword that hooked by the agent. The hooked keyword may correspond to any of the selected related contents transmitted. The agent may modify the keyword within web page to be used as a trigger for displaying user interface overlay . Agent may hook the keyword such that the user interface overlay comprising selected related content is displayed on the user s computer screen upon a selection or an action by the user. The selection or the action initiating the display of the user interface overlay may be a mouse over action by the user over the keyword on web page . The user may also initiate the display of the user interface overlay by clicking on the keyword within web page .

At step agent detects a mouse over or a click of the keyword by the user and displays a user interface overlay window that comprises the selected related content . Upon a mouse over action by a user over the keyword augmented in web page user interface overlay may appear or display. In some embodiments the user interface overlay appears upon a click by a user on the keyword. The keyword is the same keyword that is received by the agent from the server . The user interface overlay displaying over a portion of web page may comprise one or more modules. The modules of user interface overlay may each include a number of selected related content . In some embodiments a module of the user interface overlay includes links such a URL to page . In other embodiments a module of the user interface overlay includes augmented content . In further embodiments user interface overlay includes related video . In still further embodiments user interface overlay includes related advertisements .

