---

title: User authentication in a mobile environment
abstract: A data channel transmission can be used to authenticate a voice channel transmission. A third party trusted authentication server can be used to authenticate the identity of one or more parties to a call where at least one of the parties to the call is using a mobile device. A PKI authentication methodology or other symmetric or asymmetric encryption/decryption methodology can be used in a mobile network environment to identify and authenticate a first user to a second user. The authentication request sent to the third party trusted server can be encrypted, signed and transmitted over a data channel (such as an internet connection or SMS or MMS connection), concurrent with the voice channel transmission. In response to validation by the third party trusted server, the third party trusted server can send an authentication indication to the second user's device, which can display identification information and other (optional) data associated with the first user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09544770&OS=09544770&RS=09544770
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09544770
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101201
---
A mobile device is a pocket sized programmable computing device that is capable of doing a number of functions formerly performed by a plurality of other devices including traditional telephones and or portable or desktop computers. A mobile device typically has a display screen with touch input and or a miniature keyboard. A personal digital assistant PDA is a type of mobile device in which the input and output are often combined into a touch screen interface. A smart phone is another type of mobile device that offers more advanced computing ability and connectivity than a contemporary basic feature phone. A feature phone is a mobile device that is distinguished from a PDA and a smart phone by having proprietary operating system OS firmware. Third party software is often only supported in a limited way although this may be changing as newer versions of feature phone software becomes more powerful.

An authentication server and an authentication methodology can be used in a mobile network environment to authenticate a first user to a second user by authenticating a message sent by the first user to the authentication server. The message can include the identity of the first user and other information. Either the first user or the second user can request authentication of the first user to the second user. An authentication request can be sent to an authentication server. The request can be encrypted and or signed and sent over a data channel such as but not limited to an Internet connection or telephony messaging system connection such as but not limited to a short message service SMS connection or multimedia messaging service MMS connection concurrent with establishment of a voice channel connection between the first user and the second user. In response to successful validation by the authentication server the authentication server can send an authentication indication to the device of the user receiving the authentication results. The receiving user s device can display identification information and other optional data associated with the first user. A data channel transmission is thus used to authenticate a voice channel transmission. The authentication server can vouch for the identification of the first user the message integrity and the message privacy.

A confirmation response confirming the identity of the second user to the first user can be sent to the first user. The confirmation response can be sent over a data channel such as an Internet connection or SMS MMS connection in parallel to the voice channel transmission. The authentication server can vouch for the identity of the second user the message integrity and the message privacy.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

As mobile devices become more widely used security concerns arise. Currently when a mobile device user receives a call there is no guarantee that the caller is who he says he is. For example a caller may identify himself as a service provider offering a new service or a current promotion. The caller may request sensitive personal information including account numbers and credit card information. A prudent user may hesitate to provide such information without some degree of assurance that the caller is who he says he is. Similarly it is difficult for a caller who calls a user to know if the person who answers the call is the person the caller is calling. For example a service provider may call an account holder s mobile telephone number but without some degree of questioning does not know if the user who answered the call is the account holder or someone else. Frequently the user is asked a number of questions to establish identity. Answers that match what the service provider has on file for the user are used as an indicator of authenticity. The scenarios presented are by no means the only ones in which security issues arise in connection with the use of mobile devices.

In accordance with aspects of the subject matter disclosed herein a first user a first client or a second user a second client can initiate establishment of a connection over a voice channel such as but not limited to a cellular channel. The first user can use a mobile device such as but not limited to a mobile device as described with respect to . The first user can use a computing device such as but not limited to a computer as described with respect to . The first user can be a caller or a callee. The first user can be any user including but not limited to a service provider of telephone services and or a service provider of data services or a customer or potential customer. The first user can request his identity be sent to the second user and optionally can request a reply from the second user authenticating the second user to the first user.

A second user can use a mobile device such as but not limited to a mobile device as described with respect to . The second user can use a computing device such as but not limited to a computer as described with respect to . The second user can be a caller or a callee. The second user can be any user including but not limited to a service provider of telephone services and or a service provider of data services or a customer or potential customer. The second user can receive the identity of the first user and can reply with his identity thereby authenticating the second user to the first user.

A voice channel can be established between the first user and the second user. The connection can be initiated by either the first user or the second user. At least one of the parties to the call uses a mobile device. The other party can use either a mobile device a landline telephone or a computer. In response to a request for authentication by either party for either party an authentication process can be initiated as described herein.

In response to one user i.e. a requesting user requesting authentication of the identity of the first user i.e. the user for whom authentication is requested the authentication process can be initiated by a user provided application or by an application provided with the mobile device or computer. The first user can send an authentication request requesting the server to authenticate the identity of the first user and send the authentication to the second user. The application can make a call to a server application programming interface API on an authentication server. Substantially concurrently with transmitting the voice transmission over the voice channel a signed and or encrypted authentication request can be transmitted to the authentication server over a data channel such that the data channel transmission is used to authenticate the voice channel transmission.

The authentication request can be a message encrypted using the server s public key also called the server s public certificate and signed using the private key also called the private certificate of the first user the user for whom authentication has been requested using PKI authentication methodology asymmetric key encryption decryption . Alternatively another type of authentication methodology can be used including but not limited to symmetric key encryption decryption . The authentication request can include identification information associated with the authentication request sender and or can include identification information associated with the user whose identity is being authenticated. The authentication request can also include other information volunteered by the authentication request sender. The authentication request can include information desired by the requesting user. The authentication request can include a request for confirmation of the receiving user s identity. The authentication request can be sent over a data channel such as but not limited to an Internet connection or SMS MMS connection. SMS is a text communication service component of telephone web or mobile communication systems. SMS uses standardized communications protocols that allow the exchange of short text messages between fixed line or mobile telephone devices. MMS uses standardized communications protocols that allow the exchange of multimedia messages between fixed line or mobile telephone devices.

An authentication server can receive the authentication request. If the authentication request sender requests authentication of himself to the authentication receiver the authentication server can decrypt the encrypted message and or can verify that the message is signed by the user that the message indicates is the sender thereby authenticating the identity of the user whose identity is being authenticated. A message indicating that the user whose identity is being authenticated has been authenticated can be sent to the receiving user the second user . If however the authentication server does not successfully decrypt the encrypted message and or is not able to verify that the message is signed by the user that the message indicates is the sender authentication fails and a message indicating that the authentication server was unable to authenticate the identity of the user whose identity is being authenticated can be sent to the first user and or to the second user. The user whose identity is being authenticated can be prompted to enter credentialing information again before the message indicating that the authentication server was unable to authenticate identity is sent.

The authentication server may have a data store of user information that includes the mobile telephone numbers of users usernames passwords PIN codes the name address and public keys for users credentialing information identification information and so on. The authentication server can look up in its data store the mobile telephone number of the user to whom the authentication information will be sent the second user . A message indicating success or failure of authentication can be prepared and sent to the second user the user receiving the authentication results. If authentication of the user being authenticated was successful the identity of the user being authenticated any other information about the user in the authentication server s data store and any information volunteered by the user requesting authentication can be sent to the user receiving the authentication. The message sent from the server to the user receiving the authentication results can include information that indicates that a trusted third party server recognizes the authenticated user and can indicate that the authentication server trusts the authenticated user. The message can be signed by the server using the server s private key and or encrypted with the receiving user s public key. Alternatively symmetric key or other encryption decryption methodologies can be employed by the authentication server in its authentication process.

The user receiving the authentication information from the authentication server the second user can have an application on the mobile device or computer that can receive the message can decrypt the encrypted message and or can check that the message is actually signed by the server. The identification information provided in the message received from the server can be displayed to the second user via an application such as a pop up or other application. If authentication of the second user is requested by the first user the second user can be prompted for credentials including but not limited to a password or personal identification number PIN code and or other information. The second user can enter the information for which he is prompted and can encrypt and or sign the confirmation message. The encrypted and or signed message can be sent to the authentication server. The authentication server can decrypt and or validate the digital signature to authenticate the confirmation message and thus the second user. The credentialing information can be verified against information stored at the authentication server for the user. If decryption and or validation of the confirmation fail authentication of the second user fails. The results of the authentication can be sent to the user requesting the confirmation message in an encrypted and or signed confirmation message sent from the authentication server.

System may include one or more computers or computing devices and or one or more mobile devices such as caller mobile device and or callee mobile device . A computer of system can be a user computer such as a laptop desktop or notebook computer capable of making a call to a mobile device such as callee mobile device and or capable of receiving a call from a mobile device such as caller mobile device . A computer or computing device can be a computing device such as authentication server . Authentication server can be a trusted third party server used as part of a public key infrastructure PKI authentication methodology. Alternatively authentication server can use symmetric key encryption decryption methodology or another type of encryption decryption methodology to authenticate a user. Authentication server can include a processor such as processor and a memory such as memory . Authentication server can include one or more modules comprising one or more authentication modules represented in by server authentication module . Other components well known in the arts may also be included but are not here shown. It will be appreciated that the above described module or modules can be loaded into memory to cause one or more processors such as processor to perform the actions attributed to the modules. System instead or in addition may include one or more mobile devices including but not limited to mobile devices such as caller mobile device and or callee mobile device . A mobile device is described below with respect to .

A first user using a mobile device or a computer can authenticate his identity to a second user using a mobile device or a computer. At least one of the two users uses a mobile device. One of the users can use a computer or computing device. For example referring to a first user can be a caller such as caller using a caller mobile device . Caller can authenticate his identify to a second user callee using a callee mobile device as described herein. Caller mobile device can include one or more authentication modules including but not limited to caller mobile device authentication module . Callee mobile device can include one or more authentication modules including but not limited to callee mobile device authentication module . It will be appreciated that caller mobile device can also include one or more authentication modules including but not limited to a callee mobile device authentication module not shown . Alternatively caller or callee can use a computer.

Caller e.g. a service provider can authenticate his identity to callee e.g. a customer or potential customer by sending an authentication request to a third party trusted server e.g. authentication server . The authentication request can include information identifying the caller information identifying the callee any other information that caller would like callee to have and or any other information that caller specifies. The request can be sent over a data channel such as but not limited to an Internet connection or SMS MMS connection. The request can be signed using the caller s private key and encrypted using the server s public key or other encryption decryption methodologies can be used.

Similarly a first user can be a callee such as callee using a callee mobile device such as callee mobile device and can authenticate his identify to a second user caller using a caller mobile device as described herein. Callee mobile device can include one or more authentication modules including but not limited to callee mobile device authentication module . Caller mobile device can include one or more authentication modules including but not limited to caller mobile device authentication module . It will be appreciated that callee mobile device can also include one or more authentication modules including but not limited to a caller mobile device authentication module not shown .

For example callee e.g. a service provider can authenticate his identity to caller e.g. a customer or potential customer by sending an authentication request to a third party trusted server e.g. authentication server . The authentication request can include information identifying the callee information identifying the caller any other information that callee would like caller to have and or any other information that callee specifies. The request can be sent over a data channel such as but not limited to an Internet connection or SMS MMS connection. The request can be signed using the callee s private key and encrypted using the server s public key or can use other encryption decryption methodologies. Alternatively caller or callee can use a computer.

An authentication server such as authentication server can receive the authentication request can decrypt the encrypted request using the server s public key and the digital signature can be verified using the public key of the user sending the message. Alternatively the authentication server can decrypt the encrypted request using symmetric key encryption decryption methodology or other encryption decryption methods. If the decryption fails the authentication of the sender s transmission and thus authentication of the identity of the sender fails. If the digital signature cannot be verified the authentication of the sender s transmission fails. Moreover authentication server can verify that information included in the transmission sent by the sender agrees with information for the sender stored in a data store associated with the authentication server . If decryption is successful and the digital signature of the sender of the message is verified and the information included in the transmission by the sender agrees with information stored in the data store of the authentication server the transmission the identity of the sender is authenticated.

In response to successful authentication of the sender s message the authentication server can send a message to the second user the user identified in the authentication request as the receiver of the authentication information. The authentication server can look up the mobile telephone number of the second user in its data store and can send the second user a message. The server message can include an indication from the authentication server indicating that the authentication server recognizes the first user. The server message can also include identification information associated with the sender including name address any information volunteered by the sender and so on. The information provided in the server message may represent identification information stored in the authentication server s database. The server message can be encrypted using the second user s public key and signed using the authentication server s private key. Alternatively symmetric key encryption decryption or other encryption decryption methods can be used.

An application on the device of the second user including but not limited to callee mobile device authentication module or caller mobile device authentication module can receive the signed and encrypted server message from the authentication server . To authenticate that the message comes from the authentication server e.g. a trusted third party the message can be decrypted using the second user s private key and the digital signature can be verified using the authentication server s public key. Alternatively symmetric key encryption decryption or other encryption decryption methods can be used. If the decryption fails the authentication of the authentication server fails. If the digital signature cannot be verified the authentication of the authentication server fails. If decryption is successful and the digital signature of the authentication server is verified the server message is authenticated. Because the authentication server is a trusted third party and the second user can verify that the message received is really from the authentication server the second user can be assured that the information included in the message concerning the sender s identity can be trusted. In response to successful validation of the authentication of the message the authentication module of the client application on the second user s mobile device or computer can display the sender s identification information to the second user s mobile device or computer.

Optionally if the identity of the second user is requested by the first user the mobile device authentication module of the mobile device of the second user can prompt the second user for his credentials. The credentials of the second user may include but are not limited to password or a personal identification number PIN code of the second user. This identification message a confirmation response can be encrypted using the authentication server s public key and signed using the private key of the second user. Alternatively symmetric key encryption decryption or other a encryption decryption methods can be used. The encrypted signed confirmation message can be sent to the authentication server over a data channel.

The authentication server can receive the confirmation message from the second user. To authenticate that the message comes from the second user the message can be decrypted using the authentication server s private key and the digital signature can be verified using the public key of the second user. Alternatively symmetric key encryption decryption methodology or other encryption decryption methodology can be used. If the decryption fails the authentication of the of the second user fails. If the digital signature cannot be verified the authentication of the of the second user fails. If decryption is successful and the digital signature of the of the second user is verified the confirmation message is authenticated.

In response to successful authentication of the confirmation message the authentication server can encrypt the confirmation message using the public key of the first user and sign the confirmation message using the server s private key. Alternatively symmetric key encryption decryption methodology or other encryption decryption methodology can be used. The first user can receive the confirmation response over a data channel such as an internet connection or SMS MMS connection on the identity of the second user in parallel to the voice channel.

The first user can receive the encrypted signed confirmation message from the authentication server . An application on the mobile device of the first user can receive the signed and encrypted confirmation message from the authentication server . To authenticate that the message comes from the authentication server the message can be decrypted using the private key of the first user and the digital signature can be verified using the authentication server s public key. Alternatively symmetric key encryption decryption methodology or other encryption decryption methodology can be used. If the decryption fails the authentication of the authentication server confirmation message fails. If the digital signature cannot be verified the authentication of the authentication server confirmation message fails. If decryption is successful and the digital signature of the authentication server is verified the authentication server confirmation message is authenticated. Because the authentication server is a trusted third party and the first user can verify that the message received is really from the authentication server the first user can be assured that the information included in the message concerning the identity of the second user can be trusted. In response to successful validation of the authentication of the confirmation message the authentication module on the device of the first user can display the authenticated information to the first user.

At a caller can initiate a call to a callee. The caller can initiate the call on a mobile device over a cellular voice channel from a computer over a data channel or from a landline telephone over a voice channel. The caller can be a first user or a second user. The callee can be a first user or a second user. At least one of the first user or the second user uses a mobile device. At an authentication request can be sent by the first user or the second user over a data channel to a third party trusted authentication server. The authentication request can request the authentication server to authenticate the first user to the second user. The authentication request can include identification information associated with the sender of the authentication request. The authentication request can be sent using a data channel such as but not limited to an Internet connection an SMS connection or an MMS connection which can be concurrent with the active cellular call. At the authentication request can be signed using the sender s private key and encrypted using the server s public key using PKI authentication methodology. Alternatively symmetric key or other encryption decryption methodologies can be used. The third party trusted server can check the integrity of the request and can validate or invalidate the identity of the sender of the authentication request as described above.

At the third party trusted server can send a message to the second user the user receiving the authentication results. The message can include information associated with the first user as registered in the server s database and any other data sent in the authentication request. The message can be encrypted using the second user s public key and signed using the authentication server s private key. At an authentication module on the second user s device can validate the integrity of the message s origin as described above. At the identification information associated with the first user can be displayed to the second user along with any additional data indicated in the authentication request. At if identification of the second user is requested at the second user can be prompted for credentials password PIN code etc. which can be validated by the third party trusted server at before the confirmation message is returned to the first user at preventing unauthorized use of the second user s certificate by a malicious user of the device.

In order to provide context for various aspects of the subject matter disclosed herein and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which various embodiments of the subject matter disclosed herein may be implemented. While the subject matter disclosed herein is described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules executed by one or more computers or other computing devices those skilled in the art will recognize that portions of the subject matter disclosed herein can also be implemented in combination with other program modules and or a combination of hardware and software. Generally program modules include routines programs objects physical artifacts data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments. The computing environment is only one example of a suitable operating environment and is not intended to limit the scope of use or functionality of the subject matter disclosed herein.

With reference to a computing device in the form of a computer is described. Computer may include a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit . The system memory may include volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . Nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory may include random access memory RAM which may act as external cache memory. The system bus couples system physical artifacts including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus can be any of several types including a memory bus memory controller peripheral bus external bus or local bus and may use any variety of available bus architectures.

Computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media such as volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. Computer storage media may be implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CDROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other transitory or non transitory medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by computer .

It will be appreciated that describes software that can act as an intermediary between users and computer resources. This software may include an operating system which can be stored on disk storage and which can control and allocate resources of the computer system . Disk storage may be a hard disk drive connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as interface . System applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It will be appreciated that computers can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands or information into the computer through an input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit through the system bus via interface port s . An interface port s may represent a serial port parallel port universal serial bus USB and the like. Output devices s may use the same type of ports as do the input devices. Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers that require particular adapters. Output adapters include but are not limited to video and sound cards that provide a connection between the output device and the system bus . Other devices and or systems or devices such as remote computer s may provide both input and output capabilities.

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computer although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . Remote computer s can be logically connected via communication connection . Network interface encompasses communication networks such as local area networks LANs and wide area networks WANs but may also include other networks. Communication connection s refers to the hardware software employed to connect the network interface to the bus . Connection may be internal to or external to computer and include internal and external technologies such as modems telephone cable DSL and wireless and ISDN adapters Ethernet cards and so on.

It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are examples only and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers may be used. One of ordinary skill in the art can appreciate that a computer or other client device can be deployed as part of a computer network. In this regard the subject matter disclosed herein may pertain to any computer system having any number of memory or storage units and any number of applications and processes occurring across any number of storage units or volumes. Aspects of the subject matter disclosed herein may apply to an environment with server computers and client computers deployed in a network environment having remote or local storage. Aspects of the subject matter disclosed herein may also apply to a standalone computing device having programming language functionality interpretation and execution capabilities.

The various techniques described herein may be implemented in connection with hardware or software or where appropriate with a combination of both. Thus the methods and apparatus described herein or certain aspects or portions thereof may take the form of program code i.e. instructions embodied in tangible media such as floppy diskettes CD ROMs hard drives or any other machine readable storage medium wherein when the program code is loaded into and executed by a machine such as a computer the machine becomes an apparatus for practicing aspects of the subject matter disclosed herein. In the case of program code execution on programmable computers the computing device will generally include a processor a storage medium readable by the processor including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. One or more programs that may utilize the creation and or implementation of domain particular programming models aspects e.g. through the use of a data processing API or the like may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a computer system. However the program s can be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language and combined with hardware implementations.

The mobile device may include a processing unit . The processing unit may be a single chip processor with volatile and non volatile memory not shown such as an ARM family processor although other processors may also be used. The mobile device may include a transceiver for communication with a host device e.g. server of . The transceiver may support wireless communication via antenna although the transceiver may support wireline communication in addition or alternatively. In a wireless configuration the transceiver may support short range communication such as Wi Fi or may support wide area communication via a cellular telephone or PCS infrastructure.

A user interface may be supported by a keypad and a display . The keypad function may be incorporated in a touchscreen version of the display . A memory can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. The memory may store data including locally generated information such as telephone numbers as well as download information such as Web pages. The memory may also store executable instructions that implement a script execution engine such as a Java virtual machine or similar execution environment. Executable scripts or application applet may be interpreted and or executed by the script execution engine . An operating system may be used to support basic functions in the mobile device . Operating system may also support user interface and communication primitives. Functions of the mobile device may be supported by native or downloaded programs . Such programs may be associated with functions including but not limited to dialing a telephone and power management.

One or more built in hardware or virtual peripherals including but not limited to a Bluetooth wireless capability a cryptographic engine a Wi Fi transceiver a global positioning satellite GPS receiver a camera a media player etc. While some of these peripherals may include hardware each of the peripherals may be associated with applications that support its interface to the mobile device as well as support its user interface. Audio circuits may include one or more speakers and one or more microphones.

While the subject matter disclosed herein has been described in connection with the figures it is to be understood that modifications may be made to perform the same functions in different ways.

