---

title: Composition comprising oil palm phenolics for use in providing neuroprotective effects and cognitive-enhancement
abstract: The present invention relates to a composition comprising oil palm phenolics for use in providing neuroprotective effects and improving cognitive and motor functions abilities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09642389&OS=09642389&RS=09642389
owner: MALAYSIAN PALM OIL BOARD
number: 09642389
owner_city: Selangor
owner_country: MY
publication_date: 20100129
---
The invention relates to a composition based on oil palm extract s and more particularly to a composition for use in providing neuroprotective effects and cognitive enhancement properties.

Harmful free radicals and reactive oxygen species have been implicated in aging and chronic diseases 1 . For instance oxidative damage is particularly detrimental to the brain where the neuronal cells are largely post mitotic and those which are damaged cannot be replaced readily via mitosis 2 . During normal aging the brain undergoes morphological and functional changes resulting in the observed neurobehavioural declines such as decrements in cognitive and motor performance which leads to Alzheimer s disease AD and Parkinson s disease PD respectively. Prominent symptoms of Alzheimer s disease include memory loss and confusion whilst common symptoms Parkinson s disease among others include trembling hands arms and face. It is understood that these symptoms are detrimental to the patient particularly if appropriate medicinal relief is not provided.

Based on the above various preventive measures which involve efforts to offer resistance against oxidative stress including physical activity and dietary intervention have been suggested to combat the advancement of chronic diseases as we age.

One of the effective resolutions which is evident based on studies conducted provides diets containing high amounts of phytochemicals whereby activities in relation to protection against these free radical induced diseases was observed due to their high antioxidative activities 3 . Plant phenolics are especially important antioxidants because of their high redox potential which allows them to act as reducing agents hydrogen donors singlet oxygen quenchers and metal chelators 3 . Antioxidants that accumulate in neuronal tissues are potential candidates for the prevention and treatment of neuronal disorders involving oxidative stress. Phenolic antioxidants may or may not cross the brain barrier depending on their properties such as charged state lipophilicity and interactions with efflux transporters with possible relative specificity of the compounds for different brain areas 4 . For example proanthocyanidins from blueberries may be found in the striatum while ellagitannins from strawberries may involve the hippocampus 5 . Many studies have recently shown that plant phenolics are able to enhance cognitive performance through their ability to reduce oxidative stress 2 5 12 .

In view of the above it is clear that there is a need for an antioxidant composition preferably based on plant extract s which is able to provide significant neuroprotective effects and thus improve cognitive performance.

It is therefore a primary object of the present invention to fulfil this need and in particular to provide an effective method for prevention of neurodegenerative ailments in addition to improving cognitive performance due to oxidative stress.

On the basis that oil palm phenolics possess significant antioxidative activities 13 14 it is hypothesized that they may have significant neuroprotective effects in vivo. Experiments were conducted on a balb c mice on a normal diet fed with oil palm phenolics for six weeks for observation and thus verify the signs of improvement in brain functions.

The present invention is directed to a composition for use in prevention of neurodegenerative ailments and improving cognitive performance comprising phenolics compounds derived from an extract of oil palm.

In one embodiment of the present invention the phenolic compounds are derived from an extract of oil palm by products including vegetation liquor from the palm oil milling process oil palm frond or oil palm fruit and fresh fruit bunch.

There is provided a composition comprising phenolic compounds derived from an extract of oil palm used for providing neuroprotective effects and improving cognitive and motor functions.

In line with the above summary the disclosed description and examples relates to a composition and method thereof for use in prevention of neurodegenerative diseases and improvement of cognitive performance. It shall be apparent to one skilled in the art that the exemplifications are provided to better elucidate the embodiments of the present invention and therefore should not be construed as limiting the scope of protection.

All methods described as exemplifications herein may be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein.

For the experimental examples inventors isolated botanical extracts comprising phenolic compounds fruit acids fruit sugars and glycerol from oil palm vegetation liquor from the palm oil milling process and the prepared formulations containing these extracts. It is understood that the extracts may be prepared by way of conventional methods.

All male inbred balb c mice which were designated for the purpose of the present invention were purchased from the Institute of Medical Research Kuala Lumpur Malaysia at around 5 weeks of age just after weaning. All animal procedures were approved by the Animal Care and Use Committee of the University of Malaya Kuala Lumpur Malaysia. The animals were randomly assigned into cages 5 animals cage and acclimatized for 1 week during which a standard chow diet purchased from the University of Malaya and distilled water were given.

It is noted that at the start of the experiment the diet of the animals was changed to a custom made standard normal diet 58.2 kcal kcal carbohydrate 27.2 kcal kcal protein and 14.6 kcal kcal fat including cellulose mineral mix vitamin mix and DL methonine . The control group n 5 was supplemented with distilled water as drinks ad libitum while the treatment group n 5 was supplemented with oil palm phenolics. The antioxidant content of the oil palm phenolics given was around 1500 ppm gallic acid equivalent. The oil palm phenolics were changed at least once a day as the oxidation of these compounds was rapid due to their high antioxidative activities. Mice were subjected to water maze and rotarod trials once a week throughout the feeding period. After 6 weeks of feeding the mice were sacrificed via euthanasia with diethyl ether. Their brains were excised blotted snap frozen in liquid nitrogen and stored at 80 C. until the total RNA extraction process for microarray analysis. The experiments conducted will be elucidated shortly herein.

The water maze experiment is based upon the premise that animals have evolved an optimal strategy to explore their environment and escape from water with a minimum effort by swimming the shortest distance possible. The two major advantages of the water maze over other dry mazes such as the radial arm maze is that the animals do not need to be water or food deprived as they are quite motivated to escape from water and the water maze task is also free from errors of omission or abortive choices as the animal will definitely make an attempt to find the platform on every trial.

Mice in both the control and treatment groups were tested in a water maze every week throughout the feeding period. The water maze 100 cm diameter and 60 cm height was filled with water 1 cm above a transparent platform 11 cm diameter and 30 cm height with a temperature of 26 C. The platform was placed at a permanent position in the north east quadrant of the maze while each mouse was released at the same position for each trial in the south west quadrant of the maze with its head pointed towards the side of the water maze. Various external cues were available and visible to each mouse swimming in the water maze such as the door lights several equipment the computer and the experimenter. Each mouse was tracked by using a Panasonic WV CP280 G colour CCTV camera which was suspended 90 about 200 cm above the center of the water level and connected to an Euresys Picolo Diligent sn 219 frame grabber board installed in a desktop with Microsoft Windows XP.

Each trial started 3 seconds after a mouse was in the arena which was defined as the circular water border in the maze and stopped at a maximum duration of 60 seconds after which the mouse was guided to the platform and left to stay there for 10 seconds or 10 seconds after the mouse found and stayed on the platform. The latency to the platform the mean distance to the platform and the mean velocity of each mice were recorded by the Ethovision XT video tracking system and software Noldus Information Technology Wageningen The Netherlands . Each mouse was tested four times during each time point with a rest period of about 5 minutes in between trials. Each mouse was towel dried after each trial before being returned to a holding cage. The first trial was excluded during data analysis as it served the purpose of acclimatizing the mouse to the maze after a week s gap from the last trial. The remaining three trials for each mouse were averaged and statistical analysis using a two tailed Student s t test was carried out on these average values in Microsoft Excel with a P

In the second analysis mice in both groups were also tested on a five laned IITC 755 Series 8 rotarod IITC Life Science Inc. Woodland Hills Calif. every week throughout the feeding period. The rotarod was started at 4 rpm and accelerated to 40 rpm over a period of 5 minutes in forward mode with a rest period of about 3 minutes in between trials. Each mouse was tested four times during each time point but the first trial was excluded during data analysis as it served the purpose of acclimatizing the mouse to the rotarod after a week s gap from the last trial. The remaining three trials for each mouse were averaged and statistical analysis using a two tailed Student s t test was carried out on these average values in Microsoft Excel with a P

For this experiment microarray analysis is preferred whereby it is one of the primary tools for dissecting molecular mechanisms in relation to antioxidants function and modulation of gene expression. Generally microarrays are known for identification of important regulated genes or biomarkers in addition to detection of combined effect of several genes belonging to a similar biological pathway 22 . Additionally phytochemicals are also known to influence gene expression 23 . Microarray analysis thus becomes an important tool to identify modulations of multiple gene networks caused by antioxidant micronutrients 25 . Concordantly in order to identify the possible molecular mechanisms involved in the neuroprotective properties of oil palm phenolics microarray analysis was carried out on brains harvested from mice in the control and treatment groups. Further this approach for analysis is preferred considering the fact that multi component and multi target botanical therapeutics administered through dietary interventions are highly valuable 21 for long term prevention and treatment of complex diseases despite the small effect on substantial number of genes of dietary interventions as compared to pharmaceutical interventions.

Total RNA isolation from mouse brains was first carried out using the RNeasy Mini Kit Qiagen Inc. Valencia Calif. and QIAshredder homogenizer Qiagen Inc. Valencia Calif. according to manufacturer s instructions. The total RNA samples obtained were subjected to NanoDrop 1000A Spectrophotometer for yield and purity assessment. Integrity of the total RNA samples was then assessed using the Agilent 2100 Bioanalyzer Agilent Technologies Palo Alto Calif. and Agilent RNA 6000 Nano Chip Assay Kit Agilent Technologies Palo Alto Calif. . Four total RNA samples with the highest RNA Integrity Numbers and 28S 18S rRNA ratios within each condition either control or treatment were then selected for microarray studies.

Amplification of total RNA samples which were of high yield purity and integrity was then carried out using the Illumina TotalPrep RNA Amplification Kit Ambion Inc. Austin Tex. according to manufacturer s instructions. The cRNA produced was then hybridized to the Illumina MouseRef 8 Expression BeadChip Illumina Inc. San Diego Calif. using the Direct Hybridization Kit Illumina Inc. San Diego Calif. . Illumina MouseRef 8 Expression BeadChips contained 50 mer gene specific probes for over 24000 genes which were designed based on the Mouse Exonic Evidence Based Oligonucleotide MEEBO set the RIKEN FANTOM 2 database and the National Center for Biotechnology Information NCBI RefSeq Release 5 transcript database. Microarray hybridization washing and scanning were carried out according to the manufacturer s instructions.

Quality control of the hybridization microarray data extraction and initial analysis were carried out using the Illumina BeadStudio software Illumina Inc. San Diego Calif. . Outlier samples were removed via hierarchical clustering analysis provided by the Illumina BeadStudio software and also using the TIGR MeV software 26 via different distance metrics. A minimum of three replicates per condition with outliers removed was then considered for further analysis. Gene expression values were normalized using the rank invariant method and genes which had a Detection Level of more than 0.99 in either the control or treatment samples were considered significantly detected. To filter the data for genes which changed significantly in terms of statistics the Illumina Custom error model was used and genes were considered significantly changed at a Differential Score of more than 13 which was equivalent to a P Value of less than 0.05 27 . Using this filtering stringency 113 genes were found to be up regulated while 145 genes were down regulated in brains of mice on a standard normal diet given oil palm phenolics when compared to the controls as provided in .

The genes and their corresponding data were then exported into the Microsoft Excel software for further analysis. To calculate fold changes an arbitrary value of 10 was given to expression values which were less than 10. Fold changes were then calculated by dividing means of Signal Y treatment with means of Signal X control if the genes were up regulated and vice versa if the genes were down regulated. Two way gene and sample hierarchical clustering of the significant genes was then performed using the TIGR MeV software to ensure that the replicates of each condition were clustered to each other. The Euclidean distance metric and average linkage method were used to carry out the hierarchical clustering analysis.

Changes in biological pathways and gene ontologies were assessed via functional analysis using the GenMAPP 28 and MAPPFinder 29 softwares. The MAPPFinder software ranks GenMAPPs pathways and gene ontologies based on the hypergeometric distribution. Readers are referred to 29 for further explanations of the terms used in the MAPPFinder software. GenMAPPs and gene ontologies which had Permuted P Values of less than 0.05 Numbers of Genes Changed of more than or equal to 2 and Z Scores of more than 2 were considered significant. Up and down regulated genes were analyzed separately in this functional enrichment analysis. It should be noted that the MAPPFinder software clusters multiple probes for a distinct gene into a single gene grouping in order to calculate the number of distinct genes which meet the user defined criteria not the probes.

The GenMAPPs and gene ontologies considered significantly up regulated are shown in TABLE 1 below. Most of the significant functions up regulated in brains of mice include those involved in neurotrophic activity. These include functions such as nervous system development neurotransmitter transport striated muscle contraction synaptic transmission synaptogenesis calcium ion binding calmodulin binding potassium ion transport and transmembrane receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase activity.

On the other hand genes involved in acute phase response aldehyde metabolism hormone mediated signalling lipid metabolism oxidoreductase activity prostaglandin synthesis regulation tumour necrosis factor alpha nuclear factor kappaB TNF NF B signalling focal adhesion and amino acid metabolism on the other hand were down regulated as shown in TABLE 2.

Changes in regulatory networks were also analyzed through the use of Ingenuity Pathways Analysis software Ingenuity Systems Redwood City Calif. 30 . A data set containing differentially expressed genes and their corresponding fold changes was uploaded into the application. Analysis of up and down regulated genes was carried out separately. Each gene identifier was mapped to its corresponding gene object in the Ingenuity Pathways Knowledge Base. These genes were overlaid onto a global molecular network developed from information contained in the Ingenuity Pathways Knowledge Base. Networks of these focus genes were then algorithmically generated based on their connectivity.

A network can be used for providing a graphical representation of the molecular relationships between genes gene products. Genes or gene products are represented as nodes and the biological relationship between two nodes is represented as an edge line . The intensity of the node color indicates the degree of up red or down green regulation. Nodes are displayed using various shapes that represent the functional class of the gene product. Edges are displayed with various labels that describe the nature of the relationship between the nodes. Gene descriptions which were not referenced emanated directly from the Ingenuity Pathways Analysis software.

An up regulated network obtained by this analysis is shown in . It is observed that Arc Cast Gria Kcnb Kcnab Homer Dlgap Dlgh Sv Stx Gucy Ncald Bzrap and Pclo are under the regulation of the brain derived neurotrophic factor Bdnf and this represents a network by which oil palm phenolics up regulated genes involved in neuronal network maintenance and signalling.

Overall genes in several pathways were found to be regulated in brains of mice supplemented with oil palm phenolics. For example genes which are involved in calcium ion binding calmodulin binding potassium ion transport and transmembrane receptor protein tyrosine phosphatase activity were up regulated. It is interesting to note that these genes are implicated to have neuroprotective roles as similar genes were found to be up regulated by extracts of leaves 31 which are already marketed as supplements to combat Alzheimer s disease depression short term memory loss as well as lack of attention and vigilance. Tyrosine phosphatase is associated with the formation or breakdown of intracellular neurofibrillary tangles a hallmark lesion of Alzheimer s disease while ionotropic glutamate receptor plays an integral role in synaptogenesis and the formation of neuronal circuitry 31 . Both of these types of genes Ptprn Ptprt and Gria were found to be up regulated by oil palm phenolics.

Incidentally genes involved in nervous system development neurotransmitter transport striated muscle contraction synaptic transmission and synaptogenesis were also up regulated and these thereby support the observation that oil palm phenolics enhanced memory and cognitive function. Interestingly many of these genes were under the regulation of Bdnf as suitably seen in which influences the differentiation and survival of neurons and the maintenance of their arborizations. Bdnf is also involved in both short and long term plasticity of glutamatergic synapses as well as enhances synaptic maturation increases synaptic density in the hippocampus and induces local dendritically targeted protein synthesis 32 . Although the Bdnf gene was not found to be significantly up regulated in this study the up regulation of the genes directly under its regulation suggests that this gene may play a probable role as well possibly at the protein level.

Transcription factors involved in protein synthesis such as Fos Egr and Egr were also up regulated 1.95 fold 1.68 fold and 1.75 fold respectively . Incidentally the rate of protein synthesis in brains of ovariectomized female rats were also found to be up regulated by quercetin 33 an antioxidant found in apples and this suggests that oil palm phenolics may increase the synthesis of proteins required for brain functions. The Fos gene for example is a marker of neuronal activity and plasticity. The age related decline of Fos in the hippocampi of aged rats was also found to be attenuated by the ginsenoside Rg1 from 34 .

The neuro plasticity associated Arc gene which is a direct transcriptional target of Egr transcription factors was also up regulated by oil palm phenolics. Similar to the Egrs the Arc gene is rapidly induced by synaptic activity and its expression depends upon excitatory synaptic NMDA receptor activation and intracellular MAPK signalling and it has a critical role in maintaining long term potentiation and long term memory 35 . Dlgh or Psd is a post synaptic marker which was significantly decreased by beta amyloids but induced by withanosides from Ashwagandha root of which is a herbal drug in ayurvedic medicine commonly used as a tonic and nootropic agent 36 .

On the other hand genes involved in acute phase response aldehyde metabolism hormone mediated signalling lipid metabolism oxidoreductase activity prostaglandin synthesis regulation and tumour necrosis factor alpha nuclear factor kappaB TNF NF B signalling were down regulated in brains of mice supplemented with oil palm phenolics. For example the gene encoding secreted phosphoprotein or osteopontin Spp the gene encoding serum amyloid A Saa and the gene encoding apolipoprotein D Apod were down regulated.

Osteopontin is a pro inflammatory protein reported to be up regulated in several types of cancer and multiple sclerosis 37 . The levels of serum amyloid A proteins which are members of the acute phase protein family are increased in response to various injuries and have been implicated in the pathogenesis of chronic inflammatory diseases 38 . For example the serum amyloid A isoform is involved in amyloid formation in brain aging 39 . On the other hand apolipoprotein D is associated with excitoxic stress resulting in brain aging 39 40 and Parkinson s disease 41 . Other genes involved in inflammation such as Vwf and Tnfrsfwere also down regulated as provided in .

Genes involved in focal adhesion were also down regulated in brains of mice given oil palm phenolics. Focal adhesion is a mechanism embodying the actin and cytoskeleton cell connections of a cell to the extracellular matrix. Actb a normal housekeeping gene used for real time polymerase chain reaction PCR studies and involved in focal adhesion was found to be down regulated. Actin is a cytoskeletal protein which is found in elevated amounts in Alzheimer s disease and in reactive glia. Its expression in the brain was found to be down regulated by grape seed extract which is enriched with proanthocyanidins 42 . Bcar a gene implicated in induction of cell migration and conferring anti estrogen resistance on breast cancer cells when overexpressed 43 was down regulated as well.

In addition genes involved in alanine aspartate valine leucine and isoleucine metabolism were down regulated. The prevention of the oxidation of some amino acids by had been implied in preventing the formation of amyloid fibrils in Alzheimer s disease 44 . Other functions down regulated include electron transporter activity GTPase activator activity and intracellular signalling cascade. Dnajc which encodes a chaperone protein was down regulated. The up regulation of a related gene expressing the DnaJ homologue 1 Hsp40 was also found to be attenuated 100 by caloric restriction 39 . In addition two homeobox genes Hoxa and Hoxb have been turned off as their expression in the brain could not be detected after the supplementation of oil palm phenolics. Hoxb is up regulated in incipient Alzheimer s disease 45 .

The up regulation of genes involved in brain development and activity as well as down regulation of genes involved in inflammation in brains of mice thus further supports that oil palm phenolics have neuroprotective and anti inflammatory effects. This is in line with the observations made when blueberry antioxidants were supplemented to F344 rats in which the improvement in cognitive performance was related to an increase in neuronal signalling and neurogenesis 2 . In addition these microarray results are also in correlation with the results of epicatechin supplementation to C57BL 6 mice in which genes involved in learning were up regulated while those involved in inflammation were down regulated 10 .

Two step real time qRT PCR studies were carried out on two selected target genes using TaqMan Gene Expression Assays Applied Biosystems Foster City Calif. . The same aliquots of total RNA samples used in the microarray experiments were utilized for this analysis. Primer and probe sets for the selected genes were obtained from the ABI Inventoried Assays On Demand Applied Biosystems Foster City Calif. . Reverse transcription to generate first strand cDNA from total RNA was carried out using the High Capacity cDNA Reverse Transcription Kit Applied Biosystems Foster City Calif. . Real time PCR was then carried out on the first strand cDNA generated using a 25 L reaction volume in an ABI 7000 Real Time PCR System Applied Biosystems Foster City Calif. according to manufacturer s instructions. Reactions for each biological replicate and non template controls NTCs were carried out in duplicates.

Quality control of the replicates used real time qRT PCR data extraction and initial analysis were carried out using the 7000 Sequence Detection System software Applied Biosystems Foster City Calif. . A manual threshold of 0.6000 and an auto baseline were applied in order to obtain the threshold cycle Ct for each measurement taken. The threshold was chosen as it intersected the exponential phase of the amplification plots 46 . The criteria for quality control of the data obtained include Ct of less than 0.5 between technical replicates and Ct of more than 5.0 between samples and NTCs 47 .

Relative quantification of the target genes of interest was carried out using the qBase 1.3.5 software 48 which takes into account the calculations of amplification efficiencies and multiple housekeeping genes. Expression levels of target genes were normalized to the geometric mean of three housekeeping genes Sfrs Guk and Hnrpab. Stability of these housekeeping genes was assessed using the geNorm 3.5 software 49 . A statistical model for group wise comparison the Pair Wise Fixed Reallocation Randomization Test embedded in the REST 384 2.0 software 50 was used for statistical analysis of the data obtained.

The fold changes obtained from the real time qRT PCR technique were accepted as comparable to those obtained from the microarray technique as seen and plotted in thus evidencing that the microarray data analysis carried out was reliable.

Generally the composition comprising oil palm phenolics may be prepared in various suitable forms for direct or oral administration in a patient in need thereof efficacious for providing neuroprotective effects prevention of neurodegerative diseases and diseases related thereto and providing improvement of cognitive and motor functions.

The composition comprising oil palm phenolics of the present invention may be prepared for use in a pharmaceutically effective or nutraceutically effective amount solely on its own or in combination with other agents or compounds deemed appropriate by a person skilled in the art.

It is noted that the term pharmaceutically effective and nutraceutically effective amount includes a quantification that is acceptable for providing neuroprotective effects prevention of neurodegerative diseases and diseases related thereto and providing improvement of cognitive and motor functions properties.

In one embodiment the composition comprising oil palm phenolics may be administered in form of doses within a predetermined period of time whereby it may be administered for example but not limiting to daily weekly or monthly.

In another embodiment the composition comprising oil palm phenolics may be provided in conventional treatment forms pharmaceutical formulations or as nutritional supplement.

It is understood by a person skilled in the art that the methods for experiments and studies are described as exemplifications herein and thus the results are not intended however to limit or restrict the scope of the invention in any way and should not be construed as providing conditions parameters agents or starting materials which must be utilized exclusively in order to practice the present invention. It is therefore understood that the invention may be practiced within the scope of the appended claims with equivalent methods for the experiments than as specifically described and stated in claims.

