---

title: Customized behavior of a control layer towards an application server in a packet-based network
abstract: System(s) and method(s) are provided for regulating interaction amongst an application layer and a control layer in a packet-based core network. A data structure is provisioned in a centralized repository; the data structure includes (i) at least one procedure for regulating interaction amongst a session control component within the control layer and application server within the application layer, and (ii) an identification (ID) field attribute that uniquely identifies the data structure. To regulate such interaction, the session control component acquires a set of provisioned data structures; acquisition is automatic and can be dictated, in part, by generation of a data structure, or modification of an existing data structure or an ID field attribute. Based at least on an ID field attribute retained in a subscriber service profile, the session control component references a data structure identified by the ID field attribute and implements one or more procedures retained in such data structure. Implementation of the one or more procedure regulates the interaction between the session control component and the application server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08655996&OS=08655996&RS=08655996
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 08655996
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100630
---
The subject disclosure relates generally to communication networks and more specifically to regulation of interaction amongst an application server a control layer in an internet protocol IP based network such as an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS network or most any or any packet based network.

Various services in advanced networks wireless or wireline rely on packet based protocols for delivery of data and signaling. Such advanced networks generally exploit a group of application servers that generate at least part of the data and signaling that provide content and enable specific functionality associated with a service such as voice over internet protocol VoIP IP multimedia content delivery caller identification ID in IP television etc. In certain architectures the group of servers is deployed in an application layer which is functionally coupled to a control layer that typically includes several session control components that enable a service session e.g. a VoIP call a data call delivery of a pay per view movie . . . . An example of such architecture is 3GPP IP Multimedia System IMS core network. In 3Generation Partnership Project 3GPP IMS core network a session control component is embodied in a control session control function CSCF node which can be a Serving CSCF S CSCF node an Interrogating CSCF I CSCF node a Proxy CSCF P CSCF or a transit function node.

To enable the service session generally a session control component exploits a predetermined configuration that dictates interaction with one or more application servers in accordance specific criteria that are part of the configuration and are related to the service session and an originating or terminating service subscriber. In addition the specific criteria dictate at least in part routing aspects of the service session. In conventional networks a network operator typically defines the features of the predetermined configuration. In addition such predetermined configuration is i largely static and specific to a session control component e.g. S CSCF node ii substantially manually provisioned and iii generic rather than specific with respect to the various types of ASs that are commonly deployed. As network operators add new service accounts deploy new technologies that enable additional capabilities for existing services and put forward new services associated with the new technologies complexity of the interaction amongst the control layer and the application layer increases rapidly. Thus in conventional systems the foregoing aspects of configurations that regulate behavior of a session control component towards an application server can hinder migration towards new network technologies and rich sophisticated services.

The following presents a simplified summary of the subject disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects thereof. The subject summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosure and it is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the disclosure nor delineate any scope. The sole purpose of the subject summary is to present some concepts of the disclosure in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

One or more embodiments of the subject disclosure provide system s and method s for regulating interaction and various specific aspects thereof amongst a control layer component and an application server in a packet based network such as an IP based network of which an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS network and a VoIP network are examples. A data structure is provisioned in a centralized network repository the data structure includes i at least one procedure for interaction amongst a session control component within the control layer and an application server within the application layer and ii a field attribute that uniquely identifies the data structure. To regulate such interaction and associated specific aspects the session control component acquires a set of provisioned data structures. Acquisition is automatic and can be dictated at least in part by one or more of generation of a data structure or modification of an existing data structure or an ID field attribute. In addition based at least on an ID field attribute retained in a subscriber service profile available to the session control component the session control component references a data structure identified by the ID field attribute and implements one or more procedures retained in such data structure. Implementation of the one or more procedures regulate the interaction and related specific aspects thereof amongst the session control component and the application server.

Aspects features or advantages of the subject innovation can be exploited in most any or any packet based core network that provides packet based service s to a subscriber device based at least on session establishment and via an application server.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the disclosure then comprises the features hereinafter fully described. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the disclosure. However these aspects are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the subject disclosure may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the subject disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The subject disclosure is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject innovation. It may be evident however that the subject innovation may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the subject innovation.

As used in this application the terms component system platform layer node selector interface and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the entity can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server or network controller and the server or network controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that confers at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Furthermore in the subject disclosure the term set is intended to refer to groups of one or more entities for example a set of data packets refers to one or more data packets. However as employed herein the term subset can include the empty set unless otherwise noted as in cases in which for instance disclosure of a subset of one or more entities is intended to expressly avoid the empty subset.

Further yet the terms user subscriber customer consumer prosumer agent and the like are employed interchangeably throughout the subject specification unless context warrants particular distinction s among the terms. It should be appreciated that such terms can refer to human entities or automated components supported through artificial intelligence e.g. a capacity to make inference based on complex mathematical formalisms which can provide simulated vision sound recognition and so forth.

As described in greater detail below the various system s and method s in the subject disclosure provide configuration of service policy ies that regulate interaction and related specific aspects thereof between a session control component e.g. a S CSCF node in 3GPP IMS core network and at least one application in a set of applications servers within an application layer . Such configuration does not rely on customization of subscriber service profile s but rather the configuration exploits data structure s or data object s such as AS profile s procedure s within the AS profile s and ID tag s that identify AS profile s that are not available in conventional network systems. AS profile s are centralized which affords automation of provisioning of AS profile s and related data such as ID tag s and procedure s associated with the AS profile s to session control component s . In addition system s and method s described herein afford specific usage and acquisition of the foregoing data structure s . The various aspects or features of the subject disclosure can be exploited to customize interaction amongst most any or any session control component e.g. a S CSCF in a 3GPP IMS core network and a network node that is functionally coupled to the session control component and provides specific service s or application functionality to a subscriber device. For instance such network node can be lawful intercept gateway LIG emergency service signaling server e.g. E 911 signaling server or the like. It is noted that in the subject disclosure a subscriber device is an apparatus user equipment customer premises equipment etc. mobile or otherwise with wireless or wireline telecommunication functionality.

With reference to the drawings is a schematic example network system that can operate in accordance with aspects described herein. A packet based core network provides a variety of services to a subscriber. The services include numerous packet based services e.g. IP based services comprising VoIP video exchange digital music exchange digital photograph exchange IP Television IPTV clips or most any or any packetized digital content. In one or more embodiments packet based core network is a 3GPP IMS core network. Service can be provided at least in part via a protocol for session establishment such as session initiation protocol SIP or the H.323 suite of signaling protocols. Packet based core network includes a control layer that enables session establishment control and routing functionality for service sessions also referred to herein as sessions. Sessions primarily include data sessions for example VoIP call sessions. Control layer can receive signaling that conveys a request to establish a session call session data session etc. and in response to such request routes the session to one or more application servers. In example network system the one or more application servers ASs are part of a set of application servers that are deployed within an application layer .

To route the session control layer includes a session control component that acquires retrieves receives etc. A a subscriber profile that contains data specific to a subscriber or subscriber device associated with the session wherein the data regulates at least in part routing to the one or more application servers and B an application server profile. Subscriber profile is also referred to herein as subscriber service profile. The AS profile represents a group of AS instances which can be instances of the same type of AS. In addition the AS profile includes data that specifies interaction and related aspects thereof amongst the AS profile and the session control component e.g. a S CSCF node in 3GPP IMS core network during session processing voice call processing data call processing etc. . Conventional systems do not provision AS profile s as elements that customize routing of a session request associated with a service. In an aspect the subscriber service profile is linked in a one to one relationship with the AS profile whereas the AS profile can be associated with an application server through a one to one one to many many to many relationship. An identification ID field attribute or tag that uniquely identifies the AS profile provides the linkage between the subscriber service profile and the AS profile the AS ID field attribute is part of the subscriber service profile and the AS profile. Inclusion of the ID field attribute in the subscriber service profile affords subscriber device level customization of behavior of the session control component e.g. S CSCF node in 3GPP IMS core network and the AS associated with the AS profile linked to the ID field attribute thus uniformity of such behavior across application servers is largely mitigated or completely avoided. It should be appreciated that in conventional network systems e.g. standardized 3GPP IMS core network the interaction amongst the session control component and an AS is specified primarily by a subscriber profile and is independent of subscriber device that originates a request for service or is a termination point for a request for service. In addition in conventional network systems the subscriber profile does not regulate or specify various details of such interaction in contrast numerous aspects or features of the subject disclosure regulate details of the interaction amongst the session control component and an AS.

In contrast to conventional network systems logic that dictates interaction and related features thereof amongst the session control component and the one or more ASs is included in the AS profile. Accordingly and in contrast to conventional network systems in the subject disclosure a subscriber service profile does not include procedure s that specify interaction amongst the session control component and the one or more ASs. The logic can include at least one procedure comprising one or more sets of computer executable code instructions wherein the at least one procedure in response to execution by at least one processor not shown in or at least one component implements the interaction and related aspects thereof amongst the session control component and the one or more ASs. The subscriber service profile can be part of a set of subscriber profiles and the AS profile can be part of a set of AS profiles both the set of subscriber profiles and the set of AS profiles are retained in a memory not shown within centralized repository . In embodiments in which packet based core network is a 3GPP IMS core network session control component can be a S CSCF node and the centralized network repository can be a Home Subscriber Server HSS .

Various additional features of subscriber profile s and AS profile s and acquisition thereof and routing of a session in accordance with aspects of the subject disclosure are described next.

Data in a subscriber profile e.g. subscriber profile Q with Q a positive integer can include one or more filter criteria that specify features of routing of a session voice call session data call session etc. in an 3GPP IMS core network the one or more filter criteria are referred to as initial filter criteria IFC . In example network system in an aspect of the subject disclosure the one or more filter criteria are part of a set of filter criteria within the subscriber profile e.g. subscriber profile Q . The one or more filter criteria establish at least one criterion type of call time of call specific message etc. based on which the session control component e.g. a S CSCF node in 3GPP IMS core network routes the session through a group of ASs e.g application server s . The at least one criterion dictates specific invocation of an AS in response to a request for service or session initiation. In addition the one or more filter criteria can establish the order in which the session control component evaluates such filter criteria. A first portion of the data can control the routing in case the session is originated by a subscriber device and a second portion of the data controls the routing in case the session terminates in the subscriber device. The first portion of data can include a first set of filter criteria e.g. at least one IFC in 3GPP IMS core network that determines a first set of ASs that the session control component can invoke whereas the second portion of data can include a second set of filter criteria that determines a second set of ASs that the session control component can invoke.

In contrast to conventional systems each filter criterion e.g. filter criterion also referred to as filter in a subscriber profile e.g. subscriber profile Q includes AS identification ID field attribute e.g. ID tag that as described supra uniquely indentifies an AS profile AS profile P in a set of AS profiles . The ID field attribute e.g. ID tag logically points to an associated AS profile AS profile P . Indices S Q and P are natural numbers greater than or equal to unity.

A network operator that administers e.g. owns and manages or leases and manages packet based core network can configure the specific ID field attribute e.g. ID tag to be associated with a filter criterion such as filter . Such configuration can be based on design considerations such as services provided through the packet based core network subscriber segment s served by the network operator technology employed in an access network not shown to provide a service or the like. Additionally a filter criterion e.g. filter with S a positive integer can include a group of fields e.g. field s that can characterize one or more instances of an application server or a group of application servers. For example one such field can be an AS Uniform Resource Identifier URI that can be resolved into multiple instances of an AS to provide fault resilience operation routing of a session AS functionality etc. . In addition the group of fields can include a first field that identifies and logically points e.g. includes a reference to a specific memory address or register to an AS and a second field that identifies the AS.

An AS profile e.g. AS profile is a data structure that includes an ID attribute field e.g. ID tag and at least one procedure e.g. set of procedure s . As described supra the AS profile is provisioned e.g. designed and committed to memory storage to supply at least one procedure to a session control component e.g. a S CSCF node in 3GPP IMS core network wherein the at least one procedure determines at least in part interaction and specific aspects thereof of the session control component with at least one AS during session processing. The ID field attribute serves as a logical handle that can be referenced by from a subscriber service profile thus the AS profile defines behavior of the session control component toward the at least one AS for a specific subscriber device. A network operator that manages packet based core network can invoke different services enabled by different application servers and allow session control logic dictated by one or more procedures to customize interaction with the different AS servers at the subscriber level. In an illustrative scenario interaction of a session control component e.g. a S CSCF in 3GPP IMS core network with a single AS can be different for a plurality of different subscriber devices a plurality of subscriber service profiles respectively linked to the plurality of different subscriber devices can identify the single AS but can reference various disparate AS profiles via corresponding ID field attributes. The different subscriber devices can be linked to a single subscriber or to a segment of subscribers of one or more services e.g. high speed internet service wireline telephony digital multimedia delivery or the like provided by the network operator.

In another illustrative scenario for a first subscriber device an AS of a first type e.g. Type I can be important e.g. Type I AS provides a desirable feature . In the alternative for a second subscriber device an AS of a second type e.g. Type II can be critical for example AS of Type II provides an application feature that enables adequate operation of the second subscriber device. In addition for a third subscriber device AS of Type I can be critical while for a fourth subscriber device AS of Type II can be important. Thus a network operator that administers packet based core network can create AS profiles according to relevancy A first AS profile for critical operation of AS of Type I a second AS profile for important operation of AS of Type a third AS profile for second AS of Type II for important yet not critical operation and a fourth AS profile for critical operation of AS of Type II. Such AS profiles can be identified in suitable subscriber service profiles and can each have different procedures that regulate behavior of a session control component e.g. S CSCF node in 3GPP IMS core network towards AS of Type I and AS of Type II. Thus provisioning of a group of disparate AS profiles mitigates proliferation of instances of application servers. Moreover from the foregoing description a feature termed profile overloading emerges wherein profile overloading represents the capability of associated more than AS profile to a single AS. Profile overloading provides configuration flexibility that is generally unavailable in conventional systems. It should be appreciated that in conventional systems a session control component can re try access to an AS that provides caller ID over IPTV in the same manner that it retries access to an AS that provides a more critical service for a service session e.g. voice call . Yet profile overloading and other aspects or features of the subject disclosure enable configuring a number of re tries effected for a specific AS in accordance at least with an AP profile associated with the AS.

In addition the AS profile is agnostic with respect to application server a field within a subscriber service profile identifies the AS and the ID field attribute field within the subscriber service profile references or points to the AS profile that contains the ID field attribute. Accordingly in an aspect a single AS profile can be employed for disparate servers whether the servers are different instances of the same type of server or different type of servers.

A procedure includes one or more of a set of computer executable code instruction or a set of data objects. The procedure is re configurable and extensible the set of computer executable code instructions and the set of data objects each can be re configured e.g. parameter values or logical variable re defined augmented or reduced. A provisioning server not shown in packet based core network can provision the AS profile and an instance of the procedure s therein such instance defines computer executable code instructions that are part of the procedure s and available data objects related to the procedure s . While the actual implementation of an AS profile e.g. AS profile P with P a positive integer can vary based at least on how such data object is defined and utilized in the centralized repository e.g. HSS in 3GPP IMS core network procedure s within the AS profile can include the group of example instructions and data listed below particular format of the example instructions and data is dictated by such implementation RDBMS ODBMS XML etc. 

 a Time To Live Numerical parameter that established a time interval that defines expiration of the AS profile. For instance the value of Time To Live parameter determines the time interval is the time span allotted to the AS profile before a session control component e.g. S CSCF in 3GPP IMS core network is allowed to re acquire e.g. re download the AS Profile to refresh a local copy in the session control component.

It should be appreciated that such data object is unavailable is conventional systems. Moreover in conventional systems timers available to a session control component are afforded by a subscriber service profile and configured manually for the session control component. In contrast a timer such as Time To Live timer is available to a session control component automatically after an AS profile that defines such timer is automatically acquired by the session control component. Since control layers such as control layer conventionally include 10 10session control components automatic configuration described herein increases efficiency of data provisioning dramatically while reducing error incidence usually related with processes that demand manual intervention.

 b Transaction Bypass If set to yes a session control component e.g. S CSCF in 3GPP IMS core network does not route SIP messages for a current transaction via an identified AS. The subject data object establishes behavior of the session control component determines whether or not the session control component routes SIP messages e.g. responses in the same transaction to the AS. While reference is made to SIP messages substantially the same data object can be defined for session establishment protocols other than SIP.

 c Dialog Bypass If set to yes a session control component e.g. S CSCF in 3GPP IMS core network is not enable to route other SIP messages for a current dialog through an identified application server.

 d Invite Message Retransmission Limit A positive integer that determines a number of times a session control component e.g. S CSCF in 3GPP IMS core network re transmits an INVITE message to an AS instance. It is noted that while reference is made in the subject data object to an INVITE which is typical of SIP the subject data object can be defined in substantially the same manner for other forms of request indications to establish a session within a packet base core network. For instance the subject data object can be defined for request indications that include session setup signaling within the H.225 protocol of the H.323 suite of signaling protocols.

 e Non Invite Message Retransmission Limit A positive integer that governs how many times an S CSCF re transmits a Non Invite message to an application server instance. It is noted that while reference is made in the subject data object to an NON INVITE which is typical of SIP the subject data object can be defined in substantially the same manner for other forms of request indications to establish a session within a packet base core network. For instance the subject data object can be defined for request indications that include session setup signaling within the H.225 protocol of the H.323 suite of signaling protocols.

 f AS Retry Limit A positive integer that conveys to a session control component e.g. S CSCF in 3GPP IMS core network a number of alternate application server instances e.g. an AS in a disparate physical location or logical location that the session control component should re try if the session control component sends a SIP message to an AS instance but receives no response. The subject data object establishes behavior of the session control component if it is not able to reach an instance of an AS thus the AS profile enhances conventional network systems that fails to afford such behavior.

 g AS HB Boolean flag that indicates whether a session control component e.g. S CSCF in 3GPP IMS core network is enabled to heartbeat each instance of the AS. The subject data object establishes behavior of the session control component to determine whether or not the session control component heartbeats the AS. In addition a supplemental data object or instruction can be defined to determine a protocol or method employed for the heartbeats.

 h AS ST Use Boolean variable or flag that governs whether a session control component e.g. S CSCF in 3GPP IMS core network supports session timers for dialogs to the specific AS. The subject data object establishes behavior of the session control component that determines whether session timers are to be supported for dialogs involving the AS thus the AS profile enhances conventional network systems that fails to afford such behavior.

 j Comment String variable that can list actual application server instances to which the AS Profile is applicable.

The session control component can acquire a subscriber service profile from the set of subscriber profiles in response to registration of the subscriber device with an access network not shown . Prior to activating the subscriber device for example when a subscriber who operates the subscriber device requests service from a network operator which manages packet based core network the network operator assigns the session control component e.g. an S CSCF node to the subscriber device. Based on such assignment the session control component can respond to registration power on roaming inter RAT handover etc. of the assigned subscriber device on the access network not shown . Session control component retains an acquired subscriber profile in memory storage register database file s etc. . The acquired subscriber profile includes one or more filter criteria that in addition to comprising at least one field that identifies an AS include an ID tag that identifies an AS profile related to the identified AS. In certain embodiments e.g. example embodiment illustrated in session control component includes an acquisition component that can extract a set of subscriber service profiles and store such set in a memory which is local to the session control component .

In an aspect of the subject disclosure in response to acquisition of the subscriber profile and based on one or more ID tags e.g. ID tag with K a positive integer in a set of filter criteria e.g. set which comprises filter K with ID tag and field s included in the subscriber service profile e.g. subscriber profile K the session control component automatically acquires a group of AS profiles e.g. set of AS profiles which includes AS profile M with M a positive integer and data stored therein e.g. ID tag and procedure s . Accordingly the group of AS profiles is specific to the subscriber profile that is acquired by session control component thus data in each AS profile within the group of AS profiles is specific to the subscriber device linked to the subscriber profile. Numerous aspects of interaction of session control component with one or more instances of an AS associated with an AS profile e.g. AS profile M in the group of AS profiles is thus particular to the subscriber device. The group of AS profiles is retained in memory storage that can be part of session control component or that is functionally coupled thereto. As an example memory storage can be memory .

Acquisition of a group of AS profiles can include features that promote acquisition integrity. For at least one AS ID tag e.g. AS ID tag included in an acquired subscriber profile e.g. subscriber profile session control component can verify that at least one AS profile identified by the at least one AS ID tag is acquired e.g. retrieved or uploaded and in case it has been acquired the at least one AS profile is free from error. In addition session control component can verify that the at least one AS profile is current rather than expired. Expiration can be determined for example by state e.g. elapsed time or clock counts of a timer that measures time remaining for the at least one profile to be valid. Time allotted to the at least one AS profile to be valid or lifetime of the at least one AS profile is configurable and specific to the at least one AS profile as described supra a numerical parameter e.g. Time To Live instruction in the at least one AS profile can dictate the lifetime of the at least one AS profile. In case the at least one AS profile has not been acquired properly or it has expired session control component can re acquire the at least one AS profile. Alternatively in case the at least one AS profile has not been acquired session control component can extract the at least one AS profile from the centralized network repository which can be embodied in an HSS in scenarios in which packet based core network is embodied in a 3GPP IMS core network. In certain scenarios session control component can perform an integrity cycle for each AS profile identified in the acquired subscriber profile while in alternative or additional scenarios a predetermined sub set of one or more AP profiles is verified. In certain embodiments e.g. example embodiment illustrated in session control component includes an integrity component that can perform the integrity cycle and convey signaling to acquisition component to extract specific AS profile s from memory in response to outcome of the integrity cycle in accordance with aspects described supra.

Based at least on an ID tag that identifies an AS profile session control component can access the AS profile which determines details of the interaction of the session control component with the AS linked to the AS profile. As described supra such details of the interaction and thus the interaction itself are specific to the subscriber device that is the originating point of a session or the terminating point of a session. It should be noted that such access to the AS profile is unavailable in conventional system networks such as standardized 3GPP IMS core network. In response to accessing the AS profile session control component can route a session linked to a request for service in accordance with at least one procedure that is part of the AS profile that is accessed. In certain embodiments e.g. example embodiment illustrated in session control component includes a routing component that accesses the AS profile. In addition routing component can implement e.g. execute at least in part the at least one procedure that is part of the AS profile and dictates details of the interaction and thus the interaction itself with an application server instance which can be part of the set of application server s for example .

In example embodiment the session control component includes one or more processor s configured to provide or that provide at least part of the described functionality of the various components within the session control component . Processor s can execute computer executable code instructions not shown in stored in memory to provide the described functionality of session control component . Such computer executable code instructions can include program modules or software application s or firmware application s that implement for example various of the methods described in the subject disclosure and associated at least in part with functionality of session control component . It should be appreciated that each of the one or more processor s can be a centralized element or a distributed element. In distributed scenarios the one or more processor s can be part of the various components that comprise session control component . Memory also stores data such as data structures data objects metadata numerical variables and parameters logical variables or the like. In addition processor s memory and the various components within session control component can exchange data and signaling via bus . In an aspect bus can be embodied in one or more of a system bus an address bus a message bus a memory bus a power bus in accordance with various hardware firmware or software implementations.

In one or more embodiments such as example embodiment illustrated in the centralized network repository can supply one or more AS profiles to session control component the one or more AS profiles are supplied automatically e.g. without human intervention . The one or more AS profiles can be supplied in response to generation thereof. In example embodiment monitor component can detect generation of an AS profile and in response monitor component can instruct sourcing component to deliver the AS profile to the session control component . In an aspect monitor component can detect generation of an AS profile by probing a memory storage that retains a set of AS profiles. At least two distinctions with respect to the conventional network systems are application to such delivery of AS profile s in response to generation thereof. First as described supra conventional network systems lack centralized AS profiles as described herein. Second as described supra generation of an AS profile can be overloaded with respect to an AS for which the AS profile regulates details of the interaction of the session control component e.g. S CSCF node in 3GPP IMS core network with the AS. Different subscriber devices can have disparate AS profiles associated with the same AS subscriber devices can be linked to a specific subscriber or to a specific subscriber segment landline service subscribers cellular service subscribers femtocell service subscribers etc. .

In addition or in the alternative the one or more AS profiles can be supplied in response to changes to content of one or more AS profiles or modifications to AS ID tags. In example embodiment centralized network repository includes a monitor component that can track the set of AS profiles that are acquired e.g. retrieved or extracted by the session control component . In an aspect as part of tracking such set monitor component creates a record of an AS profile that is acquired by the session control component the record can be created e.g. issued and stored in an access record store within a memory that is part of the centralized network repository . After creation of the record of the AS profile and in response to such creation monitor component probes state of the AS profile and an AS ID tag that uniquely identifies the AS profile. As described supra the AS ID tag can reside within a filter criterion e.g. an IFC in a 3GPP IMS network in a subscriber profile and in the AS profile. In an aspect monitor component can probe the AS profile and the related AS ID tag in polling mode wherein monitor component polls memory storage set of registers a database etc. that retains the AS profile or a disparate memory storage that contains a group of subscriber profiles. In polling mode monitor component can poll such memory storage periodically at predetermined times or based on occurrence of predetermined events. In situations in which monitor component establishes based on the tracking that the AS profile or the AS ID tag or both are updated monitor component can deliver signaling a directive a set of bits a lightweight file etc. that indicates such an update to sourcing component . In response to such signaling sourcing component can supply e.g. retrieve and deliver data related to the updated AS profile e.g. AS profile P or the updated AS ID tag e.g. AS ID tag to the session control component or a component therein e.g. acquisition component . Data related to the updated AS profile can be a portion e.g. an instruction or a data element of the AS profile that is updated. In addition such data can encompass the entire updated AS profile.

In the illustrated example embodiment centralized network repository includes one or more processor s configured to provide or that provide at least part of the described functionality of monitor component and sourcing component . The one or more processor s can execute computer executable code instructions not shown in stored in memory element access record storage to provide the described functionality of session control component . Such computer executable code instructions can include program modules or software application s or firmware application s that implement for example various of the methods described in the subject disclosure and associated at least in part with functionality of session control component . It should be appreciated that each of the one or more processor s can be a centralized element or a distributed element. In distributed scenarios the one or more processor s can be part of the various components that comprise centralized network repository . Memory also stores data such as data structures data objects metadata numerical variables and parameters logical variables or the like. In addition processor s memory and the various components within centralized network repository can exchange data and signaling via bus . In an aspect bus can be embodied in one or more of a system bus an address bus a message bus a memory bus a power bus in accordance with various hardware firmware or software implementations.

In an aspect of the subject disclosure exchange of data amongst the packet base core network and the centralized network repository e.g. HSS in an IMS core network is performed through a new Diameter message. The new Diameter message enables requesting the AS profile and delivering the AS profile through a reference point in the interface between a control layer that includes the session control component and the centralized network repository . Interface can be embodied in at least one of conventional link s e.g. a fiber optic link an Ethernet link a T1 E1 line wireless link s . . . reference link s e.g. Gi Gn . . . or one or more components of an access network which can wireline or wireless and private semiprivate or public. In scenarios in which the session control layer is a CSCF layer in 3GPP IMS core network and the centralized repository is an HSS the reference point is the Cx extended reference point.

Based on the description supra at least the following example advantages of the subject disclosure emerge. A first example advantage is reduction of cost associated with time expended in manual or substantially manual configuration of data such as subscriber profiles in a session control component e.g. S CSCF I CSCF or P CSCF in 3GPP IMS core network or in implementation of remediation procedures associated with errors in configuration stemming from such manual intervention. Reduction of time is afforded by the automated configuration of session control component s described herein and the centralized character of the provisioned AS profiles. While configuration can be effected based in part on a custom Diameter protocol that enables data exchange through a reference point e.g. Cx for 3GPP IMS core network and HSS in the interface amongst the packet based core network and the centralized network repository standardized or conventional protocols for data exchange can be employed. A second example advantage is superior flexibility to configure a session control component and interaction thereof with an application server in embodiments in which the packet based core network is a 3GPP IMS core network the session control component can be one of a S CSCF node an I CSCF node a P CSCF node or a BGCF node . Superiority stems from in part customized features of interaction with e.g. invocation of disparate ASs wherein a network operator through the various aspects of the subject disclosure can customize such features based at least on service provided by an AS the type of the AS or both. Moreover the various aspects or features of configuration of a session control component e.g. S CSCF I CSCF or P CSCF in 3GPP IMS core network disclosed herein enable a network operator to specify for a particular subscriber particular feature s of interaction amongst the session control component and an AS. Accordingly the various aspects or features of the subject disclosure afford a degree of configuration granularity not available to conventional network systems in connection with at least configuration of interaction amongst S CSCF node and an AS.

Various aspects of the subject disclosure can be automated through artificial intelligence AI methods to infer e.g. reason and draw a conclusion based upon a set of metrics arguments or known outcomes in controlled scenarios for example values of variables within at least one procedure in application server s schedule s for tracking updates to AS profile s or related ID tag s or the like. Artificial intelligence techniques typically apply advanced mathematical algorithms e.g. decision trees neural networks regression analysis principal component analysis PCA for feature and pattern extraction cluster analysis genetic algorithm or reinforced learning to a data set e.g. the collected subscriber intelligence in the case of subscriber segmentation. In particular one of numerous methodologies can be employed for learning from data and then drawing inferences from the models so constructed. For example Hidden Markov Models HMMs and related prototypical dependency models can be employed. General probabilistic graphical models such as Dempster Shafer networks and Bayesian networks like those created by structure search using a Bayesian model score or approximation also can be utilized. In addition linear classifiers such as support vector machines SVMs non linear classifiers like methods referred to as neural network methodologies fuzzy logic methodologies also can be employed.

In view of the example system s described above example method s that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter can be better appreciated with reference to flowcharts in . For purposes of simplicity of explanation example methods disclosed herein are presented and described as a series of acts however it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of acts as some acts may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example one or more example methods disclosed herein can alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover interaction diagram s may represent methods in accordance with the disclosed subject matter when disparate entities enact disparate portions of the methodologies. Furthermore not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a described example method in accordance with the subject specification. Further yet two or more of the disclosed methods can be implemented executed performed etc. in combination with each other to accomplish one or more features or advantages described herein.

Method s disclosed throughout the subject specification and annexed drawings are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such method s to computers or chipsets with processing capability ies for execution and thus implementation by a processor or for storage in a memory. In an aspect one or more processors that enact method s described herein can be employed to execute computer executable code instructions retained in a memory or any computer readable or machine readable medium to implement method s described herein the code instructions when executed by the one or more processor implement or carry out the various acts in the method s described herein. The computer executable code instructions also referred to herein as code instructions provide a computer executable framework to enact or implement the method s described herein.

At act it is verified that an AS profile has been acquired for each filter criterion in the set of filter criteria within the subscriber profile e.g. . As an example the verification can be based at least on inspection of a group of AS profile retained in a memory that is part of or functionally coupled to the session control component that enacts the subject example method. At act it is determined if the verification has failed. In the negative case flow is terminated whereas in the affirmative case flow is directed to act in which a set of AS profiles e.g. a group of three AS profiles that caused the verification to fail is extracted from the centralized repository.

With respect to example method at act for at least one filter criterion e.g. filter in a set of filter criteria within a subscriber profile e.g. acquire an AS profile conveyed by the at least one filter criterion. The subject act is substantially the same as act . At act it is determined if AS profile has expired. In an aspect determining if the AS profile has expired can be based on monitoring a timer e.g. a time to live TTL timer that establishes a time interval during which the AS profile remains committed e.g. valid or in effect . In an affirmative determination the AS profile is re acquired at act . Conversely in case the AS profile has not expired flow is redirected to act .

In example methods and a new or custom Diameter message can be employed to extract an AS profile from the centralized repository e.g. HSS in an IMS core network as indicated supra.

When compared to conventional packet based networks example methods and at the very least increase reliability of configuration of and related provisioning of data to a session control component by mitigating or avoiding manual intervention during provisioning of the data. In addition and with respect to conventional systems example methods and increase reliability of configuration of features of the interaction of the session control component and an AS by automating acquisition of an AS profile and performing integrity checks or verifications that can ensure availability of current or up to date AS profiles.

In order to provide additional context for various aspects of the subject specification and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the specification can be implemented. While the specification has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions that may run on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the specification also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated aspects of the specification may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

A computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.

Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

With reference again to the example environment for implementing various aspects of the specification includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures may also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive may also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown or an external HDD can be present in addition to internal HDD a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the subject specification.

The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like may also be used in the example operating environment and further that any such media may contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the specification.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . It is appreciated that the specification can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone an IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which may connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adapter may facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adapter .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are example and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least Wi Fi and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity allows connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11 a b g etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet . Wi Fi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 8 Mbps 802.11a or 54 Mbps 802.11b data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

The system includes a communication framework that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s . The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

It is to be noted that aspects features or advantages of the subject innovation described in the subject specification can be exploited in substantially any wireless communication technology. For instance 4G technologies Wi Fi WiMAX Enhanced GPRS 3GPP LTE 3GPP2 UMB 3GPP UMTS HSPA HSDPA HSUPA GERAN UTRAN LTE Advanced. Additionally substantially all aspects of the subject innovation as disclosed in the subject specification can be exploited in legacy telecommunication technologies e.g. GSM. In addition mobile as well non mobile networks e.g. internet data service network such as IPTV can exploit aspect or features described herein.

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification and annexed drawings terms such as store data store data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

Various aspects or features described herein can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects disclosed in the subject specification can also be implemented through program modules stored in a memory and executed by a processor or other combination of hardware and software or hardware and firmware. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical discs e.g. compact disc CD digital versatile disc DVD blu ray disc BD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the subject innovation. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the subject innovation but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

