---

title: Systems and methods for monitoring parameters of a wireless device
abstract: Systems and methods are provided for controlling monitoring operations, such as the monitoring of signal strength, media access control layer overhead information data, application layer overhead information, and/or data in a device, such as a battery powered, mobile, communication device. A user interface status and/or a flow status can be monitored. Based at least in part on the user interface status and/or the flow status, a determination can be made as to when and/or how often monitoring is to be performed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08582455&OS=08582455&RS=08582455
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08582455
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100504
---
The present disclosed embodiments relate generally to systems and methods for parameter monitoring and more specifically to systems and methods for monitoring parameters with respect to wireless communication devices.

Conventional wireless communication devices such as cellular phones and other similar types of devices periodically monitor the received signal strength of a communication signal such as of a CDMA GSM UMTS or MEDIAFLO signal. The results of the signal strength monitoring are typically displayed by a cellular phone to a user via a received signal strength indicator RSSI . Disadvantageously such periodic signal strength monitoring utilizes stored energy from the phone s battery even while the phone is sleeping. The energy consumption associated with such constant periodic monitoring can be of the same order of magnitude as a cellular phone s standby power consumption and hence significantly reduces phone standby time and talk time.

If in an attempt to reduce power consumption the signal power monitoring period were simply significantly lengthened so that there was a relatively longer interval between monitoring events then the signal strength data would become stale and hence the signal strength indicator would display significantly less relevant outdated information.

In addition some broadcast technologies for example FLO forward link only signal an OIS overhead information symbol monitoring period to receiving devices such a FLO receiving devices. Furthermore FLO devices monitor data channels such as a primary flow to ensure that upper layer overhead information is up to date. Current consumption caused by such monitoring in idle mode may be a large percentage of total idle current consumption.

In particular when the FLO device is in standby mode e.g. the device user interface is inactive conventionally the monitoring current consumption on FLO devices is a significant addition to the normal idle current consumption. For example the current consumption for such monitoring in a FLO device can be more than 50 of the base current consumption for a CDMA or WCDMA idle state.

There is therefore a need in the art for systems and methods for reducing the energy consumption associated with wireless device parameter monitoring while at the same time providing monitoring of sufficient frequency so as not to inordinately interfere with the user experience.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more aspects in order to provide a basic understanding of such aspects. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated aspects and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all aspects nor delineate the scope of any or all aspects. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more aspects in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Methods and systems disclosed herein address certain of the above stated needs by dynamically adjusting the occurrence and timing of obtaining and providing status updates in a battery powered device. For example certain methods and systems determine or infer when a user of a portable wireless communications device would and would not benefit from signal strength monitoring and at least partly based on such determination increase the signal strength monitoring frequency decrease the signal strength monitoring frequency halt the signal strength monitoring or initiate the signal strength monitoring. Optionally display status and or flow status may be used at least in part in determining how to adjust the signal strength monitoring. Certain embodiments adjust the monitoring timing and or frequency of a strength of a wireless signal media access control layer overhead information application layer overhead information and or data based at least in part on a status of a data channel and or a user interface.

An example embodiment provides a wireless communication apparatus configured to receive a wireless signal the apparatus comprising a processor and instructions stored on a non transitory tangible medium that when executed by the processor are configured to perform operations comprising determining a status of at least one of the following a user interface of the wireless communication apparatus or a data channel based at least in part on the user interface status or the data channel status or both the user interface status and the data channel status adjusting monitoring timing of a a strength of a wireless signal or b media access control layer overhead information or c media access control layer overhead data or d application layer overhead information or e application layer overhead data or f any combination of a b c d or e .

An example embodiment provides instructions stored on a non transitory tangible medium that when executed by the processor are configured to perform operations comprising determining a status of at least one of the following a user interface of the wireless communication apparatus or a data channel based at least in part on the user interface status or the data channel status or both the user interface status and the data channel status adjusting monitoring timing of a a strength of a wireless signal or b media access control layer overhead information or c media access control layer overhead data or d application layer overhead information or e application layer overhead data or f any combination of a b c d or e .

An example embodiment provides method of monitoring in a wireless device the method comprising determining using a computing device a status of at least one of the following a user interface of the wireless communication apparatus or a data channel based at least in part on the user interface status or the data channel status or both the user interface status and the data channel status adjusting using the computing device monitoring timing of a a strength of a wireless signal or b media access control layer overhead information or c media access control layer overhead data or d application layer overhead information or e application layer overhead data or f any combination of a b c d or e .

An example embodiment provides a wireless communication apparatus configured to receive a wireless signal the apparatus comprising means for determining a status of at least one of a user interface of the wireless communication apparatus or a data channel means for adjusting monitoring timing based at least in part on the user interface status or the data channel status or both the user interface status and the data channel status of a a strength of a wireless signal or b media access control layer overhead information or c media access control layer overhead data or d application layer overhead information or e application layer overhead data or f any combination of a b c d or e .

Described herein are systems and methods that can dynamically adjust the occurrence and timing of parameter monitoring such as the monitoring of one or more parameters of a wireless battery powered device. For example certain embodiments provide methods and systems configured to determine or infer when a user of a communications device would and would not benefit from signal strength monitoring and at least partly based on such determination increase the signal strength monitoring frequency decrease the signal strength monitoring frequency halt the signal strength monitoring or initiate the signal strength monitoring. Further certain embodiments provide methods and systems for adjusting the frequency and or timing of overhead system information and or data monitoring.

In certain embodiments the status of a user interface and or a data channel e.g. flow status in a mobile wireless communication device is determined and based at least in part on the determination the monitoring timing e.g. the frequency interval of one or more of the following items is adjusted a strength of a wireless signal media access control layer overhead information e.g. information indicating the location of a Multicast Logical Channel MLC data media access control layer overhead data e.g. an alert notification application layer overhead information and or data. Other parameters may in addition or instead be used to determine monitoring timing. Based on the status of the selected parameters a determination may be made as to whether the monitoring frequency or interval for a given monitored item should be unaltered decreased or increased.

It is understood that while certain descriptions herein may refer to determining the monitoring timing for certain items the frequency interval of other items can be similarly adjusted. Further while certain descriptions herein may refer to the detection of a display being off or being on in order to adjust a monitoring period interval other user interface related events may be used in addition or instead. For example a communication device may detect when a phone keypad e.g. physical buttons or a touch screen has last been used and use such detection in determining how to adjust the signal strength monitoring.

The system further includes a content server coupled to an access point . The content server stores and or provides access to media content such as video content audio content multimedia content scripts programs data and or other content. The media may comprise real time content non real time content IP datacast content and or a combination of the three. The content server may be configured to receive content from one or more content providers. The system can transmit content to one or more user devices .

The device may also be called an access terminal handset wireless subscriber wireless unit wireless device wireless communications device wireless telecommunications device wireless telephone cellular telephone user terminal user equipment mobile station mobile unit subscriber station wireless station mobile radio radio telephone or some other terminology. The user device may be any type of device or terminal such as a mobile telephone a portable computer a personal digital assistant mobile television mobile entertainment device or other type of portable device capable of receiving data over a wireless communication link. The device may be a battery powered device.

The access point communicates with the access terminal e.g. via a forward link . The access terminal may optionally be a FLO forward link only device and in particular may be a media forward link only device configured to operate with a media distribution system that utilizes FLO technology such as a multimedia multicast system.

The system may transmit multi media streams on various channels coming from different sources. The smallest channel transmission unit is sometimes referred to as a MLC. Thus an MLC may represent a flow of audio and video information of a certain channel. Several MLCs may be combined to form a superframe. A given superframe may have about a one second duration. A super frame may comprise 1 200 symbols or a variable number of OFDM symbols based on the bandwidth being used that are Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM modulated with 4 096 sub carriers. The OFDM symbols in a superframe may include Time Division Multiplexed TDM pilot symbols TDM TDM Wide Area and one Local Identification Channel WIC and LIC respectively symbols Overhead Information channel Symbols OIS including Transitional Pilot Channel TPC symbols and data frames e.g. 4 data frames . Further at the end of each super frame after the four data frames Signaling Parameter Channel SPC symbols are provided. These symbols are used to convey certain signaling parameters to the receiver such as the FFT size and the length of the cyclic prefix used for OIS and data channel symbols as further described herein.

The system may multicast several services. A service can include an aggregation of one or more related data components such as the video audio text or signaling associated with a service e.g. a data channel . A given independent data component of a service is called a flow. To view a channel at the device common overhead service acquisition is performed in which the device acquires overhead information that enables the device to locate and access services carried in the received superframes. In an example embodiment the overhead services acquisition may include 

The device can acquire the OIS symbols to get the CC position. The CC information can be read and the CC can be parsed to obtain the MLC IDs. The device can acquire the primary flow to run the desired service which may in certain circumstances take one two or more seconds .

Thus for example device may be configured to first check the primary flow message to determine what information has been updated and then updates the information in the device accordingly. When the device receives a primary message from the primary flow the device may examine the version to determine whether it is a new message. If so the device can examine the message content to determine what is being updated.

As discussed in greater detail herein the access terminal includes a status adjustment module device configured to adjust signal strength monitoring media access control layer overhead information and or data and or application layer overhead information and or data based on one or more parameters.

The device includes a monitoring adjustment module configured to dynamically adjust the monitoring frequency interval of one or more items such as for signal strength monitoring media access control layer overhead information monitoring data monitoring application layer overhead information monitoring and or data monitoring as discussed in greater detail below.

Certain embodiments provide systems and methods for reducing power consumption in a wireless device such as a wireless communication device e.g. a cellular phone a wireless television device by dynamically adjusting the monitoring timing of one or more parameters. By way of example the wireless communication device may be a forward link only FLO device.

Certain embodiments dynamically increase the monitoring frequency decrease the monitoring frequency which may include halting the monitoring or initiate monitoring of one or more items based on one or more factors. For example display status and or flow status may be used at least in part in determining how to adjust the signal strength monitoring. By way of further example the status of a data channel e.g. a flow may be used to at least in part in determining how to adjust overhead information and or data monitoring. Therefore certain embodiments reduce current consumption and hence extend battery life and standby time by dynamically adapting the monitoring periods timing for one or more items so as to provide a satisfactory user experience while reducing the number of overall monitoring events.

For broadcast technologies without a paging channel to monitor such as in certain FLO devices there is limited or no use in knowing the signal strength while the phone is in a sleep state as the received signal strength indicator RSSI information is not displayed. Therefore certain embodiments adapt the signal strength monitoring period according to the status of the phone s display and or other factors.

For example when the communication device display is off as may automatically occur when the user is not actively using the communication device and the communication device is in standby idle mode optionally the signal monitoring can be completely halted or the monitoring frequency can be reduced to reduce current consumption. When the display is turned on e.g. as might occur when the device detects that the user is actively using the phone such as by detecting that the user has activated a certain control physically opened the device e.g. by sliding out a keyboard or by flipping open the device in the case of a clamshell device or when a call is being received the device detects the display activation and triggers a substantially immediate signal strength check and updates the RSSI with the current signal strength. Thus substantially immediately after the RSSI display is turned on the user can be provided with a substantially real time signal strength status.

In addition subsequent to an initial signal strength check OIS check and or application data check the device can perform recurring signal strength checks OIS checks and or application data checks optionally at relatively shorter durations than is conventional e.g. less than 40 seconds between signal strength measurements less than 317 seconds for primary flow monitoring until the device again enters a stand by idle mode or if the RSSI is deactivated for other reasons . The interval between signal strength OIS and or data checks can be adjusted optionally dynamically adjusted as desired.

By way of illustration using certain conventional monitoring schemes for a FLO device signal strength monitoring is performed once every 40 seconds. Utilizing the technique described above to reduce the frequency of signal strength monitoring events can add approximately 25 or 100 hrs to the standby time without significantly adversely affecting active current consumption when the communication device is active not in standby mode and without significantly adversely affecting the user experience.

In addition the frequency of the signal strength monitoring can be increased when the display is active as compared to a conventional monitoring frequency to thereby provide the user with more current signal strength information when the user can actually benefit from such information. For example conventionally signal strength monitoring may be performed every 40 seconds. However using the techniques described herein the signal strength monitoring may be halted when the display is off and may performed every 5 or 10 seconds or other interval when the display is on providing the user with more current signal strength information when appropriate e.g. when the display is on while still reducing overall current consumption associated with such monitoring. The amount of current utilized by such monitoring may be less than 1 of the current utilized by the display and thus will have little effect on the device s active current consumption.

Further using certain conventional schemes the primary flow is monitored approximately once every 317 seconds also consuming approximately a significant percentage of standby current. Thus reducing primary flow monitoring as described above will likewise reduce power consumption.

The foregoing technique can similarly be applied to a variety of technologies where signal strength is monitored for the purpose of displaying the signal strength to the user e.g. DVB H ISDB T WI FI roaming .

Optionally an interface is provided e.g. an application programming interface API via which an entity other than or in addition to the chip manufacturer can set signal strength OIS and or data monitoring parameters and or monitoring intervals. Thus a handset manufacturer or cellular network operator for example can flexibly and easily customize communication devices via the APIs according to their needs and those of their customers.

By way of illustration one or more API function calls are optionally provided for decreasing increasing or restoring the OIS overhead information symbol and primary flow monitoring periods. For example an API may operate through a media flow interface MFPAL between a lower level physical layer and an upper layer e.g. the media flow data system core MDSC . Optionally the MDSC obtains the monitoring frequency setting e.g. fast normal slow from the MFPAL. In certain embodiments the MDSC polls the MFPAL to determine what flows are active and then determines whether a relatively frequent or the relatively infrequent monitoring is to be performed. The MFPAL can optionally issue monitoring frequency update events accordingly.

By way of background an OIS comprises some or all of the following control channel CC information and reserved flow data comprising primary flow data service information data notification flow data configuration flow data and presentation metadata.

The function call for restoring normal relatively more frequent monitoring as compared to when the display is off monitoring settings may optionally be called when turning on the communication device display and the function call for relaxing relatively less frequency monitoring as compared to the normal monitoring the monitoring periods may optionally be called upon turning off the communication device display.

Optionally the request for slower monitoring of the OIS and or primary flow is denied if there are pending unmapped flows e.g. where the device could not find a requested flow identifier in the control channel if the display is active and or if an emergency alert has been received via the OIS or CC. Of course fewer or additional parameters may be taken into account in determining how to adjust the monitoring frequency interval.

By way of illustration if the communication device is waiting for a flow to become active for downloading a file e.g. an upper level layer submits a request for a flow using a flow identifier but the flow is not yet mapped or detected in the CC and or optionally if there is a pending emergency alert the device can keep the monitoring at the current signal strength monitoring frequency interval. Thus once the previously unmapped flow is detected in the CC the device can substantially immediately monitor the flow.

Optionally when the communication device user interface is activated e.g. when the display is being turned on because the device is leaving standby mode and entering active mode the user interface procedure can call the function for more frequent or normal signal strength monitoring.

On the other hand in an optional embodiment if the device determines that there are no active flows and no unmapped flows the device can automatically adjust the monitoring interval to be longer by decreasing the monitoring frequency to thereby dynamically reduce overall power consumption and in particular reduce power consumption when the device is in standby mode. Optionally when the communication device user interface exits e.g. when the display is being automatically or manually turned off because the device is entering standby mode the user interface procedure calls the function for less frequent signal strength monitoring e.g. decreases the monitoring frequency of the OIS and or primary flow by 50 by 75 halts the monitoring entirely etc. .

If the device determines that there are active flows or unmapped flows or other situations where it is advisable to conduct more frequent monitoring of the device signal strength the device may automatically maintain or decrease the interval between monitoring events increase the monitoring frequency . Thus if the device had been performing slow monitoring the device may automatically revert to a normal or faster monitoring mode e.g. at or no more than about 40 seconds between OIS signal strength measurements no more than about 317 seconds between primary flow monitoring events .

Optionally the monitoring rate can be increased above the normal rate in response to one or more conditions. For example upon receipt or detection of an emergency alert received via the OIS or CC the monitoring rate may be increased to ensure that the emergency alert information is not stale.

At state a determination is made as to whether the communication device display is active or optionally is about to become active e.g. turned on . For example the device may automatically turn on the display in response to detecting that the user may want to actively use the phone e.g. by detecting that the user has activated a certain control pressed a key or when a call is being received.

If the determination indicates the communication device display is active or optionally about to become active the process proceeds to state relatively higher frequency signal strength monitoring is performed relative to the monitoring frequency of state and the results of the monitoring e.g. the signal strength is displayed via the communication device display which may be a dedicated RSSI display or a multipurpose display . Optionally signal strength monitoring can be performed substantially immediately after a determination is made that the display is about to or has just turned on to quickly provide the user with current signal strength information. The monitoring can then be performed at the appropriate interval.

If at state a determination is made that the communication device display is inactive or optionally is about to become inactive e.g. turned off or with just the backlighting or other illumination turned off the process proceeds to state . For example the device may automatically turn off the display in response to the user activating a standby control or if the user has not activated a user input control for a certain period of time and the process detects the off state.

At state relatively lower frequency signal strength monitoring is performed relative to the monitoring frequency of state or optionally signal strength monitoring can be halted completely. If it is later determined that the display is or is about to become active the process then proceeds to state as discussed above.

If the determination indicates there is a current emergency alert an active flow or an unmapped flow or that the communication device display is active or optionally about to become active the process proceeds to state relatively higher frequency monitoring is performed relative to the monitoring frequency of state and the results can be optionally displayed via the communication device display which may be a multipurpose display a dedicated RSSI display or other display .

If at state a determination is made that there are no current emergency alert active flows or unmapped flows and the display is not active or optionally about to become active the process proceeds to state . At state relatively lower frequency signal strength OIS and or data monitoring is performed relative to the monitoring frequency of state or optionally monitoring of one or more of the foregoing parameters can be halted completely.

Thus embodiments described herein can improve standby life by significant amounts e.g. by 35 60 or other amount depending on the monitoring frequency while providing more current status information when needed.

Those of skill in the art would understand that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

The word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments.

Those of skill would further appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention. The order of various method states described herein can be interchanged without departing from the scope of the invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The steps of a method or algorithm described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary non transitory computer readable storage medium can be coupled to the processor such the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal. In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

