---

title: Firearm selector removal and installation tool
abstract: This tool makes it possible to more conveniently handle the “selector” element on a conventional M16/M4 family weapon when the selector must be removed or reinserted. As will be appreciated by those in the gun repair trade, in the disassembly or reassembly of such weapons the handling of the selector element is a tricky and painstaking activity. This disclosed tool handily is an assist in such activities. The tool is inserted in the opening in the receiver of the selector element and rotated. An offset circular cam means on the tool when rotated will handily depress the detent element (which necessarily must be done and it also has a spring beneath it). A bumper end cap at the distal end of the tool will carefully engage the selector element to gently push on it if needed (or in the reverse operation for the tool to be gently backed away there from as the selector is repositioned into the weapon). A longitudinal groove on the cam means will signal to the user when the proper rotation has been achieved to adequately depress said detent element.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08069606&OS=08069606&RS=08069606
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08069606
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100414
---
The inventions described herein may be made used or licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

This tool makes it possible to more conveniently handle the selector and other allied elements on a conventional M16 M4 family weapon when the selector and or other elements need to be removed or reinserted. As will be appreciated by those in the gun repair trade in the disassembly or reassembly of such weapons the handling of the selector and allied elements is a tricky and painstaking activity greatly needing improved assist. This disclosed tool handily is a great addition and assist in such activities.

The description as follows includes directional designations such as up down left right lateral transverse longitudinal top bottom vertical and the like that are taken from the perspective of a firearm e.g. a conventional AR 10 AR 15 M16 family style platform or pattern rifle and M4 pattern carbine and variants thereof as typically held and operated by a user. The description assumes the level of knowledge held by an ordinary armorer gunsmith repair or assembly technician maintenance personnel and the like for a conventional AR 15 M16 pattern rifle and M4 pattern carbine and variants thereof and the respective components and operation thereof.

During assembly and repair operations of AR 15 M16 pattern style or family rifles and M4 pattern style or family carbines i.e. weapons and variants thereof referred to as guns weapons or firearms hereafter the fire control group i.e. mechanism assembly etc. of such weapons e.g. hammer trigger disconnector or intermediate sear selector i.e. safety selector safety or control member auto sear for selective fire weapons associated springs and pins as is well known to those skilled in the art of the assembly maintenance and repair the weapons of the are often removed and installed or reinstalled . U.S. Pat. Nos. 3 045 555 and 5 760 328 describe examples of the fire control components of the conventional M16 rifle.

Operations that require the removal and installation of the fire control group FCG components of the weapon in particular the trigger disconnector and disconnector spring subassembly i.e. trigger subassembly is problematic because the selector obstructs ready access to the trigger subassembly. Many repair and maintenance instructions recommend removal of the selector to provide the desired access to the trigger subassembly. However the selector is retained via a selector detent and spring that are in the firearm lower receiver and which are retained by the firearm hand grip which is in turn retained by a screw inside the grip. The grip retention screw fastens into the lower receiver.

Unfortunately the removal of the grip screw and grip and selector detent and selector detent spring has a number of deficiencies. Such deficiencies include i the process is time consuming ii there is risk of loss of components especially loss of the relatively small selector detent and selector detent spring iii usually requires repositioning the lower receiver iv risks stripping the grip screw threads in the lower receiver which generally ruins or requires expensive repair to the lower receiver and vi when a Allen head grip screw is used to retain the grip as is common in some commercial weapons requires a special long reach Allen wrench which is often an additional expense.

Because of such deficiencies a number of alternative conventional approaches have been implemented to remove and reinstall the selector without removing the grip and the selector detent and selector detent spring . Selector removal can be performed by cocking the hammer or otherwise depressing the rear of the trigger and rotating the selector to a position intermediate to the safe and fire or semi detent hole locations and then pressing the selector out that is to the left . The step of pressing the selector out is generally aided by the use of a non scratching cylindrically shaped tool having a diameter less than the diameter of the selector such as a wooden or plastic dowel a push tool for example a pin push tool as shown in or the like. Re installation of the selector with the detent still in place is however typically more problematic. Conventional alternatives to reinstall the selector with the respective deficiencies have been used with limited success.

One conventional approach to reinstall the selector is to depress the detent with an appropriately sized flat blade screwdriver or a round punch with one hand and with the other hand the selector is held rotated intermediate to the safe and fire detent hole locations and slid to the right and back into place. Such a procedure has the deficiencies of i the detent is typically pointed and thus difficult to properly depress with the screwdriver blade or punch end which slips off the detent point ii the detent spring is strong and so the detent is difficult to hold down iii there is risk of scratching the selector or the lower receiver finish with the screwdriver blade or punch end iv the lower receiver obstructs the view of the detent and v the technique requires some degree of coordination dexterity skill and practice as there is difficulty maneuvering the screwdriver or punch and manipulating the selector in different directions and with different movements simultaneously.

Another conventional approach is to depress the detent with an appropriately sized slanted end tool similar to a tool that is sometimes used to install the firearm pivot pin detent rotating the tool and sliding the selector back in place. However such a tool has does not have lateral support as does a front pivot pin detent tool and hence has similar deficiencies to the procedure of using a screwdriver or punch noted above.

Yet another conventional approach is to rotate the selector intermediate to the safe and fire or semi detent hole locations and attempt to rapidly slide and wiggle the selector to the right and back into place. Such attempts generally only result in damage to the selector and or the detent and failure to reinstall the selector as selectors typically do not have a sufficiently and appropriately beveled edge to adequately depress the detent to provide for reinstallation.

The description herein assumes the level of knowledge held by an ordinary armorer gunsmith repair or assembly technician maintenance personnel and the like for a conventional AR 15 M16 pattern rifle and M4 pattern carbine and variants thereof and the respective components and operation thereof. The description may include directional designations such as up down left right lateral transverse longitudinal top bottom vertical and the like that are taken from the perspective of a firearm e.g. a conventional AR 10 AR 15 M16 family style platform or pattern rifle and M4 pattern carbine and variants thereof as typically held and operated by a user.

For ease of description and explanation U.S. Pat. No. 3 045 555 issued Jul. 24 1962 to E. M. Stoner titled Automatic trigger mechanism with three sears and a rotatable control member the 555 patent is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. As is known to one of ordinary skill in the art the 555 patent illustrates and describes the fire control mechanism of the conventional M16 pattern rifle and or M4 pattern carbine. The conventional AR 15 rifle implements a simplified i.e. semi automatic fire version of the fire control mechanism of the 555 patent. In particular referring to the 555 patent on FIGS. 2 and 3 and at col. 3 line 20 through col. 4 line 41 the physical layout and operation of the relevant components of the firearm fire control mechanism is illustrated and described. The numbering of elements of the 555 patent i.e. elements having numbers below 200 are implemented for description of the environment which is described herein. The environment forms no part of the invention.

The description as follows is directed to a firearm selector removal and installation tool wherein elements of the tool are numbered 200 and above and includes directional designations such as up down left right lateral transverse longitudinal top bottom vertical and the like that are generally taken from the perspective of a firearm gun weapon and the like e.g. a conventional AR 10 AR 15 M16 M4 family style platform or pattern rifle and carbine and variants thereof as designated element 10 in the 555 patent as typically held and operated e.g. fired .

The description is generally related to and made in connection with the fire control group FCG i.e. mechanism assembly etc. of such weapons e.g. hammer trigger disconnector intermediate sear selector common control member rotatable control member safety selector safety numbered as 120 in the 555 patent auto sear for selective fire weapons and associated springs and pins of AR 15 M16 pattern platform style or family rifles and M4 pattern carbines i.e. weapons and variants thereof referred to as guns weapons or firearms hereafter . The selector generally rotatably controls the mode of operation e.g. safe semiautomatic burst or full automatic fire of the gun . The description is generally applicable to removal and installation of the selector and the installation tool may be advantageously implemented in connection with other firearms having the same or similar FCGs.

The tool has a generally screwdriver like shape. The tool generally comprises a handle a support shaft a detent cam having a groove a collar and a bumper . The tool has a first end handle end and a second end cam end . The handle the support shaft and the detent cam are a generally longitudinal integral unit .

The handle generally includes longitudinal grooves and or swells stippling and the like to aid user gripping and twisting the tool . The handle is generally made of a tough durable plastic such as nylon or urethane. In alternate embodiments materials such as wood or metal may be implemented.

The support shaft is generally integral to the handle and the support shaft is generally coaxial with the handle . The support shaft is typically made of tough durable plastic. The support shaft may be molded integral with or inserted into the handle .

The detent cam is generally made of steel or a similar strong hard metallic substance. The cam is generally molded integral into or inserted into the support shaft and handle .

The collar described in further detail in connection with may be ring shaped and generally fits snugly but rotatably around the shaft . The collar is typically made of tough durable plastic.

The bumper described in further detail in connection with is generally installed into the outer end of the cam . The bumper is typically made of tough durable plastic.

Referring to a simplified end view of the second end of the tool illustrates the spatial relationship of the shaft and the cam . The shaft has a diameter D and the cam has a diameter D that is smaller than the diameter D. The cam is offset relative to the shaft such that the outer circumference edge of the cam containing the groove coincides with the outer circumference edge of the shaft .

Referring to a broken view of a portion of the right side of the firearm receiver from the inside looking left illustrates the tool as installed during the selector installation process prior to rotation twisting of the tool . When the selector is not mounted in the right side of the receiver the detent is biased upward by spring seen in and to a protrusion or extended height H. When protruded the safety detent generally prevents installation of the selector . As such the detent should be depressed to enable the installation of the selector .

The diameter of the support shaft D is selected such that the shaft fits snugly but rotatably in the hole in the receiver for the end of the selector that contains the control cam when the selector is mounted in the receiver i.e. the diameter D may be about the same diameter as the diameter of the ends of the selector . The diameter of the detent cam D is selected to provide clearance to the protrusion i.e. extended height H of the detent such that with the cam at the top the cam may be inserted into the receiver generally from right to left . When the tool is inserted into the receiver the groove is generally at or near the top. During the selector installation operation after insertion into the receiver the tool may be rotated either clockwise or counter clockwise to depress the detent via camming action of the outer radial surface of the detent cam and thereby enable insertion of the selector from left to right .

Referring to a partial sectional view of the right side of the firearm receiver from the rear illustrates the tool during the selector installation process after rotation of the tool . The receiver has a thickness RT and the detent has a point that is inward from the right outside surface of the receiver at an inward offset PD. The shaft extends from the handle at a length L and the cam extends from the shaft at a length L. The top or head of the bumper has a thickness BT.

The dimensions of the elements that comprise the tool are selected e.g. calculated determined chosen and the like such that when the tool is inserted into the receiver rotation of the tool will depress the detent such that the selector may be readily inserted generally from the left to the right into the receiver . In particular the length L is generally selected such that the support shaft remains within the outer wall of the receiver i.e. to the right of the hole that contains the detent . The length L is generally selected such that the cam extends inward beyond the point offset PD and preferably but not necessarily beyond the inner edge of the hole that contains the detent . However the sum of the lengths L plus L plus the outer thickness of the bumper BT is less than the thickness RT such that a gap G that provides clearance such that the control cam end of the selector may readily be guided piloted into the respective mounting hole in the receiver .

The groove generally has a depth that is selected to provide the user with a tactile and audible click when the point of the detent is engaged into the groove during rotation of the tool while depressing the detent sufficiently to enable the selector to be readily inserted into the right wall of the receiver . The diameter of the bumper is selected such that the outer circumference of the bumper is slightly inside the groove .

Referring to another partial sectional view of the right side of the firearm receiver from the rear illustrates further details of the tool . The collar has a thickness T and the collar is snugly but rotatably mounted in a circumferential groove in the shaft . The bumper generally comprises a head section that is at the outer end of the detent cam and a push in retainer section having a generally cylindrical stem with multiple layers of flexible radial fins thereon typically called in the art a Christmas tree retainer .

During a process to remove the selector the head section of the bumper may be advantageous implemented as a push tool and operated similarly to a conventional push tool. During a process to install the selector the selector is held at a position between safe and fire and is pushed left to right and the selector ejects the tool . The head section of the bumper generally provides reduction or elimination of damage to the finish of the outer right end of the selector during removal and installation processes. The Christmas tree section of the bumper may be installed in a respective appropriately sized hole in the cam . The hole in the cam is generally threaded to aid retention of the bumper in the cam .

Referring to a broken side view of an alternative embodiment of the collar is illustrated. To aid installation onto the shaft and rotatability when the tool is operated the collar may include a plurality of scallops flaps petals on the inner edge.

To summarize operation of the tool during the removal of the selector the tool is implemented somewhat similarly to a conventional punch or push tool. The selector is rotated to a position intermediate to between the safe and fire positions the bumper is placed against the right end of the selector and the tool is firmly and rapidly pushed from right to left to eject the selector.

To install the selector the tool fully is inserted into the selector hole from the outside into the right side of the receiver right to left with the cam at the top e.g. as illustrated in the tool is rotated either clockwise or counter clockwise and the radial outer surface of the detent cam depresses the detent until the detent clicks into the groove the selector is held at a position between the safe and fire positions and inserted through the left side of the receiver across and into the right side of the receiver via piloting provided by the gap G the selector is aligned with the bumper the selector is firmly and rapidly pushed to the right against the bumper and the tool is ejected as the selector slides into place and is held in place by the detent .

While the invention may have been described with reference to certain embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

