---

title: Systems and methods for retail networking
abstract: Computing systems, methods, and program products can support a closed retail network. A computing system can receive an inquiry from a first member entity of a retail network and identifying a product of interest. The system can use a datastore to determine if the product of interest is available for sale by a first member by determining if the product is available from a second member. If the product of interest is available for sale, the computing system can indicate that the product is available, receive data from the first member entity indicating that the product has been sold to a customer and including payment information, use the payment information to transfer funds from the customer, and initiate a distribution of the transferred funds to the first and second member entities. The system may consider distribution rules in determining if the product is available for sale by the first member.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08744919&OS=08744919&RS=08744919
owner: 
number: 08744919
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20100727
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 228 684 filed Jul. 27 2009 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Continuing advances in network and computer technologies have led to an explosion in online commerce. For example consumers may purchase items of interest from online based retail entities e.g. Amazon.com online counterparts for brick and mortar retail entities and or in some cases directly from manufacturers wholesalers or vendors of any sort by navigating to a web site or other online resource selecting product s and providing payment and shipping information.

Although online commerce has led to substantial benefits and efficiencies for numerous parties it has also had unintended adverse consequences especially in the case of retail entities who traditionally played a role beyond a mere distribution point for goods. For instance specialty shops were and are relied upon by customers and potential customers as a source for relatively in depth knowledge of available products and trends recommendations for purchasing using and maintaining products of interest and as a focal point for a community of customers and enthusiasts. Examples of specialty shops include but are not limited to retail entities focused on snowboarding surfing and mountain biking equipment and accessories. These shops are often but not always relatively smaller businesses with a single location or only a few locations.

Although customers and potential customers may wish to rely on the services and knowledge of a specialty shop not all potential customers actually support the shop economically. As an example a potential customer may view products at a brick and mortar specialty shop and rely on the services and recommendations of a knowledgeable specialist at the shop but then use the recommendations to purchase product s from an online retail entity offering the same product at a lower price. The brick and mortar shop puts in the work to facilitate the sale but sees no direct benefit. The customer may return to the shop for accessories in some cases and generate revenue but just as likely may never return or may return for assistance in configuring the product purchased elsewhere.

Against this backdrop retail entities must contend with the traditional problems of retailing. For instance a retail entity may be required to estimate demand and commit to purchase of inventory well in advance of when the inventory is to be sold. The retail entity may end up with too much of a first product and too little of a second product to meet local demand. At the same time a different retail entity may have too much of the second product and too much of the first product. Although inventory management is an important aspect of retail businesses regardless of size overstocking or understocking may significantly affect the fortunes of a small business such as a specialty shop. Such retail entities may be highly motivated to move their excess inventories by heavily discounting the product s for which they have too much inventory which ultimately leads to reduced profits or increased losses for all.

Manufacturers and other vendors especially those of specialty goods have attempted to reduce the economic impact of online sales by attempting to limit or prohibit online sales and enforce pricing schedules. However these efforts have not been fully successful. Additionally customers especially those of specialty goods may not always choose the best product on their own. When the ill chosen product leads to an unfavorable experience the customers blame the manufacturer or other vendor. Finally deep discounts at the retail level can pressure manufacturers vendors to lower wholesale prices ultimately reducing manufacturer profitability in practice manufacturers vendors often push the loss to retailers.

A retail network service provider can maintain a closed network preventing non member retailers to use its services. Additionally access to the network can be limited to devices within the walls premises of the individual retailers. The retail network service provider can mediate control and make accessible the inventory of competitor retail locations within a given industry. In some embodiments this is carried out by a computer system e.g. a server a group of servers accessible via cloud computing etc. controlled by the retail network service provider and accessible to members of the retail network.

In some embodiments a method of facilitating a transaction comprises receiving data regarding a sale completed at a first retail location where the sale includes an exchange of payment information or payment at the first location. The sale can concern an item stocked at a second location. All of the costs and profit in each transaction are paid at point of sale and only at point of sale essentially eliminating any receivables. The first and second retail locations may be completely independent from one another and may otherwise be competitors but the retail network service provider can facilitate cooperation between the retail locations.

The method can further comprise mediating and distributing the funds between the first retail location and second retail location with mediating and distributing performed by the retail network service provider and not the locations themselves.

Some embodiments of the present subject matter include a system for providing a closed network for member retail entity entities to pool inventory and share sales opportunities. For example a retail network service provider can provide a computer system accessible by member retail entities to provide data identifying inventory available for sale by other members of the retail network. The computer system can respond to inquiries for products of interest from member retail entities and facilitate the exchange of information and payment for closing the sale. Access to some or all of the information of the retail network can be restricted to members of the network.

For example a salesperson at a first member retail entity may log on to a web site provided by the computer system to search for an item or items of interest. If the computer system determines that a different second member retail entity has identified the item s as available to the network the computer system can provide the salesperson an option to sell the item s available from the second member retail entity. The salesperson can provide shipping information e.g. the customer s address and payment information to the system which can notify the second member retail entity of the sale. In some embodiments the notification includes a shipping label for the second member retail entity to print or the shipping label may be automatically printed. The payment information e.g. a credit card can be used to draw payment from the customer and distribute the proceeds between the first member retail entity the second member retail entity and or the retail network service provider.

This arrangement can provide benefits to the member retail entities product manufacturers or other vendors and customers. For instance the customer s experience is enhanced since he or she receives the benefits of an in store experience coupled with the wide selection of inventory available in online shopping. Member retail entities benefit by having an outlet for distributing excess inventory the ability to offer a wider inventory than may otherwise have been possible and or by not having to deal with the inconvenience and uncertain availability of special orders.

Manufacturers and or other vendors can benefit as well. For instance knowledgeable retail entities can guide customers in making more appropriate product selections than the customers would have made otherwise which can help avoid adverse product experiences. Additionally with an outlet for excess inventory retail entities will more readily adhere to pricing schedules.

In some embodiments the retail network service provider may enforce limits on distribution. For instance data representing exclusivity in terms of product brand and or geography can be used when identifying available inventory so that a member of the network will only be able to act as the point of sale for products they are authorized to sell on their showroom floor.

These illustrative embodiments are mentioned not to limit or define the limits of the present subject matter but to provide examples to aid understanding thereof. Illustrative embodiments are discussed in the Detailed Description and further description is provided there. Advantages offered by various embodiments may be further understood by examining this specification and or by practicing one or more embodiments of the subject matter.

Reference will now be made in detail to various and alternative exemplary embodiments and to the accompanying drawings. Each example is provided by way of explanation and not as a limitation. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that modifications and variations can be made. For instance features illustrated or described as part of one embodiment may be used on another embodiment to yield a still further embodiment.

In this example each retail entity includes a computing device labeled as A B and C that facilitates connection to communications network . Communications network may comprise the Internet or another suitable network. Communications network facilitates connection to a computing device configured to provide one or more retail network services in accordance with the present subject matter. For example in some embodiments computing device can be maintained and controlled by a retail network service provider that comprises an organization separate from the retail entities.

Retail network service provider may facilitate participation of retail entities in a closed retail network. For example retail network service provider may establish membership terms and procedures agreed to by retail entities . For example as was noted above each retail entity may be a separate company and each may have one or more brick and mortar specialty shops. In some embodiments participation in a retail network is limited by size and or expertise as evaluated by retail network service provider . As a specific example participation in a retail network may be restricted to only independent shops specializing in a particular area of interest such as snowboarding surfing bicycling and the like.

Computing device can include access restriction mechanisms so that members of the retail network can access services but inventory and other information is not generally accessible. For example the retail entity computing devices may authenticate themselves and or users to computing device before inventory information ordering capability and other retail network features are made available. Additionally access to computing device may be controlled to ensure that access to inventory data can only occur from within locations of retailers that are members of the retail network. Of course the retail network service provider may make some information publicly available such as a web site with information regarding how to join or contact the retail network.

Retail network service provider may facilitate a plurality of different retail networks although a single network is discussed in the examples below. For example different retail networks may be established for different retail categories or niches. As another example a manufacturer wholesaler or other vendor may act as a retail network service provider and allow some or all of its authorized dealers to become members of the retail network. The manufacturer wholesaler or other vendor could allow sale of only of the manufacturer or vendor s products via the network and or could allow other manufacturers products to be sold via the network.

Each retail entity is depicted as having inventory on hand. For example retail entity A has inventory comprising product and product . For purposes of illustration a manufacturer is illustrated as a provider of product . However the various products held in inventory and distributed via the network may be obtained from one or more manufacturers wholesalers or other vendors or sources of any sort.

Retail entity B is depicted as having three units of product in inventory. Retail entity C has one unit of product and one unit of product . For example products and may comprise different snowboard models different snowboard brands different snowboard sizes and or may comprise entirely different products.

Customer C may visit retail entity C to select one or more products. For instance customer C may specifically seek out product or may determine with the help of a salesperson at retail entity C that product is the best fit for customer C s needs. In this example product is a particular snowboard although the present subject matter is applicable to any product.

The problem faced by customer C and retail entity C is that retail entity C does not have any units of product in stock in this example. For instance retail entity C may not ordinarily stock product or may have sold out of product . As another example retail entity C may seasonally stock snowboarding equipment for part of the year and then stock other products e.g. surfing equipment for another part of the year. Customer C may arrive after retail entity C has restocked with surfing equipment.

Retail entity C may recommend a different product to customer C but the available product may not entirely fit customer C s needs. As another example retail entity C may special order product from the manufacturer or other vendor . However one or more problems may arise. For instance product may not be available at all or may be available after only an unacceptably long delay. Another problem is that the special order process may inconvenience both retail entity C and customer C the retail entity must take on the responsibility of placing the order and coordinating delivery billing while the customer must wait for the product and typically return to the retail entity once the product arrives.

On the other hand retail entity B has several units of product in stock. For example retail entity B may have previously ordered more units of product than were ultimately needed to meet actual demand at retail entity B. Customer C may seek out retail entity B independently but neither customer C nor retail entity C may be aware of retail entity B s situation. For instance retail entities B and C may be in different cities states or regions. Retail entities B and C may be competitors and may thus be disinclined to share inventory data and customers with one another.

Use of a retail network in accordance with one or aspects of the present subject matter can provide another option for fulfilling customer C s needs while benefiting retail entities B and C. For example retail entities B and C may be members of a closed retail network facilitated by retail network service provider . For example retail entities B and C and or other retail entities may be parties to a membership agreement allowing access to the retail network to list available inventory and to sell inventory listed via the network.

Accordingly the salesperson at retail entity C may log on to a website or other interface available from device or otherwise access a resource provided by retail network service provider to determine if product is available from one or more other members of the network. The website may return a page indicating that one or more units of product are available via the network in this example this is due to information previously provided by retail entity B indicating that retail entity B is willing to be a shipping store for one or more units of product . In some embodiments the retail network service provider website or other interface allows a user to search for a particular product and simply returns an indication of whether the product is available from elsewhere in the network. Thus a retail entity can feel secure that its competitors are not capable of browsing or inferring a listing of the retail entity s inventory.

In some embodiments retail entity C may be informed that retail entity B makes product available while in other embodiments more general information e.g. a location of retail entity B or no information is provided other than availability. Additional information such as pricing expected shipping time and the like can also be provided. In some embodiments product data e.g. technical specifications brochures etc. can be provided by accessing the product data alongside inventory data to help aid the sales process.

The membership terms for the retail network may allow members to list some but not all inventory as available for shipping in response to orders from the retail network. For example retail entity A may be a member of the retail network along with retail entities B and C. As seen in retail entity A has one unit of product in inventory. Retail entity A may wish to keep product for local sale for instance retail entity A may judge demand sufficiently strong to save product for on the spot sale at the location of retail entity A. On the other hand retail entity A may choose to make product available to the network.

The terms may also allow or require retail entities to de list a product if it is sold locally. For example retail entity B may indicate to the network that three units of product are available. If all three units are purchased locally at retail entity B retail entity B can de list the products or change the number of available units accordingly.

In some embodiments the membership terms of the network require the retail entities to prioritize any orders received via the network or set aside products listed with the network from the products available for local sale. This may provide an incentive for a retail entity to first verify that any product listed for shipment via the retail network has not been sold by the network before the retail entity commits to selling the product locally. As another example the retail entity may be required to remove product listings from the network before offering the product for sale locally. For instance retailers may be subject to penalties if they indicate a product as available but then do not respond to an order to ship the product. The penalties may include fines and or exclusion from the network.

In this example product is available from shipment from retail entity B so retail entity B is designated the shipping store. Retail entity C can confirm the sale and submit sales data to the retail entity network service provider . For example retail entity C can provide customer data such as Customer C s name shipping address credit card or other payment information and or other parameters such as shipping preferences. Retail network service provider can complete the transaction such as by charging debiting the customer s account and then provide an order to retail entity B to ship the product.

In some embodiments the data provided to the shipping store retail entity B in this example includes data for generating a printable shipping label. For example device B may be interfaced to a label printer. When an order is received via the retail network the label printer can automatically print a shipping label which identifies the product to ship. Retail network service provider can maintain an account with one or more shippers and interface with the shipper s to make payment and in some embodiments arrange pick up by the shipper so that the shipping store simply has to place the label on product in a suitable container and make product available for pick up.

Retail network service provider can also distribute the proceeds of the sale accordingly. For example in some embodiments retail network service provider takes a commission and then splits the sale proceeds between the shipping store retail entity B in this example and the selling store retail entity C in this example . The percentages and distribution terms can vary. For instance retail entity B may not receive its share until shipment or delivery of the product is confirmed. For example in one embodiment the shipping store s share of the proceeds i.e. retailer B s share in this example is placed in an escrow account until pickup of the shipped product is confirmed by the shipper. This can be achieved for example by configuring computing device to monitor tracking data from the shipper.

In some embodiments the retail network service provider takes distribution agreements into account. Returning to the example above product may be available only from certain outlets or even a single outlet pursuant to terms set by its manufacturer. Unless retail entity C is an authorized distributor retail entity C may not be allowed to sell product . The retail network service provider can enforce such terms using a rule set that verifies whether a store can sell a product prior to indicating availability of the product via the network.

For example retail network service applications can comprise a suite of applications for managing member data inventory data interfacing with shipping credit card and other providers and for administering the retail network and providing customer service functions. Data may be accessed from local or remote sources and can comprise for example a listing of available inventory member contact information membership status customer data and other data used in the course of operating the retail network. Memory may include further components or applications such as an operating system and the like.

From a hardware perspective computing platform may also be representative of one or more devices used by retail entities in the network such as retail entities although member side software can be utilized by members rather than retail network service applications .

In some embodiments although the same hardware e.g. the shop PC may be used to interact with the retail network the member retail entity s inventory and other data is maintained entirely separately from the retail network. Thus member retail entities have no need to worry about integrating their respective systems or unknowingly sharing sensitive data with one another.

For example member retail entities may simply use a browser to access a web site or other interface provided by network service providers and utilize suitable software to print labels read customer credit debit cards and facilitate sales via the retail network. For instance in some embodiments a bar code scanner or other input device can be used to input data e.g. SKUs identifying products to be listed via the retail network with listing data uploaded via a web page or other interface. A retail entity can search the retail network for products of interest and select one or more available products to close a sale via a second web page or other interface.

As another example rather than a browser a custom client side application may be available for use by retail entities to access retail service network resources. As a further example a retail entity s point of sale POS system inventory system accounting system or other system may interface with systems of the retail network service provider through one or more application programming interfaces APIs . In such cases adequate control and security can be included to avoid the possibility of retailers tunneling through the service provider to access sensitive data from one another.

Block represents receiving an inquiry from a member retail entity for one or more products of interest. For example a salesperson may browse a listing of available products and or search for particular products by SKU or other identifier. Block represents checking to see if the product is available for sale by the inquiring member retail entity i.e. the potential selling store . This can include determining whether any other members i.e. potential shipping stores of the retail network have indicated that the product is available to the retail network. For example a database of available inventory can be queried.

The determination of whether a product is available for sale can also consider whether a requesting entity is allowed to sell the product and thus the product may be indicated as unavailable even if another member has the product in inventory. As noted above in some embodiments the retail service provider uses one or more rules to enforce limitations on product distribution and the determination of availability can consider the rule s . For example the SKU or other identifier for the product s of interest may be checked against a listing of products to determine if the member retail entity is allowed to sell the product s of interest or is prohibited from selling the product s of interest . As a particular example a list of products authorized or unauthorized for sale by the member retail entity and or a table of products along with indications of authorized and or unauthorized retail entities may be consulted. As another example the limitations may be geographic the member retail entity s location may be checked against data listing authorized member entities for products according to different geographical regions or area. In any event if the member retail entity is not allowed to sell the product then the result may indicate that the product is not available via the retail network even if another store has the product in inventory.

Block represent sending a message denying the inquiry if the product is not available. For instance an error may be returned or a not available message may be provided. However if one or more units of the product are available for the requesting member then at block the requesting member is notified of the availability.

Block represents determining whether the product s of interest have been sold i.e. has the inquiring member completed the sale If not then the process ends or is suspended until the sale is closed or abandoned. If the sale does go through then block represents designating at least one shipping retailer from which the product will be shipped. Additionally the inquiring retailer can be designated as the selling store since the inquiring retailer made the sale. For example the salesperson may click a submit or sold button committing the selling store to the sale which triggers designation of the shipping store.

In some embodiments a shipping store can be selected from one of a plurality of members of the network. For instance in some embodiments the retail network service provider computing system s determine the closest potential shipping store. As another example the selling store could be given a list of shipping stores to select from. If multiple units of a product are sold multiple shipping stores may be designated.

At block the shipping retailer s are notified of the sale and are provided shipping information. For example the data may be available via a messaging system provided by the retail network service provider and or may be provided via email or another communications method. In some embodiments the data includes a printable shipping label and other data to facilitate drop shipping by the shipping retailer.

At block the retail network service provider receives and processes customer payment information from the selling retailer. For example the salesperson may swipe a customer s credit or debit card via the store s POS system and include that data when submitting the sale request with the appropriate payment processing service contacted by the network service provider at block to transfer funds from the customer. The funds transfer may draw on a checking or other account credit card account online payment service account etc. As another example payment data may be transmitted after the sale is made.

Block also represents distributing proceeds according to the terms of the retail network. For example the retail network service provider may take a commission on each sale and split the remaining proceeds between the shipping and selling stores according to a schedule set forth as part of the terms of participation in the retail network. Additionally or alternatively the retail network service provider may rely on transaction fees and or membership fees for revenue. As an example the retail network service provider computing system may initiate a distribution of at least a portion of the funds by providing a message to a bank or other financial entity to perform a wire transfer credit a charge account or otherwise provide funds to the shipping and selling stores.

As noted above in some embodiments the proceeds are not distributed to the shipping store until shipment is confirmed. For example after payment information has been received and the transaction is processed the shipping store s share of the proceeds may be placed into an escrow account until shipment is confirmed. The retail network service provider may monitor tracking data associated with the shipment to confirm whether the product is actually shipped. As another example if a third party escrow provider is used to hold and disburse the money in escrow the third party escrow provider could be provided with information on how to confirm shipment and or the tracking data directly.

Block represents ongoing post sale activity by the retail network service provider. For example the retail network service provider may track shipment of the product to ensure that the shipping store actually ships the product and does so in a timely manner. Payment to the shipping and or selling stores may be withheld until shipment of the product as noted above or other conditions could be imposed. For example payment could be withheld until delivery of the product or confirmed receipt of the product by the customer. The retail network service provider may also provide customer support via telephone and or online interaction with customers. For example each sale handled via the retail network may have a unique identifier so that sales data and customer satisfaction can be tracked by the retail network service provider.

The example noted above was for purposes of example only. In practice the retail network service provider may be handling multiple concurrent sessions and a member entity may be acting as both a shipping store for one or more sales and a selling store for others.

Block represents an interface component such as a web server that can be used to respond to member inquiries and generate pages for viewing available inventory submitting customer data identifying inventory available to be sold via the retail network administering accounts and or providing or receiving other data to from the retail network service provider. Although a web based front end can be used some embodiments use a suitable application interface for one or more client applications customized for use with the retail network service provider.

As another example the retail network service provider may use one or more applications having an application programming interface API that can be accessed via one or more existing applications used by a retailer such as a point of sale or inventory system for more seamless integration.

Logic included in interface component or another component can be used to coordinate with other components to facilitate a sale. For example once a command is received confirming a purchase interface component or the coordinating component can use other components to designate a shipping store process payment and ensure shipping arrangements are made.

Member management can be used to manage member details such as location information payment account information authorized users and other information regarding members of the retail network. Member management component may additionally be used to coordinate sales and to track shipping and sales performance. For example once a sale is indicated member management component can be provided a list of potential shipping stores that have the product in stock. Member management component may use one or more rules to match the selling store with a suitable shipping store if multiple potential shipping stores are available.

For example member data identifying a store s mailing address may be accessed to identify the closest potential shipping store while payment account information can be accessed for use in distributing proceeds. As another example multiple sales of a product held by multiple stores may be balanced across the retail network by suitable heuristics or rules for selecting shipping stores. Member management component may also track tracked performance data such as shipping promptness customer complaints and overall sales performance.

Member management component may also be used to maintain data regarding membership participation agreements for a retail network and other rules used for handling orders and distributing proceeds. For example component may present a membership agreement to an interested retailer and provide an interface for receiving a commitment e.g. a signed document verified form etc. to abide by the terms of the agreement. Management component may present an alert to an administrator to allow participation by the retailer or may automatically allow participation once the commitment has been received.

As noted above in some embodiments the retail network will enforce limitations on distribution by only indicating availability of a product via the retail network if the requesting store is itself authorized to sell the product using a distribution ruleset. For example member management component may maintain for each member a list of products the member is authorized to sell e.g. SKU numbers provided by a manufacturer or distributor . The list of products can be checked prior to indicating that the product is available to a requesting store. As another example a list organized by product along with indications of which members are allowed or not allowed to sell the product can be used. Members may be identified individually e.g. by name member number or more generally such as by geographic area. As a further example the list may be organized by brand or manufacturer to indicate whether particular members are authorized to sell any product for the brand manufacturer. Additional factors can include date ranges during which particular members may sell or may not sell products.

Payment management component can be used to access customer payment information submitted by selling shops and interface with appropriate service providers to obtain payments from customers and to initiate a distribution of the proceeds. For example payment management component may interface with credit card processors online payment service providers financial institutions and or check processors e.g. ACH clearinghouse services to obtain funds and then distribute funds according to member agreements. Data store may include data identifying percentages to be allocated to the selling and shipping stores and retail network service provider with the percentage data used to generate wire transfers or other payments of the appropriate share to the selling store shipping store retail network service provider and or other parties.

If funds are to be held in escrow prior to shipment by the shipping store and or other events payment management component can coordinate use of an appropriate account and or third party escrow provider. For example payment management component may prepare a transfer of a shipping store s share of the proceeds of a sale until tracking or other data indicates that the product associated with the sale has actually been shipped.

As another example payment management component may release the funds to an external escrow provider with the external escrow provider instructed to hold the funds until the product has been shipped and or other conditions have been met. Payment management component may inform the external escrow provider if when the condition is met additionally or alternatively when the funds are provided to the external escrow provider sufficient information for the provider to confirm the condition s e.g. tracking numbers may be provided.

Inventory management component can be used to maintain data in data store representing products available for sale via the retail network. For example when a member identifies products via a web or other interface the SKU or other identifier s can be used to update the inventory data. Similarly when a query is received inventory management component can access the data store to identify whether the item is available. As noted above the availability determination can also in some embodiments take into account data indicating whether a requested product is allowed to be sold by the requesting store. Such information could be maintained with inventory information in addition to or instead of with member information.

When a sale is confirmed the inventory data can be updated to reduce the units of the available products. Data identifying one or more members having the sold product in stock can be provided to component to designate a shipping store. In some embodiments the inventory data may also indicate pending but not yet completed sales so that a product that is about to be sold is not indicated as available.

In some embodiments inventory management component can be cross referenced to manufacturer or other vendor data to provide information via interface component or another front end interface . For example a salesperson may search for a particular product name or SKU. Inventory management component may retrieve a list of one or more products and use manufacturer or other vendor data to provide options including product descriptions characteristics and other technical details via the web interface. Inventory management component may also support larger searches of available products such as searches by product type manufacturer vendor or other logical category inclusive of one or more particular products.

Document generator can be used to generate shipping documents to enable drop shipping from selling stores. For example document generator may interface with one or more suitable shipping companies using an account maintained by the retail network service provider to obtain a shipping authorization with a tracking number or other identifier. Customer data submitted to the retail network service provider can be used to include an address on the label which can then be forwarded to the shipping store by email or other suitable communication method.

The above architecture was discussed for purposes of example only. In practice numerous components can be used to provide the back end services to facilitate sales and shared inventory across the retail network. Additional components can be used as well for instance a customer service module can be included to provide data to and receive feedback from customers and to facilitate telephone and online support.

Password and or other security and authentication methods can be supported to maintain the integrity of the system. For example an authorization routine may be carried out when a user logs into the retail network computing system to ensure that the login is from a member retailer and not from an entity outside the network such as a non participating shop or even a customer seeking a direct sale . In some embodiments requests are verified to ensure they are from a device within the premises of a retailer indoor or outdoor depending on the circumstances of the retailer . Any suitable security technique s can be used to verify the identity and origin of logins and requests including but not limited to passwords IP address verification security tokens hardware and or software etc.

Shipment management components can be used to obtain tracking and other information from shippers for example a shipment management component may be configured to communicate with a shipper computing system e.g. via APIs of web services provided by the shipper in order periodically check shipment status to confirm when a shipment has left a shipping store. The shipment status can be stored in data store with the tracking update used to determine when or whether to release funds to the shipping store and or for other purposes.

Although the retail network was discussed using examples of independent retailers a large retail entity could be a member of a retail network as well. For example a large chain store may be a member of a retail network but its participation may be limited to one or more specified department s product line s or product categories in the membership participation agreement s for the retail network.

The various systems discussed herein are not limited to any particular hardware architecture or configuration. A computing device can include any suitable arrangement of components that provide a result conditioned on one or more inputs. Suitable computing devices include multipurpose microprocessor based computer systems accessing stored software that programs or configures the computing system from a general purpose computing apparatus to a specialized computing apparatus implementing one or more embodiments of the present subject matter. Any suitable programming scripting or other type of language or combinations of languages may be used to implement the teachings contained herein in software to be used in programming or configuring a computing device.

Embodiments of the methods disclosed herein may be performed in the operation of such computing devices. The order of the blocks presented in the examples above can be varied for example blocks can be re ordered combined and or broken into sub blocks. Certain blocks or processes can be performed in parallel.

A computing device may access one or more non transitory computer readable media that embody computer readable instructions which when executed by at least one computer cause the at least one computer to implement one or more embodiments of the present subject matter. When software is utilized the software may comprise one or more components processes and or applications. Additionally or alternatively to software the computing device s may comprise circuitry that renders the device s operative to implement one or more of the methods of the present subject matter.

Examples of computing devices include but are not limited to servers personal computers personal digital assistants PDAs cellular telephones televisions television set top boxes and portable music players. Computing devices may be integrated into other devices e.g. smart appliances automobiles kiosks and the like.

The inherent flexibility of computer based systems allows for a great variety of possible configurations combinations and divisions of tasks and functionality between and among components. For instance processes discussed herein may be implemented using a single computing device or multiple computing devices working in combination. Databases and applications may be implemented on a single system or distributed across multiple systems. Distributed components may operate sequentially or in parallel.

When data is obtained or accessed as between a first and second computer system or components thereof the actual data may travel between the systems directly or indirectly. For example if a first computer accesses data from a second computer the access may involve one or more intermediary computers proxies and the like. The actual data may move between the first and second computers or the first computer may provide a pointer or metafile that the second computer uses to access the actual data from a computer other than the first computer for instance. Data may be pulled via a request or pushed without a request in various embodiments.

The technology referenced herein also makes reference to communicating data between components or systems. It should be appreciated that such communications may occur over any suitable number or type of networks or links including but not limited to a dial in network a local area network LAN wide area network WAN public switched telephone network PSTN the Internet an intranet or any combination of hard wired and or wireless communication links.

Any suitable non transitory computer readable medium or media may be used to implement or practice the presently disclosed subject matter including but not limited to diskettes drives magnetic based storage media optical storage media including disks including CD ROMS DVD ROMS and variants thereof flash RAM ROM and other memory devices.

The use of adapted to or configured to herein is meant as open and inclusive language that does not foreclose devices adapted to or configured to perform additional tasks or steps. Additionally the use of based on is meant to be open and inclusive in that a process step calculation or other action based on one or more recited conditions or values may in practice be based on additional conditions or values beyond those recited. Headings lists and numbering included herein are for ease of explanation only and are not meant to be limiting.

While the present subject matter has been described in detail with respect to specific embodiments thereof it will be appreciated that those skilled in the art upon attaining an understanding of the foregoing may readily produce alterations to variations of and equivalents to such embodiments. Accordingly it should be understood that the present disclosure has been presented for purposes of example rather than limitation and does not preclude inclusion of such modifications variations and or additions to the present subject matter as would be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art.

