---

title: Free-space quantum communications system and process operative absent line-of-sight
abstract: Photonic signals are tagged with a pre-selected modification, such as a polarization signature to carry data across an obstructed path between sender and receiver. Communication authentication through polarization variation allows for Yuen-Kumar or entangled photon quantum communication protocols to propagate through environmental scattering media such as air, smoke, fog, rain, and water. While ultraviolet light photons are well suited as a carrier for quantum communication signals scattered in air, it is appreciated that visible wavelengths have longer propagation paths in water to convey non-line-of-sight data. A secure signal is scattered by the media and simultaneously communicated to a single recipient or multiple recipients exposed to scattered signal portions. A process of solving the scattering processes through a random scattering media is provided to reconstruct a quantum keyed message at a receiver. The scattering of the signal is utilized herein to provide non-line-of-sight and intentional short-range communication.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07945168&OS=07945168&RS=07945168
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07945168
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100820
---
This application is a divisional application of and claims priority of U.S. Nonprovisional patent application Ser. No. 11 387 085 entitled Free space Quantum Communications Process Operative Abesent Line of sight filed Mar. 20 2006 and also claims priority of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 663 143 filed Mar. 18 2005 both of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by or for the United States Government.

This invention relates in general to methods and apparatus for non line of sight quantum communication and in particular to a short range secure optical communication scheme using the properties of solar blind photon propagation in the scattering media.

Currently short range communication of up to one kilometer is largely dependent on infrastructure intensive cellular networks direct radio frequency or optical signaling. However in regions lacking such infrastructure and points of communication are separated by obstructions these traditional methods of communication are inadequate. Additionally traditional optical and radio frequency communication are prone to interference associated with conditions such as environmental scatter and other signals. In situations where confidential information is to be communicated existing methods of information transmission rely on data encryption since the transmitted signals are subject to eavesdropping. These problems have previously been so intractable in the area of secure communication that business governmental and military units often resort to couriers for the short range transport of such messages. The use of a courier is an incomplete solution that is cumbersome and slow especially when a geographic or manmade obstacle is involved.

In an effort to address these limitations others have looked to optical communication. There have been reports of U.S. Navy research on intentionally short range optical communications 5 . Many solar blind UV systems were reported on including an ultraviolet UV laser system that showed 500 m non line of sight NLOS digital data transmission in field tests. Unfortunately the reported transmissions were not of a secure nature.

Thus there exists a need for a short range secure communication that is not dependent on line of sight. An additional need exists for a communication system that is tolerant of environmental scattering as the signal propagates there through.

Photonic signals are tagged with a pre selected modification such as a polarization signature to carry data across an obstructed path between sender and receiver. Communication authentication through polarization variation allows for Yuen Kumar or entangled photon quantum communication protocols to propagate through environmental scattering media such as air smoke fog rain and water. While ultraviolet light photons are well suited as a carrier for quantum communication signals scattered in air it is appreciated that visible wavelengths have longer propagation paths in water to convey non line of sight data. A secure signal is scattered by the media and simultaneously communicated to a single recipient or multiple recipients exposed to scattered signal portions. A process of solving the scattering processes through a random scattering media is provided to reconstruct a quantum encoded message at a receiver. The scattering of the signal is utilized herein to provide non line of sight and intentional short range communication.

The present invention has utility as a secure short range quantum communication scheme that is operative independent of a direct line of sight between a sender and receiver. The scatter caused by the environment to a light beam is the basis of non line of sight communication. The manipulation of photons as a carrier for quantum communication data is provided by a polarization signature as the basis for the inventive non line of sight secure short range communication. The present invention has applications for communication within mobile small networks that optionally have a need for simultaneous multicasting to multiple recipients.

As used herein short range communication is defined as the ability to send a signal between a sender and receiver separated by up to several kilometers within an outside range of ten kilometers.

It is appreciated that ultraviolet UV radiation is well suited for non line of sight quantum communication in air specific wavelengths will have different scattering characteristics under a given set of environmental conditions illustratively including humidity particulate and turbulence. In a preferred embodiment a UV light source such as UV laser is provided with multiple laser lines is used with the ability to change carrier wave wavelength to achieve a desired range of signal propagation through the scattering medium. The present invention is also operative with water as the scattering media with the recognition that longer wavelengths of visible blue green light have greater propagation distances in water relative to ultraviolet wavelengths. As such a water based intentionally short range non line of sight quantum communication system uses a blue green carrier wavelength of between 440 and 560 nanometers for maximal range. It is appreciated that the present invention is also operative in transmission through solid substance such as ice soil and rock with resort to a propagation wavelength that is scattered by the solid media yet transmissive through the volume of solid to be traverse by the message. Communication through a solid typically involves infrared and longer wavelengths of more than 800 nanometers.

UV radiation is subject to absorption and scattering in media. The media is characterized by absorption and scattering parameters. When considering in the abstract a light ray scattering can be characterized by Mueller matrices which also handle partial absorption. On the other hand scattering of discrete photons results in absorption or a form of scattering depending on the state of the photon and atoms. When light is scattered by a scattering media each photon takes a different path as a result of scattering off the separate atoms or aggregate groups of atoms such as aerosols. The result of the scattered collection of photons is a beam that spreads due to scattering in turbid media analogous to a diffusion or Markov process. The dispersion in the atmosphere depends on the wavelength.

To understand light propagation through a random medium resort is made to Maxwell s equation. Environmental media such as air water smoke and fog are well approximated as random media. Maxwell s equations can be put in the following form typically suitable for scattering considerations 1 .

For scattering purposes the version of the equations that are uses assume no sources and currents. The material properties are provided by the relations where r and r are in the form of scalars for isotropic media and otherwise are in the form of tensors. Substituting the isotopic media scalar forms of these equations into Maxwell s Equations yields

The Decomposition Method is applied to the random Helmholtz equation in Cartesian coordinates. Here k r is considered to be a random variable with outcomes prescribed by a probability density function. The equation is solved as where and

Operating on the first equation yields The result is 0 0 0 0 0 0 The terms E are expanded in a series

Resulting from the scattered collection of photons is a beam that spreads because of scattering in turbid media which is analogous to a diffusion or Markov process 6 . The dispersion in the atmosphere depends on the wavelength 7 . While many of the photons of the beam change polarization some of the photons do not have polarization changes and some have only small polarization changes. Over small distances the polarization of most photons does not change very much although some photons will have significant changes in polarization. Experimental results on beam breakdown caused by aerosols at 266 nm have also been presented 8 . These types of data can be compared against longer wavelength energy loss. Atmospheric propagation losses at the longer wavelength of 523 nm are known 9 .

In the atmosphere ozone and oxygen are the major absorbers 10 11 . Radiation is scattered by molecules according to the Rayleigh scattering process 12 and by aerosols according to general Mie scattering principles 13 . In the case of the atmosphere or any fluid the density and corresponding index of refraction time space variability create beam spreading called optical turbulence 14 15 . In the atmosphere there is far more scattering for UV than for visible light.

Because atmospheric density decreases quickly with height in the ideal atmosphere there is less turbulence induced scattering for UV vertical beams than for horizontal beams. In non storm conditions the turbulence near the ground tends to have more thermal moisture and terrain forcing. The atmosphere has temperature and density inversions as a function of height. These inversions create channeling ducting and reflecting of signals due to density patterns. The inversions often signal pollution layers. These concentrations have their own scattering and absorption properties 16 18 . In addition meteorological clouds may be present. These clouds provide extra scattering properties. The density of the atmosphere decreases rapidly with height and under ideal conditions UV for light detection and ranging lidar can propagate many kilometers in the vertical 19 . Results of a UV 351 nm guidestar system working out to 20 km from the ground have been documented 20 . Stand off remote Raman lidar using 266 nm light for ranges up to 60 m 21 have been documented. A study predicts the character of 200 m pulse propagation for 220 440 nm laser pulses 22 .

Non Poisson quantum fluctuations in an invariance regime can propagate farther than coherent laser speckle. In such situations the non Poissonian statistics survive over long distances 23 . Lodhal shows that the spatial correlations of quantum light have infinite range and remain intact after moving through random media. The non Poisson aspects of a quantum system in having a long linear extent relative to classical beam coherence is invoked in the present invention to for authentication and increased transmission range beyond the extent of laser speckle or other coherence associated with the light source.

A variation of the polarization amplitude or timing allows Yuen Kumar 3 quantum communication QC as an authentication of the signal. QC in the presence of scattering has implications in quantum microdevices such as quantum dots used for quantum computing and QC as well as in the macro environment.

Free space UV QC is more stealthy than many other forms of visible light optical communication. If the UV is in the solar blind region then there are far fewer competing external noise photons from the sun. The source beam is absorbed by the atmosphere after a propagation distance of a kilometer or so and will thus be shielded by the atmosphere from long distance surveillance. Also because of the small natural background of UV solar blind noise photons a smaller source strength can be used and hence lower power. The quantum encoding presents secure encryption capability.

Tagging a photon modeled by scatter from a random media with a polarization or an entanglement with another photon signature provides a method of communicating information by way of a scattered photon.

A quantum key encryption technique according to the present invention preferably invokes Yuen Kumar coherent states of different amplitudes that are linearly independent and span infinite dimensional space denoted as qumodes. In a single mode realization M possible coherent states are represented by

The qumodes are optionally associated with polarization time or frequency. As depicted in prior art Left M points uniformly distributed on a fixed great circle on the Poincar sphere are used for M 2 possible bases. The opposite points on a diameter correspond to two orthogonal states of a basis representing the 0 and 1 bit value for that basis. The two neighbors of each point on the circle are taken to represent a different bit value. A secret key is used to select a specific basis for each qumode between users A and B as well as a polarity bit that is added to the data bit for randomizing the polarity of the basis. A long running key K for such selection is obtained as the output from a standard encryption mechanism operating on a basic shorter key K as depicted in Right . For each data bit a total of 1 log M 2 bits from K is used to determine the polarity bit and the selection of M 2 possible bases. Yuen 3 4 has shown that granting an eavesdropper E a perfect copy of the ciphered bit but without knowing the secret key the probability of error is P when M while P efor B since the secret key is known to B. Thus even with perfect eavesdropping that is getting a perfect copy of the ciphered bit E s probability of making correct decisions is the same as pure guessing.

In application a secret key is used to synchronize the qumode variable. Preferably the qumode variable is polarization of a light source even though through the use of a frequency modulating crystal or a chopper frequency or pulse time qumode variables respective are used. It is appreciated in the case of polarization that a large number of polarization keys are available as defined by the Poincar sphere. A light source as used herein is appreciated to include both coherent sources and non Poisson statistical sources. A light source is considered a coherent or Poisson light source when it satisfies at least criterion of constant intensity intensity fluctuation but only a small fraction of the output is used to transmit data intensity fluctuations are rapid temporal incoherence perfect monochromaticity spatially and temporally coherent and quantum mechanically coherent state. A light source is considered an incoherent or non Poisson light source when it satisfies at least criterion of slow intensity fluctuations is quasi thermal or the light produced is from an ensemble of light source elements.

A properly functioning laser operating as a Poissonian light source is appreciated to be a convenient high flux source of photons is preferred for the practice of the present invention. However as detailed above non Poissonian sources do afford advantages over Poissonian sources in terms of longer transmission distances and signal authentication.

A communication system according to the present invention is shown in and uses an ultraviolet laser as a light source in an air medium as a photonic source. A polarizer receives a light source output and is set to a preselected modification key value relative to a receiver shown generally at . It is appreciated that the effective communication range is decreased by insertion of a filter into the optical intermediate between the light source and a receiver . An optical amplitude or phase modulator receives the polarized quantum communication photonic signal and creates an arbitrarily modulated quantum communication photonic signal that proceeds to scatter through a light scattering medium denoted A. Exemplary polarization phase modulators illustratively include liquid crystals Kerr cells and Pockel cells. Preferably a series of two liquid crystal devices and a quarter wave plate are used to achieve arbitrary polarization. A scattered portion of the arbitrarily modulated quantum communication photonic signal has scattered around an obstacle denoted at B. It is appreciated that the scatter that affords the non line of sight capability of the present invention also limits the distance at which the arbitrarily modulated quantum communication photonic signal is detectable.

A receiver includes an optical phase or amplitude modulator of the same type as that in place in the transmitter modulator with the modulator configured as a demodulator. A polarizer is set to the same Poincar sphere setting as polarizer and represents the shared key. The resulting signal then contacts a polarization beam splitter . Preferably beam splitter is a 50 50 splitter. The orthogonal signals and are incident on photon detectors and that count incident photon receipt and report a counting event to temporal coincidence electronics as a series of zeroes and ones. Photon detectors operative herein illustratively include single photon counting modules and conventional photon intensity detectors such as charge coupled devices and gated photon counters. Optionally lenses are interposed within the receiver to collimate optical signals to subsequent components. It is appreciated that beam on additional splitters or filters along an optical path further facilitates signal attenuation in the event of a signal of excessive intensity. A second receiver is also depicted in with like components relative to receiver and modulator and polarizer to illustrate the multi cast nature of the present invention.

It is appreciated that short range non line of sight quantum communication is also performed with a dual photon entangled pair carrier. As shown in where like numerals correspond to those detailed with respect to a Type I nonlinear crystal receives an optical output from light source . The crystal generates entangled photon pairs with near collinearity . The entangled photon pairs with near collinearity is scattered by medium A to generate a scattered signal that scatters around an obstacle B and to a receiver shown collectively at . Preferably the crystal is tuned for non degenerative down conversion with regard to dichroic mirrors and . Narrow band filters and are used to provide shared quantum keys after optical signals are transmitted through optional lenses to photon detectors and before a signal is fed to electronics . Although the stochastic energy based entanglement technique is not theoretically resistant to eavesdropping on shared quantum keys because of the possibility of cloning in practice it is difficult to eavesdrop on because of timing constraints. This method can be used as a research model system and can be used to generate shared random keys in an environment where eavesdropping is not a threat. Optionally the insertion of Poincar sphere aligned polarizers and afford a secure communication system.

Presented herein are new quantum communication schemes suitable for free space wireless quantum communication implementation. In particular presented are entangled quantum communication schemes and Non line of Sight Free Space Photon Quantum Communications. The presence of atmospheric scattering media UV photons can be used for non line of sight quantum communications. Non Poisson quantum fluctuations in an invariance regime can propagate further than coherent laser speckle. In such situations the non Poissonian statistics survive over long distances and should be taggable with a polarization signature. Quantum noise observables scale markedly differently with scattering parameters compared to classical noise observables. Variation of the polarization should allow Yuen Kumar quantum communications using non Poissonian statistics of the beam as an authentication of the signal.

The non line of sight communication in the UV would be expected to be possible to at least a range of 1 km and falls under the category of deliberately short range quantum communication. Such applications of importance for this method include military stealth and optical communications in the presence of obstacles such as a forest or urban environment.

Quantum wireless optical communications is a new field of communications. It is becoming important because it offers schemes of communications with unprecedented encryption security and because of its potential for information compression. Presented herein are new quantum communication schemes suitable for free space quantum wireless free space optical communication implementation. In particular presented herein are several entangled quantum communication schemes originally configured for Line of Sight communications set forth for Non Line of Sight NLOS Free Space Photon Quantum Communications. In the presence of atmospheric scattering media UV photons can be used for UV NLOS quantum communications.

Various designs of stochastic quantum communication systems do not have a modulator but depend on time information to unscramble information sent. An initial design and experimental look into stochastic quantum communications systems has been developed. An advantage of this approach is a savings in control electro optics and possibly as an alternate way to encrypt. Cost reduction advantages are also likely to be realized in the future as advances in materials design and manufacturing are made.

Entanglement communication has been developed and analyzed by several laboratory systems where no modulation was used on the laser source demonstrating the feasibility of using entangled stochastic quantum key distribution and entangled quantum imaging concepts. Lasers emit photons stochastically in time. At least one system developed by the inventors used the stochasticity of the photon source without any prescribed modulation of the laser source. Several stochastic quantum systems are discussed in the following where entanglement was used to advantage. Entanglement is an important property of quantum communications and was first described by Einstein as a spooky action at a distance. Key quantum entanglement properties were uncovered theoretically and experimentally. Entanglement can be used for several purposes including Quantum Key Distribution QKD 2n dense coding image transfer and heralding for signal collection. Novel QKD systems include Heralded Stochastic Quantum Key Distribution HSQKD Entanglement Enhanced Quantum Key Distribution EEQKD and Entangled Energy Quantum Key Distribution EEnQKD . In addition a novel Quantum imaging system has been analyzed and implemented. Also described is the embedding of a shared quantum key into a quantum imaging system. A quantum imaging system has been described which uses only one quantum channel to transmit the image information. The single channel imaging system is called Entanglement Imaging QKD Coincidence Detection.

The challenge of Quantum key distribution QKD is to use the understanding of quantum physics to generate and distribute cryptographic keys with to provide a higher level of security in communications than can be accomplished using approaches based on classical physics. In order to achieve this goal there are significant accomplishments that must be overcome in practice although important successes have already been achieved in demonstration projects. Challenges common to many QKD and other communication methods are the speed of the sender s laser modulation speed of receiver s detectors and in the quantum photon methods reasonable assurance of having a single photon. Physical security is often overlooked in consideration of QKD systems. However challenges related to the physical security have which been identified include the speeding up of the modulation of the laser sources eliminating the use of software driven random number generators and eliminating the signature of the laser modulating electronic equipment. When for example an eavesdropper is near the sender physical security and stealth is important. Consideration must be given to mitigate the ability of the eavesdropper to be able to electronically detect the modulated power drawn by the sender s lasers or be able to read the pseudo random number generator the sender uses to choose frames. Other challenges in QKD system design include power cost weight and robustness of operation.

In the method of heralded stochastic QKD HSQKD the senders side has two lasers a nonlinear crystal in front of each laser to generate a time entangled pair of photons. The laser can be continuous wave cw and the wave vectors oriented for Type II spontaneous parametric down conversion SPDC although other configurations may sometimes be useful. The two photons impinge on a 50 50 beam splitter equal probabilities of reflection and transmission . Those photons that are reflected pass through a polarizing prism that separates photons perpendicular to the crystal s optical axis i.e. 0 and parallel to the crystal s optical axis 90 . A polarizer oriented at 45 filters the 90 side of the polarizing prism. Some of the photons that are not detected on the sender s side go on to the receiver. The photons at the receiver s side also transmit through another 50 50 beam splitter and those pass through another polarizing prism also oriented at 0 and 90 . A polarizer at 45 filters the 0 side of the polarizing prism. Signals are monitored for the four detectors D 0 D 45 D 90 D 45 just described at the sender 0 and 45 and at the receiver 90 and 45 .

Certain pairs of detection events are prohibited for Type II SPDC regardless of the quantum state. If the sender detects a photon with the 0 polarizer then the receiver can never detect a photon with the 90 photon. Similarly if the sender detects a photon with the 45 polarizer then the receiver cannot detect a photon with the 45 polarizer.

The laboratory implementation of designs similar to this at the Army Research Laboratory were realized using diode lasers and Single Photon Counting Modules SPCMs and Beta Barium Borate BBO crystals. Two continuous wave cw diode lasers were used as the source of photons and neutral density filters used to cut down the intensity for photon counting. The four photodetectors were SPCMs and narrow band filters at the degenerate SPDC wavelength . 10 run were used to protect them. The SPDC was collimated at the sender s side and projected a distance of 10 feet to the receiver s side. The photon coincidences were counted using a time amplitude converter ORTEC and processed in a PC. The PC processed the steps of the protocol that governs the generation of the quantum key.

The HSQKD Configuration is diagrammed in Provisional Application No. 60 653143 . The sender uses two nonlinear crystals at appropriate angles to generate Type I parametric fluorescence with degenerate wavelengths for signal and idler. The ideal crystal is cut and adjusted for Type I phase matching conditions for collinear and degenerate parametric fluorescence of the symmetric energy state. Both energy states will have the same polarization. The optical axis of the first nonlinear crystal in input channel a is 0 while the other nonlinear crystal in input channel b is oriented at 45 to horizontal in the laboratory frame. The crystal in a is followed by a beam splitter 50 50 a polarizer with an optical axis at 0 and a photon counting detector. The crystal in b is followed by a beam splitter 50 50 a polarizer with an optical axis at 45 and another photon counting detector. The remaining beams are recombined by use of another polarizer 50 50 into a single beam that is sent to the beam splitter 50 50 of the receiver. At the receiver one beam in channel A passes through a polarizer oriented at 45 to the horizontal to a photon counting detector while the other beam in channel B passes through a polarizer oriented at 90 to the horizontal. The heralded QKD protocol is based on synchronized clocks or timing pulses and joint single photon measurements.

The Heralded Stochastic Quantum Key Distribution HSQKD System scheme shows how entanglement can be used to simplify both the optics and the electronics while achieving security and speed. A protocol was developed which maintains secrecy and takes advantage of the photon stochastically from parametric down conversion crystal. The quantum key for translating a secret message to an encrypted message and for translating the encrypted message back to the secret message is represented by an operator Ki that acts on the ith bit value either with an identity or inverse operator. The protocol for determining Ki was given in R. Meyers K. Deacon Entangled Photon Quantum Communications and Quantum Imaging SPIE Proceedings Vol. 5161 2003 . The background of signals that must be rejected depends on the two photon quantum state. The method of heralded photons is different from the B92 protocol in that it uses stochastic times uses quantum fluctuations instead of the sender s choice of frames and can use continuous wave lasers. The method of heralded photons is as secure against eavesdroppers as the B92 protocol. It is secure against some challenges to the physical security of the sender. However the algorithms for generating and distributing a quantum key may be more complex than the standard B92 protocol.

Quantum imaging uses quantum physics to produce an image and has potential or realized advantages in many areas of imaging and communications. QKD and Quantum imaging are normally discussed as separate processes. However in the following we briefly discuss using entanglement used in quantum imaging to achieve the embedding of a shared quantum key. An idealized laboratory setup is different from the usual quantum imaging setup. The difference is that polarizing beam splitters are placed in the path of the photons to provide two channels for each of the sender and receiver of the images. In the method the sender Alice sends the image of a mask to the receiver Bob . In the figure PA is the path for photons on side of the sender Alice and PB is the path on side of the receiver Bob . Bob will receive the image entirely from the photon coincidence measurements composited from his two scanning fiber tips in front of the detectors. Fast single photon CCDs can be used in a manner to obtain equivalent information to that of the scanning fiber tips. A stochastic quantum key is also generated between Alice and Bob based on the type of coincidence detected for instance a PAV PBH coincidence could be a bit and a PAH PBV could be a bit . The standard types of privacy amplification and key distillation algorithms can then be applied to this random shared bitstream. The embedding of this type of quantum key into quantum image transmission opens up the concept of Quantum Steganography.

A Quantum Channel Only Entanglement Imaging system is a means of transmitting an image using only a quantum channel is presented. The laboratory setup of a quantum imaging setup uses no classical channel between the sender and the receiver. This layout differs from earlier systems in that instead of a classical and a quantum channel being used to send the information of the image only a quantum channel is used in this system.

An Energy Entangled Stochastic Quantum Key Distribution EnESQKD is a system which generates nearly collinear energy entangled photons and uses dichroic mirrors and narrowband filters to aid in the generation of shared quantum keys. While the stochastic energy based entanglement technique in not theoretically resistant to eavesdropping on shared quantum keys because of the possibility of cloning in practice it is difficult to eavesdrop on because of timing constraints. This method can be used as a research model system and can be used to generate shared random keys in an environment where eavesdropping is not a threat.

An Entanglement Enhanced Stochastic Quantum Key Distribution EESQKD uses entanglement to increase the ratio of detected and counted photons to that of background detected and counted photons as seen in . Nearly collinear energy entangled photons released in a stochastic unmodulated form are sent by the sender Alice to the receiver Bob through each of two laser sources with polarizers applied to the energy entangled pair. The polarizers are set up in a manner consistent with the B92 protocols. When the entangled photons are detected by the receiver Bob then a beam splitter will split each pair of biphotons and coincidences determine that the photons are from the sender Alice rather than being stray photons. Advantages to the method include stochasticity features mentioned above and enhancement of signal detection by means of coincidence measurements.

The feasibility of entangled quantum communications which use stochasticity in photon sources rather than laser modulation was explored through the development of several experimental prototype systems. Analyzed were Heralded Stochastic Quantum Key Distribution HSQKD Entanglement Enhanced Quantum Key Distribution EEQKD Entangled Energy Quantum Key Distribution EEnQKD Entanglement Imaging QKD Coincidence Detection and an Entangled Imaging system that only uses a quantum channel. It was found that stochastic entangled quantum communications with continuous wave laser sources works well. It may find use in special applications needing advantages of small cost weight power and robustness since modulation hardware and software is not necessary with this approach.

Heralded Stochastic Quantum Key Distribution provides coincidence entanglement generated heralded timing in QKD. The Stochastic Energy Entanglement system may find use in applications coupled to other technologies and as a model quantum entanglement system.

Patent documents and publications mentioned in the specification are indicative of the levels of those skilled in the art to which the invention pertains. These documents and publications are incorporated herein by reference to the same extent as if each individual document or publication was specifically and individually incorporated herein by reference.

The foregoing description is illustrative of particular embodiments of the invention but is not meant to be a limitation upon the practice thereof. The following claims including all equivalents thereof are intended to define the scope of the invention.

