---

title: System and method for obtaining and using location specific information
abstract: A location information system uses a positioning system, such as the civilian Navstar Global Positioning System (GPS), in combination with a distributed network. The location information system includes a radio transceiver for communicating to the distributed network and a GPS receiving system. The GPS receiving system receives a signal from the GPS and converts it into a coordinate entry. The coordinate entry is transmitted to the distributed network for retrieval of corresponding location specific information. The location specific information may reside on a web page. The coordinate entry may be incorporated into the web page address that supports the coordinate entry or linked to an existing web page associated with the coordinate entry. The web page and associated information is displayed. Bar code labels, infrared beacons and other labeling systems may also be used in the location information system in place of or in addition to the GPS receiving system to supply location identification information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=RE042927&OS=RE042927&RS=RE042927
owner: Apple Inc.
number: RE042927
owner_city: Cupertino
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100901
---
The invention generally relates to obtaining information relating to a specific location using a positioning system. More particularly the invention relates to a system and method for obtaining location specific information about a particular location using a distributed network in combination with the positioning system.

Many people travel throughout the world or even their own local communities without realizing the wealth of information concerning their surroundings. For example people travel in their own communities without knowing what buildings may be of historical significance or what shopping center may have a specific store or whether any store in the shopping center sells a specific product.

In many instances people rely on brochures or other literature in order to familiarize themselves with their surroundings. These brochures may include tourist travel brochures shopping mall directories maps or other similar literature. However these brochures are not very informative because they contain limited amounts of information. The amount of information is limited due to factors such as high distribution costs. Accordingly relatively little money is available for research writing and printing. Thus much information that would otherwise be informative to the public may not be included in these brochures.

This lack of information often results in ineffective advertising for businesses. The public is also unable to effectively obtain adequate information about their surroundings. For example a business may not be able to provide the consumer with a list of products sold in a particular store. Similarly a local historical building may not be able to provide the public with effective information concerning the significance of the historical site. Information concerning i local wildlife and vegetation ii locations of shopping centers iii government information and many other types of information may also be limited or non existent.

However many entities such as stores historical sites and or multi national businesses now utilize distributed networks such as the Internet and more particularly the World Wide Web portion of the Internet to provide the public with useful information. For example information about a historical site such as a Civil War battlefield may be disseminated via the World Wide Web and accessed though commercial Internet service providers ISPs . The World Wide Web also provides the public with countless amounts of other information such as business data stock quotes or official government information.

However a user will not have access to the desired information unless they manually input a web address or uniform resource locator URL associated with a particular web page. In these cases it may be difficult to retrieve the web page because the URL may be difficult to locate even with the sophisticated search engines currently available. Also the web address may be very long which may result in a mistake when entering the web address.

Furthermore when attempting to find location information about specific locations a user may not know the keywords or other pertinent information in order to extract the desired information relating to that location. For example a person may want information concerning local vegetation or wildlife but is unable to define an adequate search to find that specific information.

This invention provides a system and method that combines a positioning system for example the Navstar Global Positioning System GPS with a distributed network such as the Internet to provide real time location specific information. That is the positioning system provides a signal that is converted into a coordinate entry e.g. specific latitude and longitude coordinates . The system and method of this invention then references the coordinate entry to a particular web page associated with the coordinate entry.

The location information system preferably comprises a computer or personal digital assistant PDA and supports a radio connection and a positioning system receiving system. The positioning system receiving system receives signals from a set of positioning system transmitters such as a set of satellites when using the GPS. The signals are converted into a coordinate entry by the positioning system receiving system and transmitted via a transmission to a server on the distributed network. The coordinate entry may be combined with a URL to make a unique URL that references a web page on a predetermined server for a particular web page that describes that location. The coordinate entry may also for example link to an existing web page on the distributed network associated with the coordinate entry. The web page and associated information such as historical information local areas of interest shopping centers and the like are transmitted to the location information system and displayed.

Printed label codes and other labeling systems can also be used with the location information system. In one embodiment bar code labels may be provided on various stores public buildings exhibition centers statutes and the like. The computer or PDA is provided with a bar code scanner for scanning the bar code on the bar code labels. The system then decodes the bar code to obtain the coordinate entry or URL for the associated web page. The coordinate entry is provided to the distributed network which either incorporates the coordinate entry into a URL referencing a web page on a predetermined node which contains the location specific information or provides a hyperlink to a preexisting web page located on a separate node on the distributed network. Alternatively infrared beacons may be used to provide the coordinate entry or URL to the location information system via an infrared detector. In this case the location information system receives the infrared signals from a short distance up to approximately 25 feet . The location information system then decodes the signals into the coordinate entry or the URL. The location information system then transmits the coordinate entry or URL to the distributed network via a transmission such as a radio transmission. A web page associated with the coordinate entry is then retrieved and displayed on the computer or PDA.

The location information method preferably includes receiving signals from the positioning system transmitters and converting the signals to a coordinate entry. The coordinate entry is then transmitted to the distributed network. Web pages residing on the distributed network and having an associated coordinate entry are then retrieved based on the coordinate entry transmitted to the distributed network. The web pages are then displayed by the location information system.

These and other aspects and salient features of the invention will be described in or are apparent from the following detailed description of preferred embodiments.

Distributed networks such as the Internet and other private and commercial distributed networks are a source of useful information. This information varies from advertisements to educational information to business data. This information is typically resident on a particular web page having a unique URL or address that is provided on the World Wide Web for example. For a user to obtain this information the user either enters into the computer a unique URL for retrieving the web page or certain keywords in order to search for the web page using well known search engines.

Positioning systems such as the civilian service provided by Navstar Global Positioning System GPS provide latitudinal and longitudinal information on the surface of the earth to an accuracy of approximately 300 feet. The GPS may also provide information concerning altitude. When combined with accurate location references such as differential GPS an accuracy of better than three feet may be achieved. This information may be obtained using a positioning system receiver and transmitter as is well known in the art. For purposes of this application the civilian service provided by Navstar Global Positioning System GPS will be discussed with reference to the instant invention. However other positioning systems such as LORAN and the like are also contemplated for use with the present invention.

In order for the GPS to properly provide location identification information e.g. a coordinate entry the GPS comprises several transmitters e.g. satellites each having a clock synchronized with respect to each other. The ground stations communicate with GPS satellites and ensure that the clocks remain synchronized. The ground stations also track the GPS satellites and transmit information so that each satellite knows its position at any given time. The GPS satellites broadcast time stamped signals containing the satellites positions to any GPS receiver that is within the communication path and is tuned to the frequency of the GPS signal. The GPS receiver also includes a time clock. The GPS receiver then compares its time to the synchronized times and the location of the GPS satellites. This comparison is then used in determining an accurate coordinate entry.

Information associated with the coordinate entry defining a specific location is then transmitted to the computer via the transceiver i.e. by either a radio network or other wireless or wire communication link and displayed on the display . Information about various locations is organized and stored on the distributed network and is preferably organized as web pages. The web pages or pointers to them are preferably stored on the predetermined node of the distributed network . However the web pages may also be stored at various other nodes on the distributed network and may be associated with one or more coordinate entries corresponding to physical locations. The web pages may have for example an already existing URL e.g. a proprietary pre existing URL. Alternatively coordinate information may be incorporated into an existing URL to form a unique URL. Further the coordinate entry may also be the entire URL of the web pages. A client either local or remote may access the web pages preferably via a server on the predetermined node of the distributed network .

In preferred embodiments the location information system transmits via the transceiver the coordinate entries directly to the predetermined node of the distributed network having the web pages associated with the coordinate entries residing thereon. In this case the web pages and the coordinate entries are stored on the same node of the distributed network . Alternatively the web pages and the coordinate entries may be stored on separate nodes of the distributed network .

In embodiments when the coordinate entry is provided on a separate node distinct from the node or nodes storing the corresponding web pages the location information system provides a reference page on the predetermined node of the distributed network . The reference page provides a hyperlink to a web page or pages located on separate nodes. In the case when the web page is located on a separate node a directory list of names of all web pages associated with coordinate entries may be stored on the predetermined node . The directory page may then access the directory list in order to determine whether the web page associated with a particular coordinate entry resides on another node of the distributed network . In embodiments the computer transmits the hyperlink string and receives the web pages via the transceiver . The corresponding web pages residing on a separate node of the distributed network may also be directly accessed from the predetermined node and downloaded to the computer via the radio transceiver without the use of the hyperlinks. In embodiments this may be provided by a common gateway interface script CGI as discussed below. The corresponding web pages provide the user with specific information associated with the coordinate entry representing that location.

The location information system can also provide the user with a map of an area based on the coordinate entry. In this case the location information system is provided with a map database that is displayed on the display . The user points to and clicks on a specific location on the map using a mouse or other interactive device . The specific location is associated with one or more coordinate entries or a unique URL. The coordinate entries or URLs of interest are then transmitted to the predetermined node for retrieval of a web page associated with those coordinate entries or URLs. Also a directory page associated with several coordinate entries or URLs may be retrieved from the distributed network as discussed above. As previously discussed the directory page may list several web pages that are associated with at least one coordinate entry and provide links to the associated web pages. The retrieved web pages may provide location specific information or directions to specific locations of interest associated with the web pages.

The GPS receiver of the location information system is preferably a PCMCIA Pathfinder Card with associated hardware and or software manufactured by Trimble Navigation Ltd. Sunnyvale Calif. for receiving information from the GPS transmitters . This system is a fully integrated 8 channel parallel tracking PC card receiver that plugs into the computer . This system may also provide background maps on a display of the computer . The GPS receiver may also provide satellite tracking capabilities and other data collection functions.

The radio transceiver of the location information system is preferably a cellular modem radio. The radio transceiver may work with a Ricochet Wireless Network system manufactured by Metricom Inc. The Ricochet Wireless Network is a wide area wireless system using spread spectrum packet switching data technology operating in the 902 928 MHz RF spectrum. The radio transceiver may also comprise other systems such as a cellular digital packet data CDPD type radio transceiver.

The web page of has a URL of http www.vworld.com coordinates where 32.1 is a latitude coordinate 60.0 is a longitude coordinate and 0 is an altitude. In this example the web page 310 shows business data such as stock quotes inventory product information future expansion plans and other business data. The web page 310 may of course provide other information associated with a particular coordinate entry such as historical site information including local vegetation information or the like.

As shown in the location information system can access several nodes on the distributed network at different times. In preferred embodiments the distributed network includes nodes and that provide local access to the distributed network . The nodes and provide a cost effective means for a user in the local area to obtain access to the distributed network . Also in preferred embodiments the nodes and provide local access points for storing information about local points of interest. This also avoids the problem of having information dragged needlessly across the distributed network and causing congestion within the distributed network .

The nodes and provide various sources of information and are networked together so that a local node in Seattle for example may access a remote node in San Francisco. In preferred embodiments the nodes and include transceivers and respectively for receiving and transmitting data to and from each individual node and and the computer via the transceiver .

It should be appreciated that the GPS receivers need to receive signals from the GPS transmitters . Thus if the signals are blocked the GPS receiver may not be able to determine the coordinate entry. In order to avoid this problem other techniques for providing a coordinate entry may be used by the location information system . These techniques may include for example printed ID labels e.g. bar codes vericodes and other similar labels infrared beacons or RF tags .

The control routine starts at step S. At step S the GPS receiver receives signals from the GPS transmitters . Then at step S a coordinate entry associated with the GPS signal is downloaded to the computer by the GPS receiver . Next at step S the coordinate entry is transmitted to the distributed network via the transceiver .

In step S the control routine determines whether a web page associated with the transmitted coordinate entry resides on a predetermined node of the distributed network . In embodiments the predetermined node may provide the location information system a gateway to the distributed network . If the web page resides on the predetermined node the control continues to step S. However control jumps to step S if the web page does not reside on the predetermined node . In step S the web page is transmitted to the computer . Then at step S the web page is displayed on the display . Control then jumps to step S where the control routine ends at step S.

In step S the control routine determines whether a directory page associated with the coordinate entry resides on the predetermined node . If such a directory page does not reside on the predetermined node control continues to step S. Otherwise the control jumps to step S. At step S the predetermined node transmits a No Information Available or similar message to the computer . Then at step S the message is displayed on the display . The control routine then jumps to step S.

At step S the directory page is transmitted to the computer via the transceiver . Then at step S the directory page is displayed on the display . Next at step S a user links to the web page on the distributed network associated with the coordinate entry or a unique URL via the hyperlinked directory page. Again at step S the web page is transmitted to the computer via the transceiver . Then at step S the web page is displayed on the display . The control routine then continues to step S.

In alternate embodiments if the control routine determines at step S that the associated directory page resides on the predetermined node the control can instead jump to step S. At step S the directory page fetches the web page directly from a remote node of the distributed network prior to being transmitted to the computer . By using this procedure steps S S may be eliminated. In this alternate embodiment a CGI script may execute the steps necessary to determine whether the web page is on the predetermined node or a remote node of the distributed network . Accordingly the web page s are automatically retrieved from either the predetermined node or a remote node of the distributed network . The web page is transmitted to the computer via the transceiver at step S and displayed on the display at step S.

At step S the control routine determines whether a directory page associated with the URL resides on the predetermined node . If such a directory page does not reside on the predetermined node the control continues to step S. Otherwise the control jumps to step S or step S. At step S the predetermined node transmits a No Information Available or similar message to the computer . Then at step S the message is displayed on the display . The control routine then jumps to step S.

At step S the directory page is transmitted to the computer via the transceiver . Then at step S the directory page is displayed on the display . Next at step S a user links to the web page associated with the coordinate entry or a unique URL on the distributed network via the hyperlinked reference page. Again at step S the web page is transmitted to the computer via the transceiver . Then at step S the web page is displayed on the display . The control routine then continues to step S.

In alternate embodiments if the control routine determines at step S that the associated directory page resides on the predetermined node the control can instead jump to step S. At step S the directory page fetches the web page directly from a remote node of the distributed network prior to being transmitted to the computer . This again can be accomplished by using the CGI script. By using this procedure steps S S may be eliminated. In this alternate embodiment the web page is transmitted to the computer via the transceiver at step S and displayed on the display at step S. The control routine ends at step S.

In preferred embodiments the bar code labels and infrared beacons may also use the method as disclosed in . That is the bar code labels and infrared beacons may provide the location information system with signals that are converted to coordinate entries. Also the infrared beacons may be substituted with radio beacons as described above.

As shown in the location information system is preferably implemented on a programmed general purpose computer. However the location information system can also be implemented on a special purpose computer a programmed microprocessor or microcontroller and peripheral integrated circuit elements an ASIC or other integrated circuit a hardwired electronic or logic circuit such as a discrete element circuit a programmable logic device such as a PLD PLA FPGA or PAL or the like. In general any device on which a finite state machine capable of implementing the flowcharts shown in can be used to implement the location information system . Further it should be appreciated that the transceiver connecting the predetermined node and or the distributed network to the computer can be a wired link to a network not shown as well as the illustrated wireless link. The predetermined node and or the distributed network can be a local area network a wide area network an intranet the Internet or any other distributed processing and or storage network. It may also be used with protocols such as the World Wide Web or any other protocol system. It is also appreciated from the above description that the predetermined node and or distributed network can be either a local or remote node depending on a particular application.

As described above while the system and method of this invention have been described with reference to coordinate data or a specific URL the particular location can be identified by any sufficiently precise data set.

This invention has been described in detail with reference to preferred and alternate embodiments. It should be appreciated that the specific embodiments described above are merely illustrative of the principles underlying the inventive concept. It is therefore contemplated that various modifications of the disclosed embodiments will without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art.

