---

title: Method and apparatus for context-based grouping
abstract: An approach is provided for determining context-based groups based on context information. An input from a device specifying one or more criteria to determine a context-based group from among a plurality of other devices is received. The context information associated with the plurality of other devices is determined. The context-based group is determined based, at least in part, on the context information and the criteria.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09509792&OS=09509792&RS=09509792
owner: NOKIA TECHNOLOGIES OY
number: 09509792
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20100629
---
The present application is a US National Phase application of PCT Application No. PCT CN2010 074674 entitled Method and Apparatus for Context based Grouping filed on Jun. 29 2010 incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Service providers and device manufacturers e.g. wireless cellular etc. are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. One area of interest has been in the development of means for facilitating communications among an increasingly connected community of users. For example it is noted that the number and variety of available forms of communications e.g. voice calls text messaging e mails interactive chats social networking etc. has increased greatly. This increase however has also made it more difficult for users to create or otherwise manage contact groups lists etc. Accordingly service providers and device manufacturers face significant technical challenges to facilitating efficient and user friendly contact group management.

According to one embodiment a method comprises receiving an input from a device specifying one or more criteria to determine a context based group from among a plurality of other devices. The method also comprises determining context information associated with the plurality of other devices. The method further comprises determining the context based group based at least in part on the context information and the one or more criteria.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprising at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to receive an input from a device specifying one or more criteria to determine a context based group from among a plurality of other devices. The apparatus is also caused to determine context information associated with the plurality of other devices. The apparatus is further caused to determine the context based group based at least in part on the context information and the one or more criteria.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to receive an input from a device specifying one or more criteria to determine a context based group from among a plurality of other devices. The apparatus is also caused to determine context information associated with the plurality of other devices. The apparatus is further caused to determine the context based group based at least in part on the context information and the one or more criteria.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for receiving an input from a device specifying one or more criteria to determine a context based group from among a plurality of other devices. The apparatus also comprises means for determining context information associated with the plurality of other devices. The apparatus further comprises means for determining the context based group based at least in part on the context information and the one or more criteria.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for dynamically grouping users based on context are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

As noted above modern users have become accustomed to have a variety ways e.g. calls messaging chats etc. for remaining in touch with any number of communities of other users e.g. social networking communities communities of friends or coworkers etc. . This variety in turn makes it much more difficult for users to maintain current contacts contact groups or to discover new contacts because of the increased potential numbers of contacts associated with any one user. Because of the potential burden of maintaining multiple contacts or contact groups involving larger numbers of contacts users often are discouraged from creating groups or may otherwise fail to take advantage of grouping features.

To address this problem a system of introduces the capability to dynamically group users or potential contacts based on context. More specifically a user of the system can specify a search condition or criteria over context attributes of potential contacts to define a dynamic group. In one embodiment the dynamic group can be stored in a phonebook or contact list of the user s device. For example the dynamic group can be a group e.g. a context based group or a context group based on the context attributes of users. Moreover potential contacts whose current context satisfies the specified criteria associated with a context based group will automatically become a current member of the context based group. In yet another embodiment the system can update the context based group continuously e.g. in real time so that the context based group remains dynamic and up to date in the phonebook or contact list of the user s device. The user can then invoke different communication services e.g. phone calls messaging etc. over the context based group.

As shown in user equipment UEs can connect to a context processing platform via a communication network to obtain dynamic grouping services. Moreover the context processing platform can receive context information from the UEs and store the context information in a context database . The context database can include identifiers to each UE as well as associated context information. Further the context information can be any one of multiple types of information that can provide conditions that a user may use to specify for creating a context based group. For example context information may include location information camera information microphone information environmental sensor information weather information user calendar information accelerometer information compass information body temperature information etc. In one embodiment context information may be collected by individual UEs via an application e.g. a context based phonebook application a calendar application etc. . For example an application may utilize a data collection module that includes one or more sensors to obtain context information. In certain embodiments a UE can utilize sensors such as a global positioning system GPS to access GPS satellites to determine context information e.g. the location of the user . Further the application may query one or more other applications e.g. a calendar application or services not shown to retrieve context information. Each UE in the system may transmit context information associated with the user of each respective UE to the context processing platform .

An application on one of the UEs associated with a user can then utilize the information stored on the context processing platform . The application can receive an input specifying one or more criteria to determine a context based group from among a plurality of other UEs . This information can be transmitted via a communication network to the context processing platform . The context processing platform receives the input and may associate the input as a query associated with the UE . The criteria can include one or more context attributes associated with UEs along with one or more relationship parameters. In certain embodiments a context attribute is a type of user context available on a UE . Examples include location time calendar information accelerometer information compass information body temperature information outside weather information etc. Further relationships may include relationships to one or more context attributes of the UE and or fixed parameters. In one example the input can include criteria specifying that the user wishes to create a context based group of people that are within a particular distance of the user. In another example the input can include criteria specifying that the user wishes to create a context based group of people UEs that are in a particular region e.g. a particular distance from the user s home in a particular area such as a park etc. . Moreover in another example the criteria can include grouping based on whether other users are to attend the same meeting as the user of the UE

When the context processing platform receives the input the context processing platform queries the context database for context information of the people using UEs to determine the context based group. In certain embodiments the context processing platform queries every user of the context processing platform . In other embodiments the query is bounded by relationships to the user. For example the query can be limited to people that the user has as contacts on the user s UE . In another example the query can be limited based on other rules such as whether the people have something in common with the user e.g. same college same city same employer etc. . After the context processing platform retrieves the context information from the user of the UE and the other people using UEs the context processing platform determines the context based group based at least in part on the context information and the specified criteria.

The information in the context database can be continuously changing thus once the input request is received the context processing platform continuously or periodically update the context based group based on the criteria. As such the user may specify parameters for the context processing platform to update the UE of changes to the context based group. In certain embodiments the context processing platform can determine one or more updates to the context information periodically or based on changes in the context information of one or more of the users. Then the context processing platform can update the context based group based on the one or more updates.

In one example the user specifies criteria creating a context based group based on whether the contacts in the user s phonebook are at a particular region e.g. a particular park . The other users can upload location information to the context processing platform . If the context processing platform determines that the other users are within the particular park then the users can be added to the context based group. The context based group can then be sent to the UE . Further if one of the other users leaves the particular park the context based group can be updated to remove that other user from the context based group. Regions can be created by users and or be predetermined. For example the regions may be selected based on one or more maps and or one or more map databases. This information may be stored in one or more other databases associated with the context processing platform .

The user can utilize the context based groups in various applications . In one application the context based groups are utilized to dynamically sort contacts of the user or other people that may be associated with the user. In one example a person that may be associated with the user may be a person with one or more memberships to a group known to the user e.g. a biking group that likes to bike through parks of the user s city . Contacts of the user can be presented via a user interface e.g. a phonebook user interface . The user interface may be utilized to receive criteria to generate context based groups. As such the user can enter the query and a group can be formed for the query e.g. based on interaction with the context processing platform . Once a context based group is received the context based group can be presented to the user. Further the context based group may be utilized to present one or more actions to the user. These actions can include for example group interactions such as sending communications to the group chatting with the group showing the position of the members of the group on a map etc. as well as personal interactions with a member of the sorted group. Further in certain embodiments the groups may show information associated with individual members of the group. For example if the group is based on a distance from the user s UE the display of the group may include corresponding distances of the users from the UE

In one example the query can include more than one attribute and or relationship. In this example the user can search for contacts within a certain distance of a location and who is free. The attribute of free may be based on a presence status of a user e.g. set by the user . When the group is formed the user may perform a group communication. In this example the user may be expecting a delivery at home but is stuck in traffic. As such the group communication to users near the user s home can be to ask for help to receive the package.

In another example the user may insert a criterion of movie e.g. a particular movie and a relationship of recently watched. This information may be stored on a social networking site. In certain embodiments an application programming interface can be utilized by the context processing platform to retrieve context information from external platforms such as the social networking site a messaging site e.g. for presence information etc. The user may then form a group based on the criteria and context information associated with the users of the UEs . The group may be selected for an action to allow the other users to view a journal or blog the user wrote about the particular movie. In this manner the user may set access rights to content based on the context based group.

Another use for context information may be to create a carpool service. For example the user wishes to go to a particular location. The user may set a query for a group of people going to the particular location or around the particular location e.g. towards the particular location and is nearby the user currently. If there are group members the user may contact the group members and request a ride.

In one embodiment the context processing platform can host a service and or provide information to a service to provide real time opportunities to services for users. A user can generate a query for a service based on criteria and send the criteria to the context processing platform . The context processing platform can then determine a group based on the criteria. The user may be provided an opportunity to manually filter one or more of the users of the group. Then the user can select one or more members of the group to perform a transaction. The members of the group can be ranked according to how well the user meets the criteria. For example if nearby home is the criteria the users closest to home can be ranked first.

In certain embodiments the service can have access to the context based group and the context based group can be invited to join in the service. As such the other users may leave the context based group upon request. Further the context based group can be automatically updated when context information of UEs associated with the other users changes. Further messages e.g. text audio video etc. can be sent by the user to the other users e.g. as a group .

Users may have the ability to specify whether or not the user would like to be invited to groups of one or more services e.g. via one or more subscriptions . As such a potential group member can specify whether the user would like to be a part of a group created by a particular user and or events at particular locations etc. Further under certain circumstances the users can set privacy parameters. For example users can specify to be invisible so that the user can receive communications associated with the context based group but other members of the context based group are not aware that the user is present. At times the initiating UE e.g. UE can select privacy parameters e.g. by selecting that members cannot be invisible .

Additionally with respect to privacy the context processing platform can limit certain context information based on user profiles. As such the users may determine what information the user wishes to share with whom for example by only allowing people with particular information e.g. know the user s phone number and name is a contact of the user etc. about the user to access the context information. Additionally different context attributes can be set to different privacy parameters. For example a location of the user can only be seen by contacts labelled as friends corporate calendar information can only be viewed by contacts labelled as colleagues chatting is only available to contacts etc.

By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network not shown a wireless network not shown a telephony network not shown or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LIE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

The UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer notebook computer netbook computer tablet computer Personal Digital Assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof including the accessories and peripherals of these devices or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

By way of example the UEs and context processing platform communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application headers layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

In one embodiment the context processing platform may interact according to a client server model with the applications of the UE . According to the client server model a client process sends a message including a request to a server process and the server process responds by providing a service e.g. context based grouping social networking etc. . The server process may also return a message with a response to the client process. Often the client process and server process execute on different computer devices called hosts and communicate via a network using one or more protocols for network communications. The term server is conventionally used to refer to the process that provides the service or the host computer on which the process operates. Similarly the term client is conventionally used to refer to the process that makes the request or the host computer on which the process operates. As used herein the terms client and server refer to the processes rather than the host computers unless otherwise clear from the context. In addition the process performed by a server can be broken up to run as multiple processes on multiple hosts sometimes called tiers for reasons that include reliability scalability and redundancy among others.

The location module can determine a user s location. The user s location can be determined by a triangulation system such as GPS assisted GPS A GPS Cell of Origin or other location extrapolation technologies. Standard GPS and A GPS systems can use satellites to pinpoint the location of a UE . A Cell of Origin system can be used to determine the cellular tower that a cellular UE is synchronized with. This information provides a coarse location of the UE because the cellular tower can have a unique cellular identifier cell ID that can be geographically mapped. The location module may also utilize multiple technologies to detect the location of the UE . Location coordinates e.g. GPS coordinates can give finer detail as to the location of the UE when media is captured. In one embodiment GPS coordinates are stored as context information in the memory and are transmitted to the context processing platform via the communication interface. Moreover in certain embodiments the GPS coordinates can include an altitude to provide a height. In other embodiments the altitude can be determined using another type of altimeter. In certain embodiments the location module can be a means for determining a location of the UE an image or used to associate an object in view with a location.

The magnetometer module can be used in finding horizontal orientation of the UE . A magnetometer is an instrument that can measure the strength and or direction of a magnetic field. Using the same approach as a compass the magnetometer is capable of determining the direction of a UE using the magnetic field of the Earth. The front of a media capture device e.g. a camera can be marked as a reference point in determining direction. Thus if the magnetic field points north compared to the reference point the angle the UE reference point is from the magnetic field is known. Simple calculations can be made to determine the direction of the UE . In one embodiment horizontal directional data obtained from a magnetometer can be stored in memory and or transmitted via the communication interface to the context processing platform .

The accelerometer module can be used to determine vertical orientation of the UE . An accelerometer is an instrument that can measure acceleration. Using a three axis accelerometer with axes X Y and Z provides the acceleration in three directions with known angles. Once again the front of a media capture device can be marked as a reference point in determining direction. Because the acceleration due to gravity is known when a UE is stationary the accelerometer module can determine the angle the UE is pointed as compared to Earth s gravity. In one embodiment vertical directional data obtained from an accelerometer is embedded into the metadata of captured or streaming media or otherwise associated with the UE by the location services application . In certain embodiments the magnetometer module and accelerometer module can be means for ascertaining a perspective of a user. This perspective information may be stored in the memory and sent to the context processing platform .

Moreover the environmental sensor module can determine atmospheric conditions surrounding the UE . Such atmospheric conditions may include humidity temperature body temperature of the user other biometric data of the user etc. Once again this information can be stored in the memory and sent to the context processing platform . In certain embodiments information collected from the data collection module can be retrieved by the runtime module and stored in memory . Then periodically the information can be transmitted to the context processing platform .

In one embodiment the communication interface can be used to communicate with the context processing platform or other UEs . Certain communications can be via methods such as an internet protocol messaging e.g. SMS MMS etc. or any other communication method e.g. via the communication network . In some examples the UE can send context information associated with the UE to the context processing platform . In other examples the user can utilize a user interface to generate a query for context based groups to send to the context processing platform . Further the communication interface can be utilized to communicate with other UEs .

The user interface can include various methods of communication. For example the user interface can have outputs including a visual component e.g. a screen an audio component a physical component e.g. vibrations and other methods of communication. User inputs can include a touch screen interface a scroll and click interface a button interface a microphone etc. Input can be via one or more methods such as voice input textual input typed input typed touch screen input other touch enabled input etc. In certain embodiments the user interface and or runtime module can be means for causing presentation of context based grouping queries and results. Example user interfaces of such grouping queries results and actions performed as part of the results are shown in .

The context processing module may be utilized in determining context information from the data collection module and or applications executing on the runtime module . This information may be caused to be transmitted via the communication interface to the context processing platform . The context processing module may additionally be utilized as a means for determining groups based on input criteria and received context information associated with other UEs .

In step the context processing platform determines to receive an input from a UE specifying one or more criteria to determine a context based group from among a plurality of other UEs . The input can be received from the UE which would like to create the context based group for use with the user s UE . The input may be specified as further described in . In certain embodiments the UE receives the input from a user interface. Further the criteria can be specified in relation to context information associated with the UE

At step the context processing platform determines context information associated with the plurality of other UEs . As previously noted the context processing platform receives updates of context information from the other UEs as well as the UE . The context information e.g. location calendar information sensor information etc. can be collected at each of the UEs and be transmitted to the context processing platform . The other UEs can be selected in various manners. In one embodiment the other UEs can be contacts in a phonebook associated with the UE . In another embodiment the other UEs can be otherwise associated with the UE e.g. a member of the same group or be part of a public community. For example the UEs can be part of a real time opportunistic community designed to share context information to provide users with the ability to contact each other. A real time opportunistic community can refer to a group of people constituted dynamically i.e. members of the group can change at any time and have context attributes e.g. volatile attributes that match conditions specified by the criteria.

The context processing platform determines the context based group based at least in part on the context information and the one or more criteria step . For example if the input specifies criteria that specifies a request for a group of contacts within a certain distance of a particular location e.g. the dynamic location of the UE the context processing platform can parse the context information associated with each of the other UEs determine location coordinates and determine whether each of the other UEs meets the criteria. In certain embodiments the context based group can be determined at the UE based on context information provided to the UE . Each of the other UEs that meets the criteria based on the context information associated with the respective other UEs is then caused to be associated with a group. This group can then be caused to be sent to the UE . Further the group can be saved and or monitored by the context processing platform .

Then the context processing platform determines updates to the context information. At step the updates to the context information can be utilized to update the context based group. These updates can be in real time or substantially in real time. For example the context processing platform can monitor context information associated with the other UEs as well as the context information associated with the UE to determine updates to the context based group based on the criteria and updated context information. The updated context based group can then be caused at least in part to be transmitted to the UE

In step the application of a UE receives input specifying one or more criteria to determine a context based group from among a plurality of other UEs . The application can receive the input from a user interface . Example user interfaces used to specify criteria are provided in . As previously noted the criteria can include for example one or more context attributes of the user e.g. a location of the user a calendar entry of the user a weather status associated with the user a direction the user is facing etc. the UE or a fixed attribute along with one or more relationship parameters.

Then at step the application causes at least in part transmission of the criteria to the context processing platform . The criteria can be sent as a query requesting a group to be formed based on the criteria and context information associated with one or more other UEs . The context processing platform can process the criteria and or context information according to various processes e.g. the processes of or . In response to the query the application receives a context based group based on the one or more criteria and context information associated with the UEs from the context processing platform step . In certain embodiments the UE receives the context information e.g. from the context processing platform and or the other UEs and determines the context based group.

Once the context based group is received the context based group can be caused to be presented on a user interface . The user interface can additionally provide an option to save the context based group. When the context based group is saved a request is sent to the context processing platform to monitor the context information of the other UEs to determine and update the context based group. The application can receive an input associated with the selecting a context based group being presented. The selection of the group can cause the application to determine one or more actions available at the device relevant to the context based group step . Relevancy can be determined based on the criteria chosen. For example a map option can be available if a location is used in the criteria. In another example a calendar option can be available if scheduling is utilized in the criteria. In yet another example communications to the group and or members of the group can be initiated. Other corresponding applications and or options can be provided for various types of criteria. Then the application can determine to present a user interface for initiating at least one of the one or more of the actions step . These actions can be selected e.g. via a touch screen interface a scroll and click interface etc. . Once selected the actions can be executed by the application and or another application on the UE

Further as noted above a particular UE can receive input to generate a context based group. A query to the context processing platform can be generated based on the input. Then at step the search request for generating a context based group can be transmitted to a search Application Programming Interface API of the context processing platform . The request can be in the form of one or more keywords and or a structured query e.g. a search based on one or more static options . If the request is a keyword request the keyword request can be sent to a query parser at step . The query parser then determines a structured query from the keywords. In certain embodiments the structured query can include one or more context attributes and one or more relationships. For example a context attribute can be a location of the UEs and the relationship can be whether the UEs are within a bounded area a region a certain distance from the querying UE etc.

The structured query can be sent to a context query processing engine at step . The context query processing engine can determine one or more UEs to target based on the query. For example the query may indicate a base set of UEs to search e.g. contacts of the querying UE all possible UEs available etc. . The context database is then queried for historical context data of the users who match the base set of UEs to search utilizing the user profiles e.g. names ages interests working companies etc. for query optimization and result filtering. The user profiles can be received by the context query processing engine via an access controller . A group meeting the criteria based on the context information associated with the user profiles can then be generated. A group management module can then be utilized to monitor and update the generated group step . The group management module can send the resulting context based group and or any updates of the context based group to the search API to return to the querying UE . In certain embodiments the updates are in the form of adding and or deleting of members of the group. Further user profile information for one or more members of the group can be sent to the querying UE . This can allow for the querying UE performing one or more actions associated with the context based group based on collected context information.

In certain embodiments the querying process can be mapped to a people search over a traditional database e.g. a relational database with a Structured Query Language SQL interface . Search parameters from keywords can be converted into the parameters in a pre defined SQL query template. Further the user profiles utilized in the query may be filtered for example based on one or more parameters e.g. based on whether the users are contacts of the querying user whether the users are a member of a particular static group etc. .

In one example a structured query can be generated based on a context attribute of location and a relationship as in a particular park. When a context based group is formed the user is able to contact each of his friends in the particular park to perform a group communication. Additionally or alternatively structured queries can be formed using keywords as further described in .

As shown in the user interface can include a keyword input field including the criteria of Nearby and the parameter of 500 m. In this scenario the user s position context information can be automatically used as base parameter for a relationship between the user and the users of other UEs . As such contacts that are nearby the user with a distance of no more than 500 meters can be placed in the context based group . The criteria can be sent to a context processing platform for processing to generate the group . Then the UE receives the group from the context processing platform . In other scenarios the UE can receive context information associated with the other users to determine the group . The context based group can then be saved. When saved the context based group can change based on updated context information associated with the other users.

With the above approaches a user can conveniently generate dynamic groups of contacts or other users based on criteria and context information. Processing at a context processing platform can provide the UE with savings of processing as well as increased battery life while allowing the UE to receive context based group information. Further real time updates of context information allows for the context processing platform to update context based groups in a manner such that the context based groups generated can change on a regular basis.

The processes described herein for providing dynamic grouping of users based on context may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein including for providing user interface navigation information associated with the availability of services may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to dynamic grouping of users based on context. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for dynamic grouping of users based on context. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for dynamic grouping of users based on context is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD or plasma screen or printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball or cursor direction keys or motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of application specific ICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for communication with the UE .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infrared carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to dynamically group of users based on context. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of dynamically grouping of users based on context. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as global evolution EDGE general packet radio service CPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairment that occurs during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU not shown .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to dynamically group users based on context. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

