---

title: Frequency of geographic location updates for an electronic device based on user communication
abstract: A method, computer program product, and system are provided to update geographic location information for an electronic device. The method can include transmitting the geographic location information for the electronic device to a server device at a first time interval. A determination can be made regarding whether the electronic device is in communication with a third-party device. If the electronic device is in communication with the third-party device, then updated geographic location information for the electronic device is transmitted to the server device at a second time interval, where the second time interval is shorter than the first time interval.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08249621&OS=08249621&RS=08249621
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08249621
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101021
---
Many electronic devices include location based service LBS applications which allow a geographic location of the electronic device to be either displayed on the device or transmitted to a server device for access by another electronic device e.g. third party device . LBS applications can be used to identify and track the geographic location of electronic device users. For instance LBS applications can enable the electronic device user to initiate a location request for the user s current geographic location in which the electronic device serves as a Global Positioning System GPS terminal. The location of the electronic device user can also be determined based on for example Wi Fi and Cell ID location methods. Also LBS applications can transmit geographic location information for the electronic device to a server device allowing a user of a third party device to access and view the location of the electronic device user. The electronic device user can manually control the accuracy and details of the geographic location information viewed by third parties.

Various methods and techniques can be used to assess the geographic location of the electronic device user. For instance a mobile phone with an embedded GPS can send position coordinates to a mobile network server such that other users of the mobile network server can view the geographic location of the mobile phone. In battery operated electronic devices e.g. mobile phones personal digital assistants and laptops embedded hardware and software associated with LBS applications can consume a significant portion of the device s computing and battery resources. Moreover as the frequency of location updates sent from the battery operated electronic device to a centralized network server increases the embedded hardware and software associated with LBS applications process the location updates more frequently thus limiting computation and battery resources for other applications on the electronic device.

Methods and systems are needed to provide geographic location information for an electronic device while conserving battery and computation resources of the electronic device.

Embodiments include a method of providing geographic location information for an electronic device. The method includes transmitting the geographic location information for the electronic device to a server device at a first time interval. A determination is made regarding whether the electronic device is in communication with a third party device. The communication link between the electronic device and the third party can include for example and without limitation a voice communication a text message and an email communication between the electronic device and the third party device. If the electronic device is in communication with the third party device then updated geographic location information for the electronic device is transmitted to the server device at a second time interval where the second time interval is shorter than the first time interval. The second time interval can be based on a rate of change in GPS location of the electronic device over time.

Embodiments additionally include a computer program product that includes a computer usable medium with computer program logic recorded thereon that when executed by one or more processors provides geographic location information for an electronic device. The computer program logic includes the following first computer readable program code that enables a processor to transmit geographic location information for the electronic device to a server device at a first time interval second computer readable program code that enables a processor to determine whether the electronic device is in communication with a third party device and third computer readable program code that enables a processor to transmit updated geographic location information for the electronic device to the server device at a second time interval when the electronic device is in communication with the third party device where the second time interval is shorter than the first time interval.

Embodiments further include a system for providing geographic location information for an electronic device. The system includes a Global Positioning System GPS a transceiver device and a computing device. The GPS is configured to calculate the geographic location information for the electronic device. The transceiver device is configured to transmit the geographic location information to a server device at a first time interval. The computing device is configured to perform the following functions determine whether the electronic device is in communication with a third party device and transmit via the transceiver device updated geographic location information for the electronic device to the server device at a second time interval when the electronic device is in communication with the third party device where the second time interval is shorter than the first time interval. The computing device can include one or more processors.

Further features and advantages described herein as well as the structure and operation of various embodiments are described in detail below with reference to the accompanying drawings. It is noted that the following description is not limited to the specific embodiments described herein. Such embodiments are presented herein for illustrative purposes only. Additional embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art based on the teachings contained herein.

The following detailed description refers to the accompanying drawings that illustrate exemplary embodiments. Other embodiments are possible and modifications can be made to the embodiments within the spirit and scope of the detailed description.

It would be apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art that the embodiments as described below can be implemented in many different embodiments of software hardware firmware and or the entities illustrated in the figures. Any actual software code with the specialized control of hardware to implement embodiments is not limiting of the detailed description. Thus the operational behavior of embodiments will be described with the understanding that modifications and variations of the embodiments described below are possible given the level of detail presented herein.

Client devices can be for example and without limitation mobile phones personal digital assistants PDAs laptops or other similar types of electronic devices or a combination thereof.

Server device can be for example and without limitation a telecommunication server a web server or other similar types of database servers. In an embodiment server device can have multiple processors and multiple shared or separate memory components such as for example and without limitation one or more computing devices incorporated in a clustered computing environment or server farm. The computing process performed by the clustered computing environment or server farm can be carried out across multiple processors located at the same or different locations. In an embodiment server device can be implemented on a single computing device. Examples of computing devices include but are not limited to a central processing unit an application specific integrated circuit or other types of computing devices having at least one processor and memory.

Further network can be for example and without limitation a wired e.g. ethernet or a wireless e.g. Wi Fi and 3G network that communicatively couples client devices to server device .

In an embodiment communication system can be a mobile telecommunication system e.g. 3G and 4G mobile telecommunication systems in which mobile devices e.g. client devices of can communicate with one another e.g. via speech and data services with the use of a mobile telecommunication network e.g. network of and a mobile network server e.g. server device of .

Mobile device is also equipped with GPS which can calculate a geographic location e.g. latitude and longitude coordinates of mobile device and then send the geographic location information to the mobile network server e.g. server device of for access by a third party device according to an embodiment. GPS technology and associated methods to calculate and transmit GPS based geographic location information from mobile device to the mobile network server are known to persons skilled in the relevant art.

As described herein the term third party device refers to an electronic device other than mobile device of or a software application e.g. LBS application loaded on an electronic device other than mobile device . For ease of explanation the third party device described in the embodiment herein refers to an electronic device other than mobile device . The third party device can include for example and without limitation a laptop a personal digital assistant a desktop computer and other similar types of electronic devices. However based on the description herein a person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that the embodiments described herein are equally applicable to a software application loaded on an electronic device other than mobile device and equivalents thereof.

In another embodiment the geographic location of the mobile device can be calculated based on a signal strength of a roaming signal transmitted from roaming signal generator to a nearby antenna e.g. a mobile base station in the mobile telecommunication system. A rough estimation of the mobile device s geographic location can be based on the location of the nearby antenna that receives the strongest signal from roaming signal generator e.g. cell identification or cell of origin according to an embodiment. That is the geographic location of mobile device can be determined based on a predetermined radial distance from the nearby antenna. In an embodiment an accurate estimation of the geographic location of mobile device can be determined using a triangulation method based on the strength of the signal emitted from roaming signal generator with respect to a plurality of surrounding antennas. Triangulation methods and techniques to determine a geographic location of mobile device based on the signal strength of the mobile device s roaming signal are known to persons skilled in the relevant art. The rough estimation and or the accurate estimation of the mobile device s geographic location can be stored on the mobile network server e.g. server device of for access by a third party device according to an embodiment.

In yet another embodiment the geographic location information for mobile device can be calculated based on a combination of GPS information from mobile device e.g. via GPS and location information determined from the mobile telecommunication system e.g. location of nearby antenna towers and triangulation methods . For instance an Assisted GPS A GPS technique can be used to calculate the geographic location information for mobile device based on location information from GPS and location information based on the strength of a signal emitted from roaming signal generator . A GPS techniques are known to persons skilled in the relevant art. In an embodiment the geographic location information derived from the combination of GPS and roaming signal generator can be stored on the mobile network server e.g. server device of for access by a third party device.

In an embodiment after the geographic location information for mobile device is stored on the mobile network server a third party device e.g. an electronic device other than mobile device can access the geographic location information for mobile device from the mobile network server. The third party device can access the geographic location information for mobile device by transmitting a location request to the mobile network server according to an embodiment. For instance mobile device and the third party device can both have a LBS application loaded thereon in which the LBS application for each respective electronic device allows mobile device and the third party device to track the geographic location of one another. In particular the third party device can calculate its geographic location using for example and without limitation one of the geographic location methods described above with respect to the mobile device . The geographic location information for the third party device can also be stored on the mobile network server for access by other electronic devices such as for example and without limitation mobile device .

With respect to in another embodiment communication system can be an internet communication system in which computing devices e.g. client devices of can communicate with one another e.g. via voice over internet protocol VoIP and data services with the use of an internet network e.g. network of and an internet network server e.g. server device of . The computing devices can include for example and without limitation mobile phones personal digital assistants laptops and other similar types of computing devices. In an embodiment the computing devices can each be equipped with a GPS which can calculate a geographic location e.g. latitude and longitude coordinates of the computing device and then send the geographic location information to the internet network server for access by a third party device according to an embodiment.

When the computing device is unable calculate its geographic location via GPS other geographic location indicators can be used to determine the geographic location of the computing device according to an embodiment. For example the computing device can be connected to the internet network and assigned an Internet Protocol IP address. As would be understood by persons skilled in the relevant art the computing device s IP address can be used to calculate geographic location information for the computing device. In an embodiment the geographic location information for the computing device can be stored on the internet network server for access by a third party device.

In an embodiment after the geographic location of the computing device is stored on the internet network server the third party device e.g. an electronic device other than the computing device can access the geographic location information for the computing device. The third party device can access the geographic location information for the computing device by transmitting a location request to the internet network server according to an embodiment. For instance the computing device and the third party device can both have a LBS application loaded thereon in which the LBS application for each respective electronic device allows the computing device and the third party device to track the geographic location of one another. In particular the third party device can calculate its geographic location using for example and without limitation its IP address. The geographic location information for the third party device can also be stored on the internet network server for access by other electronic devices such as for example and without limitation the computing device.

Based on the description herein a person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that other communication systems and associated electronic devices can be used with the embodiments described herein. These other communication systems and associated electronic devices are within the scope and spirit of the embodiments described herein.

In an embodiment method can be performed in conjunction with an LBS application loaded on a mobile phone. For ease of explanation it is assumed that the LBS application can allow other electronic devices also referred to herein as third party devices to access and view geographic location information for the mobile phone as well as allow the mobile phone to access and view geographic location information for the third party device.

For instance the mobile phone can have an LBS application that controls the mobile phone to transmit geographic location information for the mobile phone to the mobile network server on a periodic basis in order provide up to date location information for access by third party devices e.g. other mobile phones . The third party device can access and view geographic location information for the mobile phone by retrieving the geographic location information from the mobile network server via the mobile telecommunication network. Conversely the mobile phone can also access and view geographic location information for the third party device where the third party device transmits its geographic location information to the mobile network server in a similar manner as the mobile phone. In an embodiment the LBS application on the mobile phone can allow the mobile phone to transmit its geographic location information to the mobile network server for access by the third party device but the LBS application on the third party device can prevent the mobile phone from accessing geographic location information for the third party device via the mobile network server. Based on the description herein a person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that various permission controls can be set in the LBS applications on the mobile phone and the third party device to allow or prevent access to geographic location information of each of the respective electronic devices.

A tradeoff among others exists between the frequency at which the mobile phone transmits its geographic location information to the mobile network server and a benefit that a user of the third party device receives in accessing and viewing up to date location information. In particular an increase in frequency of the mobile phone s transmission of geographic location information to the mobile network server can lead to an improved user experience for the third party device user and or the mobile phone user in the ability to receive and or transmit up to date geographic location information. However as the frequency in transmission of geographic location information increases the mobile phone s battery resources decrease and the computing resources for other applications on the mobile phone decrease as well. Among other things method addresses this tradeoff between user experience and consumption of the mobile phone s battery and computation resources.

A benefit of method among others is that geographic location updates are provided by the mobile phone to the mobile network server during a time period that is beneficial to both the mobile phone and third party device users. In particular while the mobile phone is in communication with the third party device e.g. via voice email and text messaging communication the mobile phone and or the third party device can transmit their respective geographic location information to the mobile network server. In turn the mobile phone and or the third party device can retrieve up to date geographic location information for the other electronic device. This up to date location information for the mobile phone and or the third party device leads to an improved user experience in LBS applications as well as conserves battery and computation resources of the electronic devices. In essence method provides up to date geographic location information to the mobile network server when the mobile phone is in communication with the third party device.

As referred to herein the term communication refers to a transfer of information from one entity e.g. the mobile phone to another entity e.g. the third party device . For exemplary purposes the communication between the mobile phone and the third party device of method will be described in the context of electronic data transfer between the mobile phone and the third party device. The communication includes for example and without limitation voice email and text messaging communication. Based on the description herein a person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that other forms of communication are equally applicable to the embodiments described herein.

In reference to step of the mobile phone transmits its geographic location information to the mobile network server at a first time interval. In addition the mobile phone can access the mobile network server during the first time interval in order to receive geographic location information for the third party device according to an embodiment.

In an embodiment the time period associated with first time interval in step is specific to the implementation of the mobile phone and the LBS application loaded thereon. For example the LBS application may refresh the geographic location of the mobile phone e.g. transmission of geographic location information for the mobile phone to the mobile network server more frequently when the mobile phone is plugged into an external energy source e.g. wall outlet than when the mobile phone operates on its own battery resources. In another example the LBS application may refresh the geographic location information for the mobile phone when the phone is inactive e.g. no applications or programs being executed on the mobile phone for a predetermined period of time. In yet another example the LBS application may refresh the geographic location information for the mobile phone based on a user preference setting e.g. every 2 5 or 10 minutes . Based on the description herein a person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that the refresh policy for the mobile phone and the LBS application loaded thereon can be based on additional factors.

In an embodiment the LBS application may refresh the geographic location information for the mobile phone based on a dynamic time interval. The dynamic time interval can be based on an algorithm that accounts for various factors such as for example and without limitation travel behavior data of the mobile phone and energy consumption of the mobile phone s battery resources.

In an embodiment the mobile phone can transmit GPS location information to the mobile network server e.g. as described above with respect to mobile device of . The geographic location of the mobile phone can also be estimated based on a signal strength of a roaming signal transmitted from the roaming signal generator of the mobile phone to a nearby antenna according to an embodiment. In yet another embodiment A GPS techniques can be used to calculate the geographic location information for the mobile phone e.g. as described above with respect to mobile device of .

The geographic location information for the mobile phone can include information relating to latitude longitude coordinates a street location a city location a state location and a country location for the mobile phone according to an embodiment. In an embodiment the mobile phone can transmit both rough geographic location information e.g. city location state location and country location of the mobile phone and accurate geographic location information to the mobile network server e.g. latitude longitude coordinates of the mobile phone .

In another embodiment the mobile phone can transmit either accurate or rough geographic location information to the mobile network server. In an embodiment if the mobile phone and the third party device are located more than a predetermined distance from one another then the mobile phone transmits rough geographic location information to the mobile network server. For instance if the mobile device and the third party device are located in different cities states or countries then the mobile phone user may not prefer to transmit accurate geographic location information e.g. latitude longitude coordinates and or a street location of the mobile phone to the mobile network server because costs associated with battery and computation resources to transmit the accurate geographic location information to the mobile network server may outweigh the usefulness of the information to the user of the third party device. Rather the mobile phone can transmit a roaming signal via its roaming signal generator and allow the mobile telecommunication network to identify a location of the mobile phone based on a reception of the roaming signal by nearby antennas see e.g. description of roaming signal generator of . In turn the battery and computing resources of the mobile phone can be conserved.

In reference to step of a determination is made regarding whether the mobile phone is in communication with a third party device. A communication link can be formed between the mobile phone and the third party device in a variety of ways such as for example and without limitation voice communication text messaging and email communication. In an embodiment the communication link can be formed via one mode of communication or a plurality of modes of communication. For instance the communication link can be formed between the mobile phone and the third party device via voice communication text messaging or email communication. Alternatively the communication link can be formed via voice communication and text communication in which the use of both modes of communication by the mobile phone and or the third party device overlaps one another. Based on the description herein a person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that communication links based on other combinations of modes of communication can be established between the mobile phone and the third party device.

In an embodiment the mobile phone and the third party device each have a LBS application loaded thereon in which the LBS application includes an application programming interface API to allow the mobile phone and the third party device to interact with communication applications loaded thereon. These communication applications include applications associated with for example and without limitation voice communication text messaging and email. Based on the LBS API s interaction with the communication applications the determination can be made in step regarding whether the mobile phone is in communication with the third party device as would be understood by a person skilled in the relevant art.

Based on the description herein a person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that other methods and techniques can be used to determine whether the mobile phone is in communication with the third party device. For instance a mobile network server e.g. server device of can monitor whether a communication link is established between the mobile phone and the third party device. These other methods and techniques are within the scope and spirit of the embodiments described herein.

In step if the mobile phone is in communication with the third party device then updated geographic location information for the mobile phone is transmitted to the mobile network server at a second time interval. In an embodiment the communication link between the mobile phone and third party device is an indication to the LBS application loaded on the mobile phone that the third party device may seek up to date geographic location information for the mobile phone. In turn during the communication between the mobile phone and the third party device the mobile phone transmits its geographic location information e.g. GPS latitude and longitude coordinates to the mobile network server such that a user of the third party device can access and view up to date information for the mobile phone.

In an embodiment the second time interval associated with step is shorter than the first time interval associated with step . This is because since the mobile phone is in communication with the third party device the third party device may seek more frequent updates on the geographic location of the mobile phone than when the mobile phone and third party device are not in communication with one another. In an embodiment the second time interval can be based on a user preference setting e.g. 0.5 1.0 and 1.5 minutes .

In another embodiment the second time interval can adaptively change based on a geographic location of the mobile phone over time. In particular the time period associated with the second time interval can decrease or increase depending on whether the geographic location of the mobile phone changes over a predetermined number of time intervals. For instance the second time interval can be set to 30 seconds where the mobile phone transmits its geographic location information to the mobile network server every 30 seconds while the mobile phone is in communication with the third party device. If the geographic location of the mobile phone changes over a time period of two minutes e.g. over four time intervals then the time period associated with the second time interval can decrease to for example 20 seconds. On the other hand if the geographic location of the mobile phone does not change over a time period of two minutes then the time period associated with the second time interval can increase to for example 40 seconds. A goal of adaptively changing the second time interval among others is to provide the third party access to up to date geographic location information for the mobile phone while reducing battery and computing resources of the mobile phone when the geographic location of the mobile phone does not change over a predetermined amount of time.

An advantage among others of transmission of the geographic location information for the mobile phone to the mobile network server during an established communication link between the mobile phone and the third party device is that the geographic location transmission can leverage resources of the mobile phone used for the communication between the two electronic devices. In an embodiment a transceiver device e.g. transceiver device of and a computing device e.g. computing device of of the mobile phone may be used when the mobile phone is in communication with the third party device. For example and without limitation the transceiver device can be used to receive voice data from the mobile network server when the mobile phone is in communication with the third party device. The computing device can be used to control the transmission and reception of the voice data via the transceiver device.

In an embodiment the GPS of the mobile phone e.g. GPS of can calculate a geographic location of the mobile phone and in turn the computing device can transmit the geographic location information via the transceiver device to the mobile network server while the mobile phone is in communication with the third party device. As a result up to date geographic location information for the mobile phone is available on the mobile network server for access by the third party device. The transmission of the geographic location information from the mobile phone to the mobile network server leverages resources of the mobile phone already in use for communication for example the computing device and the transceiver device of the mobile phone. In turn the battery resources of the mobile phone are not depleted at the same rate as compared to the battery resources expended if the voice communication and the geographic location update to the mobile network server are two separate and independent communications. Thus a benefit of method among others is the transmission of geographic location information to the mobile network server during a communication link between the mobile phone and third party device thus reducing battery consumption due to the execution of the LBS application on the mobile phone.

Another benefit of method among others is that the communication between the mobile phone and the third party device not only forms a communication link between the users of the mobile phone and third party device e.g. via voice communication text messaging and email communication but also provides the third party device up to date geographic location information for the mobile phone. In turn the up to date geographic location information can lead to an improved user experience for the user of the third party device for a variety of reasons such as for example and without limitation the user of the third party device can assess the proximity of the mobile phone user and adjust his her geographic location accordingly in order to be closer to or farther away from the mobile phone user. Based on the description herein a person skilled in the relevant art will recognize other benefits in the access and review of up to date geographic location information.

In another embodiment of method method can include only steps and i.e. step is not performed . In effect the mobile phone transmits its geographic location information to the mobile network server only when the mobile phone is in communication with the third party device see steps and according to an embodiment. In limiting the transmission of the mobile phone s geographic location information to time periods when the mobile phone is in communication with the third party device battery and computation resources of the mobile phone can be conserved.

The description of method is similar to that of method of . In particular method is described from the perspective of the third party device in which the third party device accesses geographic location information that has been transmitted from the mobile phone to the mobile network server.

In reference to step of the third party device receives from the mobile network server geographic location information for the mobile phone at a first time interval. The first time interval associated with step can be determined in a similar manner as the first time interval associated with step of described above .

In step a determination is made regarding whether the third party device is in communication with the mobile phone. A communication link can be formed between the third party device and the mobile phone in a variety of ways such as for example and without limitation voice communication text messaging and email communication.

In step if the third party device is in communication with the mobile phone then the third party device receives from the mobile network server updated geographic location information for the mobile phone at a second time interval. In an embodiment the second time interval is shorter than the first time interval. The second time interval associated with step can be determined in a similar manner as the second time interval associated with step of described above .

The description of method is similar to that of methods and of respectively. In particular method is described from the perspective of the server device e.g. server device in which the server device receives geographic location information of the mobile phone and transmits the information to the third party device. Conversely the server device can also receive geographic location information of the third party device and transmit the information to the mobile phone.

In reference to step of server device receives geographic location information from the client device at a first time interval. The first time interval associated with step can be determined in a similar manner as the first time interval associated with step of described above . In an embodiment server device operates with the client device in a pull implementation in which server device requests the geographic location data from the client device at the first time interval. In addition with the pull implementation server device also communicates with the client device to modify the first time interval.

In step after server device receives the geographic location information of the client device server device transmits the location information to the third party device at a second time interval. In an embodiment the second time interval can be substantially the same as longer than or shorter than the first time interval of step . The second time interval can depend on a control setting in an LBS application on the third party device which determines the frequency at which the third party device receives the geographic location information of the mobile phone according to an embodiment.

In step a determination is made regarding whether the mobile phone and the third party device are in communication with one another. A communication link can be formed between the mobile phone and the third party device in a variety of ways such as for example and without limitation voice communication text messaging and email communication. Since the communication link is formed over communication system communication system can provide an indication to server device that the communication link exists between the electronic devices according to an embodiment.

With respect to step of if the mobile phone and the third party device are in communication with one another server device receives updated geographic location information for the mobile phone at a third time interval. In an embodiment the third time interval is shorter than the first and second time intervals of steps and respectively. The third time interval associated with step can be determined in a similar manner as the second time interval associated with step of described above .

In step if the mobile phone and the third party device are in communication with one another server device transmits the updated geographic location information from step to the third party device at a fourth time interval. In an embodiment the fourth time interval can be substantially the same as longer than or shorter than the third time interval. However in an embodiment the fourth time interval is shorter than the first and second time intervals of steps and respectively. The fourth time interval can depend on a control setting in an LBS application on the third party device which determines the frequency at which the third party device receives the updated geographic location information of the mobile phone according to an embodiment.

Based on the description herein a person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that although the embodiments described above refer to a communication link between two electronic devices e.g. a mobile phone and a third party device the embodiments described above herein are equally applicable to a communication link between two or more electronic devices. For instance two or more electronic devices e.g. client devices of can establish a communication link with one another via for example and without limitation an on line group chat application. During this exemplary communication link the two or more electronic devices can transmit each of their respective geographic location information to a server device e.g. using method of in which each of the electronic devices can also receive geographic location information for another electronic device by accessing the server device e.g. using method of .

Various aspects of the embodiments described herein may be implemented in software firmware hardware or a combination thereof. is an illustration of another example computer system in which embodiments described herein or portions thereof can be implemented as computer readable code. For example the methods illustrated by flowchart of flowchart of and flowchart of can be implemented in computer system . Various embodiments are described in terms of this example computer system . After reading this description it will become apparent to a person skilled in the relevant art how to implement embodiments described herein using other computer systems and or computer architectures.

Computer system can be any commercially available and well known computer capable of performing the functions described herein such as computers available from International Business Machines Apple Sun HP Dell Compaq Cray etc.

Computer system includes one or more processors such as processor . Processor may be a special purpose or a general purpose processor. Processor is connected to a communication infrastructure e.g. a bus or network .

Computer system also includes a main memory preferably random access memory RAM and may also include a secondary memory . Main memory has stored therein a control logic computer software and data. Secondary memory can include for example a hard disk drive a removable storage drive and or a memory stick. Removable storage drive can comprise a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive an optical disk drive a flash memory or the like. The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage unit in a well known manner. Removable storage unit can include a floppy disk magnetic tape optical disk etc. which is read by and written to by removable storage drive . As will be appreciated by persons skilled in the relevant art removable storage unit includes a computer usable storage medium having stored therein a control logic e.g. computer software and or data.

In alternative implementations secondary memory can include other similar devices for allowing computer programs or other instructions to be loaded into computer system . Such devices can include for example a removable storage unit and an interface . Examples of such devices can include a program cartridge and cartridge interface such as those found in video game devices a removable memory chip e.g. EPROM or PROM and associated socket and other removable storage units and interfaces which allow software and data to be transferred from the removable storage unit to computer system .

Computer system also includes a display that communicates with computer system via a display interface . Although not shown in computer system of as would be understood by a person skilled in the relevant art computer system can communicate with other input output devices such as for example and without limitation a keyboard a pointing device and a Bluetooth device.

Computer system can also include a communications interface . Communications interface allows software and data to be transferred between computer system and external devices. Communications interface can include a modem a network interface such as an Ethernet card a communications port a PCMCIA slot and card or the like. Software and data transferred via communications interface are in the form of signals which may be electronic electromagnetic optical or other signals capable of being received by communications interface . These signals are provided to communications interface via a communications path . Communications path carries signals and may be implemented using wire or cable fiber optics a phone line a cellular phone link a RF link or other communications channels.

In this document the terms computer program medium and computer usable medium are used to generally refer to media such as removable storage unit removable storage unit and a hard disk installed in hard disk drive . Computer program medium and computer usable medium can also refer to memories such as main memory and secondary memory which can be memory semiconductors e.g. DRAMs etc. . These computer program products provide software to computer system .

Computer programs also called computer control logic are stored on main memory and or secondary memory . Computer programs may also be received via communications interface . Such computer programs when executed enable computer system to implement embodiments described herein. In particular the computer programs when executed enable processor to implement processes described herein such as the steps in the methods illustrated by flowchart of flowchart of and flowchart of discussed above. Accordingly such computer programs represent controllers of the computer system . Where embodiments are implemented using software the software can be stored on a computer program product and loaded into computer system using removable storage drive interface hard drive or communications interface .

Based on the description herein a person skilled in the relevant art will recognize that the computer programs when executed can enable one or more processors to implement processes described above such as the steps in the method illustrated by flowchart of flowchart of and flowchart of . In an embodiment the one or more processors can be part of a computing device incorporated in a clustered computing environment or server farm. Further in an embodiment the computing process performed by the clustered computing environment such as for example the steps in the method illustrated by flowchart flowchart and flowchart may be carried out across multiple processors located at the same or different locations.

Based on the description herein a person of skilled in the relevant art will recognize that the computer programs when executed can enable multiple processors to implement processes described above such as the steps in the method illustrated by flowchart of flowchart of and flowchart of . In an embodiment the computing process performed by the multiple processors can be carried out across multiple processors located at a different location from one another.

Embodiments are also directed to computer program products including software stored on any computer usable medium e.g. computer useable medium and . Such software when executed in one or more data processing device causes a data processing device s to operate as described herein. Embodiments employ any computer usable or readable medium known now or in the future. Examples of computer usable mediums include but are not limited to primary storage devices e.g. any type of random access memory secondary storage devices e.g. hard drives floppy disks CD ROMS ZIP disks tapes magnetic storage devices optical storage devices MEMS nanotechnological storage devices etc. and communication mediums e.g. wired and wireless communications networks local area networks wide area networks intranets etc. .

Embodiments have been described above with the aid of functional building blocks illustrating the implementation of specified functions and relationships thereof. The boundaries of these functional building blocks have been arbitrarily defined herein for the convenience of the description. Alternate boundaries can be defined so long as the specified functions and relationships thereof are appropriately performed.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. It will be understood by those skilled in the relevant art that various changes in form and details can be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the embodiments described herein. It should be understood that this description is not limited to these examples. This description is applicable to any elements operating as described herein. Accordingly the breadth and scope of this description should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

