---

title: Mobile terminal and chat method in a mobile terminal using an instant messaging service
abstract: A mobile terminal and chat method in a mobile terminal using an instant messaging service are provided. According to the present invention, in the course of a chat with a specific party using an instant messaging service, a specific one of previous chat contents with at least one party including the specific party may be used as a chat content with the specific party.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08583086&OS=08583086&RS=08583086
owner: LG Electronics Inc.
number: 08583086
owner_city: Seoul
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20100127
---
Pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 119 a this application claims the benefit of earlier filing date and right of priority to Korean Application No. 10 2009 0034541 filed on Apr. 21 2009 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The present invention is directed to a mobile terminal and more particularly to a mobile terminal and chatting method therein using an instant messaging service.

A terminal is a device which may be configured to perform various functions. Examples of such functions include data and voice communications capturing images and video via a camera recording audio playing music files via a speaker system and displaying images and video on a display. Some terminals include additional functionality that supports game playing while other terminals are configured as multimedia players. More recently terminals have been configured to receive broadcast and multicast signals that permit viewing of content such as videos and television programs.

Efforts are ongoing to support and increase the functionality of terminals. Such efforts include software and hardware improvements as well as changes and improvements in the structural components which form the terminal.

Generally a terminal capable of implementing an instant messaging service according to a related art permits a user to have a chat with another party using the instant messaging service and further allows receiving and sending data in a file format. Furthermore the content of a chat is stored according to a selection made by the user. If a request is made by the user stored chat content is provided to the user.

However the related art methods make it inconvenient for a user to input each chat content one by one during the course of a chat with a specific party using an instant messaging service. Furthermore even if a previous chat content is stored a method of using the previously stored chat content as the chat content of a currently ongoing chat is not provided.

In one aspect of the present invention a mobile terminal for performing a chat using an instant messaging service is provided. The mobile terminal includes a wireless communication unit configured to perform the chat with at least one chat party using the instant messaging service a display unit configured to display at least one chat window including a chat content display region and a chat content input region while the chat with the at least one chat party is ongoing the chat content display region displays at least one message previously transmitted to the at least one chat party and the chat content input region displays at least one new message that is to be transmitted to the at least one chat party and a controller configured to control the wireless communication unit to perform the chat with a first chat party control the display unit to display a first chat window when the first chat party is selected control the wireless communication unit to perform the chat with a second chat party when the second chat party is selected and control the display unit to display at least one specific message transmitted during the chat with the first chat party in the chat content input region.

It is contemplated that the controller is further configured to control the display unit to delete the at least one specific message transmitted during the chat with the first chat part that is displayed in the chat content input region when at least one new text message is input in the chat content input region or edit the at least one specific message transmitted during the chat with the first chat part that is displayed in the chat content input region when an editing function is selected. It is further contemplated that the display unit is further configured to display identification information of at least one party that may be selected as the at least one chat party under control of the controller and the controller is further configured to process a selection of the second chat party on the display unit using the displayed identification information.

It is contemplated that the display unit is further configured to display a second chat window including a chat content display region and a chat content input region under control of the controller while the chat with the second chat party is ongoing and display the content of the at least one specific previous chat with the first chat party in the chat content input region of the second chat window. It is further contemplated that the display is further configured to display the content of the at least one specific previous chat with the first chat party in the chat content input region of the second chat window such that it is distinguishable from a content of the chat with the second chat party.

It is contemplated that the controller is further configured to control the display unit to switch the first chat window to the second chat window on a same region of the display unit if the second chat party is selected while the chat with the first chat party is ongoing. It is further contemplated that the wireless communication unit is further configured to transmit the content of the at least one specific previous chat with the first chat party to the second chat party under control of the controller receive an input of a new chat content delete the content of the at least one specific previous chat with the first chat party and transmit the new chat content to the second chat party under control of the controller or edit the content of the at least one specific previous chat with the first chat party and transmit the edited chat content to the second chat party under control of the controller.

It is contemplated that the display unit is further configured to display the transmitted content of the at least one specific previous chat with the first chat party the transmitted new chat content or the transmitted edited chat content on the chat content display region of the second chat window under control of the controller. It is further contemplated that the controller is further configured to input the content of a last of a plurality of previous chats with the first chat party as the content of the chat with the second chat party.

It is contemplated that the controller is further configured to process an external signal to add a chat party to receive the content of the at least one specific previous chat with the first chat party and control the wireless communication unit to transmit the content of the at least one specific previous chat with the first chat party to the added chat party. It is further contemplated that the controller is further configured to input the content of a specific one of a plurality of previous chats with the first chat party that also included at least one additional chat party as the content of the chat with the second chat party.

It is contemplated that the mobile terminal further includes a user input unit configured to receive an input via a direction key manipulation and a selection of at least one specific previous chat content from a list of previous chat contents with at least one chat party and the controller is further configured to input the selected at least one specific previous chat content as a content of a chat with each of the first and second chat parties according to the input received via the direction key manipulation. It is further contemplated that the mobile terminal further includes a memory configured to store a content of the chat with the first and second chat parties.

In another aspect of the present invention a method for performing a chat in a mobile terminal using an instant messaging service is provided The method includes displaying at least one chat window including a chat content display region and a chat content input region on a display while a chat with at least one chat party is ongoing the chat content display region displays at least one message previously transmitted to the at least one chat party and the chat content input region displays at least one new message that is to be transmitted to the at least one chat party performing the chat with a first chat party and displaying a first chat window on the display when the first chat party is selected performing the chat with a second chat party when the second chat party is selected and displaying at least one specific message transmitted during the chat with the first chat party in the chat content input region.

It is contemplated that the method further includes deleting the at least one specific message transmitted during the chat with the first chat party from the chat content input region when at least one new text message is input in the chat content input region or editing the at least one specific message transmitted during the chat with the first chat part that is displayed in the chat content input region when an editing function is selected. It is further contemplated that the method further includes displaying identification information on the display of at least one party that may be selected as the at least one chat party and processing a selection of the second chat party using the displayed identification information.

It is contemplated that the method further includes displaying a second chat window including a chat content display region and a chat content input region on the display while the chat with the second chat party is ongoing and displaying the content of the at least one specific previous chat with the first chat party in the chat content input region of the second chat window. It is further contemplated that the method further includes displaying the content of the at least one specific previous chat with the first chat party in the chat content input region of the second chat window such that it is distinguishable from a content of the chat with the second chat party.

It is contemplated that the method further includes switching the first chat window to the second chat window on a same region of the display if the second chat party is selected while the chat with the first chat party is ongoing. It is further contemplated that the method further includes transmitting the content of the at least one specific previous chat with the first chat party to the second chat party receiving an input of a new chat content deleting the content of the at least one specific previous chat with the first chat party and transmitting the new chat content to the second chat party or editing the content of the at least one specific previous chat with the first chat party and transmitting the edited chat content to the second chat.

It is contemplated that the method further includes displaying the transmitted content of the at least one specific previous chat with the first chat party the transmitted new chat content or the transmitted edited chat content on the chat content display region of the second chat window. It is further contemplated that the method further includes inputting the content of a last of a plurality of previous chats with the first chat party as the content of the chat with the second chat party.

It is contemplated that the method further includes processing an external signal to add a chat party to receive the content of the at least one specific previous chat with the first chat party and transmitting the content of the at least one specific previous chat with the first chat party to the added chat party. It is further contemplated that the method further includes inputting the content of a specific one of a plurality of previous chats with the first chat party that also included at least one additional chat party as the content of the chat with the second chat party.

It is contemplated that the method further includes receiving an input via a direction key manipulation and a selection of at least one specific previous chat content from a list of previous chat contents with at least one chat party and inputting the selected at least one specific previous chat content as a content of a chat with each of the first and second chat parties according to the input received via the direction key manipulation. It is further contemplated that the method further includes storing a content of the chat with the first and second chat parties.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description of the present invention are exemplary and explanatory and are intended to provide further explanation of the invention as claimed.

Reference will now be made in detail to the preferred embodiments of the present invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. Wherever possible the same reference numbers will be used throughout the drawings to refer to the same or like parts. The suffixes module and unit for the elements used in the following description are given or used in common by considering facilitation in writing this disclosure only but fail to have meanings or roles discriminated from each other.

Mobile terminals described in this disclosure can include a mobile phone a smart phone a laptop computer a digital broadcast terminal a PDA personal digital assistants a PMP portable multimedia player a navigation system and similar terminals. Except where the disclosure is specifically related to a mobile terminal it is apparent to those skilled in the art that the configurations according to an embodiment described in this disclosure is applicable to such a stationary terminal as a digital TV a desktop computer and similar terminals.

By way of non limiting example only further description will be with regard to a slide type mobile terminal . However such teachings apply equally to other types of terminals.

Referring to a mobile terminal according to one embodiment of the present invention includes a wireless communication unit an A V audio video input unit a user input unit a sensing unit an output unit a memory an interface unit a controller and a power supply unit . shows the mobile terminal having various components but it is understood that implementing all of the illustrated components is not a requirement. Greater or fewer components may alternatively be implemented.

The broadcast receiving module receives a broadcast signal and or broadcast associated information from an external broadcast managing server via a broadcast channel. The broadcast channel may include a satellite channel or a terrestrial channel.

The broadcast managing server refers generally to a system that transmits a broadcast signal and or broadcast associated information. Examples of broadcast associated information include information associated with a broadcast channel a broadcast program and a broadcast service provider. For example the broadcast associated information may include an electronic program guide EPG of digital multimedia broadcasting DMB and electronic service guide ESG of digital video broadcast handheld DVB H .

The broadcast signal may be implemented as a TV broadcast signal a radio broadcast signal or a data broadcast signal. The broadcast signal may further include a broadcast signal combined with a TV or radio broadcast signal.

The broadcast receiving module may be configured to receive broadcast signals transmitted from various types of broadcast systems. By way of non limiting examples such broadcasting systems include digital multimedia broadcasting terrestrial DMB T digital multimedia broadcasting satellite DMB S digital video broadcast handheld DVB H the data broadcasting system known as media forward link only MediaFLO and integrated services digital broadcast terrestrial ISDB T .

Receiving multicast signals is also possible. Data received by the broadcast receiving module may be stored in a suitable device such as the memory .

The mobile communication module communicates wireless signals with one or more network entities such as base station or Node B. Such signals may represent for example audio video multimedia control signaling or data.

The wireless Internet module supports Internet access for the mobile terminal . The wireless Internet module may be internally or externally coupled to the mobile terminal . The wireless Internet technology can include for example WLAN Wireless LAN Wi Fi Wibro Wireless broadband Wimax World Interoperability for Microwave Access or HSDPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access .

The short range communication module facilitates relatively short range communications. Suitable technologies for short range communication may include but are not limited to radio frequency identification RFID infrared data association IrDA ultra wideband UWB as well at the networking technologies commonly referred to as Bluetooth and ZigBee .

The position location module identifies or otherwise obtains the location of the mobile terminal . The position location module may be implemented using global positioning system GPS components that cooperate with associated satellites network components and combinations thereof.

The audio video A V input unit is configured to provide audio or video signal input to the mobile terminal . As shown the A V input unit includes a camera and a microphone .

The camera receives and processes image frames of still pictures or video which are obtained by an image sensor in a video call mode or a photographing mode. The processed image frames can be displayed on the display . The image frames processed by the camera can be stored in the memory or can be externally transmitted via the wireless communication unit .

The microphone receives an external audio signal while the mobile terminal is in a particular mode such as phone call mode recording mode or voice recognition mode. This audio signal is processed and converted into digital data. The mobile terminal and specifically the A V input unit may include assorted noise removing algorithms to remove noise generated in the course of receiving the external audio signal.

Data generated by the A V input unit may be stored in the memory utilized by the output unit or transmitted via one or more modules of the communication unit . If desired two or more cameras or microphones may be provided.

The user input unit generates input data responsive to user manipulation of an associated input device or devices. Examples of such devices include a keypad a dome switch a touchpad such as static pressure capacitance a jog wheel and a jog switch.

The sensing unit provides status measurements of various aspects of the mobile terminal . For example the sensing unit may detect an open close status of the mobile terminal the relative positioning of components such as a display and keypad a change of position of the mobile terminal or a component of the mobile terminal a presence or absence of user contact with the mobile terminal or orientation or acceleration deceleration of the mobile terminal.

The mobile terminal may be configured as a slide type mobile terminal and the sensing unit may sense whether a sliding portion of the mobile terminal is open or closed. The sensing unit may also sense the presence or absence of power provided by the power supply or the presence or absence of a coupling or other connection between the interface unit and an external device.

The output unit generates outputs relevant to the senses such as sight hearing and touch. The output unit is illustrated in as having a display an audio output module an alarm unit a haptic module and a projector module .

The display is typically implemented to visually display output information associated with the mobile terminal . For example if the mobile terminal is operating in a phone call mode the display will generally provide a user interface UI or graphical user interface GUI that includes information associated with placing conducting and terminating a phone call. If the mobile terminal is in a video call mode or a photographing mode the display may additionally or alternatively display images which are associated with these modes the UI or the GUI.

One particular implementation of the present invention includes the display configured as a touch screen working in cooperation with an input device such as a touchpad. This configuration permits the display to function both as an output device and an input device.

The display may be implemented using known display technologies including a liquid crystal display LCD a thin film transistor liquid crystal display TFT LCD an organic light emitting diode display OLED a flexible display and a three dimensional display. The mobile terminal may include one or more displays .

Some of the displays can be implemented as a transparent or optical transmittive type which can be called a transparent display. The transparent display may be a TOLED transparent OLED . A rear configuration of the display can be implemented as an optical transmittive type as well. In this configuration a user is able to see an object at the rear of the terminal body via the area occupied by the display .

At least two displays can be provided in accordance with the implemented configuration of the mobile terminal . For example a plurality of displays can be arranged on a single face of the mobile terminal such that they are spaced apart from each other or built in one body. Alternatively a plurality of displays can be arranged on different faces of the mobile terminal .

If the display and a sensor for detecting a touch action hereinafter called touch sensor form a mutual layer structure such as a touch screen the touch sensor can be configured as a touch film a touch sheet or a touchpad. The touch sensor can be configured to convert a pressure applied to a specific portion of the display or a variation of a capacitance generated from a specific portion of the display into an electric input signal. Furthermore the touch sensor may be configured to detect a pressure of a touch as well as a touched position or size.

If a touch input is made to the touch sensor signal s corresponding to the touch are transferred to a touch controller not shown . The touch controller processes the signal s and then transfers the processed signal s to the controller . The controller is able to determine whether a specific portion of the display is touched.

A proximity sensor not shown can be provided at an internal area of the mobile terminal enclosed by the touch screen or around the touch screen. The proximity sensor is a sensor that detects a presence or non presence of an object approaching a specific detecting surface or an object existing around the proximity sensor using an electromagnetic field strength or infrared ray without mechanical contact. Therefore the proximity sensor is more durable than a contact type sensor and also provides wider utility than a contact type sensor.

The proximity sensor may include a transmittive photoelectric sensor a direct reflective photoelectric sensor a mirror reflective photoelectric sensor a radio frequency oscillation proximity sensor an electrostatic capacity proximity sensor a magnetic proximity sensor an infrared proximity sensor or similar sensors. If the touch screen includes an electrostatic capacity proximity sensor it is configured to detect the proximity of a pointer using a variation of electric field according to the proximity of the pointer. In this case the touch screen touch sensor can be classified as the proximity sensor.

In the following description an action where a pointer that approaches without contacting the touch screen is recognized as located on the touch screen is called a proximity touch . Furthermore an action where a pointer actually touches the touch screen is called a contact touch . The meaning of a position on the touch screen proximity touched by the pointer is a position of the pointer that vertically opposes the touch screen when the pointer performs the proximity touch.

The proximity sensor detects a proximity touch and a proximity touch pattern e.g. a proximity touch distance a proximity touch duration a proximity touch position or a proximity touch shift state . Information corresponding to the detected proximity touch and the detected proximity touch pattern can be output to the touch screen.

The audio output module supports the audio output requirements of the mobile terminal . The audio output module may be implemented using one or more speakers buzzers other audio producing devices or combinations thereof.

The audio output module functions in various modes such as call receiving mode call placing mode recording mode voice recognition mode and broadcast reception mode. The audio output module outputs audio relating to a particular function or status such as call received message received or errors.

The alarm unit may signal or otherwise identify the occurrence of a particular event associated with the mobile terminal . Typical events include call received message received and user input received.

The alarm unit outputs a signal for announcing the event occurrence via vibration as well as via video or audio signal. The video or audio signal can be output via the display or the audio output unit . Therefore the display or the audio output module can be regarded as a part of the alarm unit .

The haptic module generates various tactile effects that can be sensed by a user. Vibration is a representative one of the tactile effects generated by the haptic module . Strength and pattern of the vibration generated by the haptic module are controllable. For example different vibrations may be output by being synthesized together or may be output in sequence.

The haptic module is able to generate various tactile effects as well as vibration. For example the haptic module may generate the effect of an arrangement of pins vertically moving against a contact skin surface the effect of an injection suction power of air though an injection suction hole the effect of skimming over a skin surface the effect of contact with an electrode the effect of electrostatic force or the effect of hold cold using an endothermic or exothermic device.

The haptic module can be implemented to enable a user to sense the tactile effect through a muscle sense of a finger an arm or other body part as well as to transfer the tactile effect through a direct contact. At least two haptic modules can be provided in the mobile terminal in accordance with the corresponding configuration of the mobile terminal.

The projector module is an element for performing an image projector function using the mobile terminal . The projector module may display an image which is identical to or partially different from the image displayed on the display on an external screen or wall according to a control signal from the controller .

The projector module may include a light source not shown such as a laser for projecting an image externally an image producing means for producing an image to output externally using the light generated from the light source and a lens for enlarging the externally output image in a predetermined focus distance. The projector module can further include a device for adjusting an image projected direction by mechanically moving the lens or the entire projector module.

The projector module can be classified as a CRT cathode ray tube module an LCD liquid crystal display module or a DLP digital light processing module according to a type of display means. Specifically the DLP module is operated by enabling the light generated from the light source to reflect on a DMD digital micro mirror device chip and can be advantageous for limiting the size of the projector module .

Preferably the projector module is provided in a length direction of a lateral front or backside direction of the mobile terminal . However it is understood that the projector module may be provided on any portion of the mobile terminal .

The memory is generally used to store various types of data to support the processing control and storage requirements of the mobile terminal . Examples of such data include program instructions for applications operating in the mobile terminal contact data phonebook data messages pictures and video.

The memory may be implemented using any type or combination of suitable volatile and non volatile memory or storage devices. Examples of memory types are random access memory RAM static random access memory SRAM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM programmable read only memory PROM read only memory ROM magnetic memory flash memory magnetic or optical disk memory card type memory and other similar memory or data storage devices.

The interface unit is often implemented to couple the mobile terminal with external devices. The interface unit receives data from the external devices or is supplied with power and then transfers the data or power to the respective elements of the mobile terminal or enables data within the mobile terminal to be transferred to the external devices. The interface unit may be configured using a wired wireless headset port an external charger port a wired wireless data port a memory card port a port for coupling to a device having an identity module audio input output ports video input output ports or an earphone port.

The identity module is a chip for storing various kinds of information for authenticating a user s authority to use the mobile terminal and can include a User Identify Module UIM a Subscriber Identify Module SIM or a Universal Subscriber Identity Module USIM . A device having the identity module hereinafter called identity device can be manufactured as a smart card. Therefore the identity device is connectible to the mobile terminal via a corresponding port.

When the mobile terminal is connected to an external cradle the interface unit provides a passage for supplying the mobile terminal with power from the cradle or a passage for delivering various command signals to the mobile terminal that are input from the cradle by a user. Each of the various command signals input from the cradle or the power can operate as a signal enabling the mobile terminal to determine that it is correctly loaded in the cradle.

The controller typically controls the overall operations of the mobile terminal . For example the controller performs the control and processing associated with voice calls data communications instant message communication video calls camera operations and recording operations. Furthermore the controller may perform a pattern recognizing process for recognizing a writing input and a picture drawing input performed on the touch screen as characters or images.

The controller may include a multimedia module that provides multimedia playback. The multimedia module may be configured as part of the controller or implemented as a separate component.

The power supply provides power required by the various components for the mobile terminal . The power may be internal power external power or combinations thereof.

Various embodiments described herein may be implemented in various ways. For example the embodiments may be implemented in a computer readable medium using computer software hardware or some combination thereof.

For a hardware implementation the embodiments described may be implemented within one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs digital signal processors DSPs digital signal processing devices DSPDs programmable logic devices PLDs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs processors controllers micro controllers microprocessors other electronic units designed to perform the functions described herein or a combination of these devices. The controller may also implement such embodiments.

For a software implementation the embodiments described herein may be implemented with separate software modules such as procedures and functions each of which perform one or more of the functions and operations described herein. The software codes can be implemented with a software application written in any suitable programming language and may be stored in memory such as the memory and executed by a controller or processor such as the controller .

As illustrated in to the mobile terminal includes a case casing housing cover etc. configuring an exterior of the mobile terminal. The case can be divided into a front case and a rear case. Various electric electronic parts are located in a space between the front and rear cases. Optionally at least one middle case can be provided between the front and rear cases.

The cases and may be formed by injection molding synthetic resin. The cases and may also be formed of a metal substance such as stainless steel STS or titanium Ti . The display audio output unit camera manipulating units and microphone and interface unit can be provided on the terminal body specifically on the front case .

The display occupies most of a main face of the front case . The audio output unit and the camera are provided on an area adjacent to one of the end portions of the display while one manipulating input unit and the microphone are provided on another area adjacent to the other end portion of the display. The other manipulating unit and the interface unit can be provided on lateral sides of the front and rear cases and .

The input unit is manipulated to input a command for controlling an operation of the terminal and may include the manipulating units and . The manipulating units and can be called a manipulating portion and may adopt any mechanism having a tactile manner that enables a user to perform a manipulation action by experiencing a tactile feeling.

Content input via the first or second manipulating unit or can be diversely set. For example a command such as start end or scroll is input via the first manipulating unit and a command for a volume adjustment of sound output from the audio output unit or a command for switching to a touch recognizing mode of the display can be input via the second manipulating unit

As illustrated in an additional camera can be provided on a rear side of the terminal body specifically on the rear case . The camera has a photographing direction that is substantially opposite to that of the camera illustrated in and may have pixels differing from those of the camera .

Preferably the camera illustrated in has pixels low enough to capture and transmit a picture of user s face for a video call while the camera has high pixels for capturing a general subject for photography without transmitting the captured subject. Each of the cameras and can be installed such that they can be rotated or popped up.

A flash and a mirror are additionally provided adjacent to the camera . The flash projects light toward a subject for photographing the subject using the camera . If user attempts to take a self photography using the camera the mirror enables the user to view his or her face reflected by the mirror .

An additional audio output unit can be provided on the rear side of the terminal body. The additional audio output unit may implement a stereo function together with the audio output unit illustrated in and may be used for implementation of a speakerphone mode while talking.

A broadcast signal receiving antenna can be provided on the lateral side of the terminal body as well as an antenna for communication. The antenna comprising a portion of the broadcast receiving module illustrated in can be retractably provided on the terminal body.

A power supply unit for supplying power to the terminal is provided. The power supply unit can be configured to be located within the terminal body. Alternatively the power supply unit can be configured to be detachably connected to the terminal body.

A touchpad for detecting a touch can be provided on the rear case . The touchpad can be configured as a light transmittive type similar to the display .

If the display is configured to output visual information from both its faces it possible to recognize the visual information via the touchpad as well. The information output from both faces of the display can be entirely controlled by the touchpad . Alternatively a display may be provided on the touchpad so that a touchscreen can be provided on the rear case as well.

The touchpad is activated by interconnecting with the display of the front case . The touchpad can be provided at the rear of the display in parallel. The touchpad can have a size equal to or smaller than the size of the display .

The proximity sensor illustrated in is explained in detail with reference to . is a conceptional diagram illustrating a proximity depth of the proximity sensor .

As illustrated in when a pointer such as a user s finger or a pen approaches the touchscreen the proximity sensor provided within or in the vicinity of the touchscreen detects the approach of the pointer and then outputs a proximity signal. The proximity sensor can be configured to output a different proximity signal according to a distance between the pointer and the proximity touched touch screen hereinafter proximity depth .

If the pointer is fully contacted with the touchscreen d a contact touch is recognized. If the pointer is located such that it is spaced apart from the touchscreen by a distance less than d a proximity touch to a first proximity depth is recognized. If the pointer is located such that it is spaced apart from the touchscreen by a distance between d and d a proximity touch to a second proximity depth is recognized. If the pointer is located such that it is spaced apart from the touchscreen by a distance less than d or equal to or greater than d a proximity touch to a third proximity depth is recognized. If the pointer is located such that it is spaced apart from the touchscreen by a distance equal to or greater than d a released proximity touch is recognized.

The controller recognizes the proximity touch as one of various input signals according to the proximity depth and position of the pointer. The controller performs various operation controls according to the various input signals.

An instant messaging service IMS according to the present invention is a service capable of performing real time data communication such as a text chat a speech chat a video chat or file transceiving between a plurality of terminals provided with IMS implementation functions based on an Internet protocol. The IMS can include a mobile instant messaging service that supports an IMS between mobile terminals.

A method of setting an instant message IM session using an IMS is explained with reference to . illustrates a method of setting an IM session with one other party and illustrates a method of setting IM sessions with a plurality of other parties.

As illustrated in the mobile terminal tries to connect an IM session by sending an SIP invite message which is a message to request an IM session setting to an IMS server S . The SIP invite message can include a call ID header value for identifying an IM session and address information of a server that will receive data transmitted by the mobile terminal according to an IM session setting. Therefore even if a plurality of IM sessions are set it possible to identify each of the IM sessions using a call ID header value of the corresponding IM session.

The IMS server sends the received SIP invite message to another party s terminal S . The SIP invite message can include address information of a server that will receive this data.

The other party s terminal receives the SIP invite message from the IMS server and then sends a response message for the IMS session setting request SIP 200 OK message to the IMS server S . The response message can include address information of a server that will receive the data transmitted by the other party s terminal to the IMS server .

The IMS server receives the response message from the other party s terminal and then transmits the received response message to the mobile terminal S . The response message can include address information of a server that will receive this data.

Once the IM session is set up a chatting operation or a file transceiving operation can be performed via the IM session. As illustrated in it is possible to set up IM sessions with a plurality of other parties by performing the above process described with reference to with the plurality of other parties.

A chat method of a mobile terminal using an instant messaging service IMS according to the present invention is explained with reference to . illustrates a flowchart for a chat method of a mobile terminal using an instant messaging service according to one embodiment of the present invention.

In the following description a chat via IMS can include a speech chat a video chat file transceiving or a text chat. The chat via IMS for is limited to the text chat with file transceiving included in the text chat. The chat via IMS includes a con on one chat or a chat with a plurality of other users. For purposes of this disclosure the chat is limited to the one on one chat. Moreover chat content according to this disclosure can be stored in the memory under the control of the controller .

As illustrated in the mobile terminal performs a chat with a first party using an IMS hereinafter first chat . The first chat is performed via the wireless communication unit under the control of the controller S .

If a menu item key or a key region corresponding to an IMS execution is selected by a user the mobile terminal can be connected to an IMS managing server not shown using the wireless communication unit and specifically via the wireless internet module . Subsequently the mobile terminal receives the first party s status information from the connected IMS managing server or performs a chat with a specific party via the connected IMS managing server.

When performing the first chat S the mobile terminal receives status information of current chat available parties from the IMS managing server and then displays the received status information in list form. If a first party is selected as a chat party from the list by a user the mobile terminal executes the first chat S . The chat content transceived when performing the first chat S can be stored in the memory under the control of the controller .

The IMS managing server may be an Internet component that transceives status information of each mobile terminal or a user of the corresponding mobile terminal or transceives chat content or a file according to an IM session setting when performing an IMS among a plurality of mobile terminals. The status information is information related to a status of a terminal or a user of the terminal subscribed for the IMS and can include on off absence in meeting at table very busy calling or on duty.

When performing a chat with the first party S the mobile terminal displays a first chat window via the display under the control of the controller S . The first chat window can include a chat content display region for displaying a chat content transceived with the first party and a chat content input region for displaying a chat content input for transmission to the first party. The user is able to input chat content for transmission to the first party by manipulating the user input unit such as a keypad.

A process for displaying a last transmitted chat content on a chat content input region of a first chat window is explained in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. For clarity it is assumed that a name of the first party is Chul Soo .

As illustrated in a first chat window on the display can include a chat content display region and a chat content input region . Chat content transceived with Chul Soo can be displayed on the chat content display region and chat content input for transmission to Chul Soo can be displayed on the chat content input region .

As illustrated in if a send region for inputting a command for transmitting chat content to Chul Soo is selected by a user in the mobile terminal transmits an input chat content e.g. How are you See you at Exit 8 of Gangnam Station 7 PM today to Chul Soo s terminal via an IMS managing server. The input chat content is displayed on the chat content display region .

As illustrated in although a last transmitted chat content hereinafter last chat content has been transmitted to Chul Soo the mobile terminal still displays the last chat content on the chat content input region . If a delete region is selected by the user the mobile terminal deletes the last chat content from the chat content input region receives an input of a new chat content from the user and then displays the received input on the chat content input region .

As illustrated in while the last chat content is displayed on the chat content input region if a new chat content is input by the user the mobile terminal deletes the last chat content from the chat content input region and then displays the newly input chat content on the chat content input region .

As illustrated in if the mobile terminal transmits the last chat content to Chul Soo the mobile terminal no longer displays the last chat content on the chat content input region . However if a menu item key or key region corresponding to a previous chat content display is selected by the user the last chat content or a previous chat content can be displayed on the chat content input region .

As illustrated in if a chat party selecting operation is performed by the user via the user input unit the mobile terminal selects a second party corresponding to the input chat party selecting operation under the control of the controller S . If the second party is selected as the chat party the first chat can be maintained or terminated. If the first chat is maintained the mobile terminal performs the first chat and the second chat simultaneously or selectively according to a selection made by the user.

During the first chat S the mobile terminal displays identification information of a party selectable as a chat party on a portion of a screen. The identification information is information registered in the IMS to identify each terminal or a terminal user when performing the IMS and can include a nickname a title contact information and or image information icon symbol photo animation or flash . For example the identification information is displayed in a tag format of the first chat window displayed on a separate display region or displayed in a list form.

The party selectable as the chat party can include a party currently connected to an IMS a party in a chat state according to a current IM session setting a party belonging to the same group as the first party or a party having chatted within a predetermined period of time. The party selectable as the chat party is a terminal or a terminal user mutually registered to transceive data with the mobile terminal using the IMS.

A process for selecting a second party as a chat party is explained in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. For clarity and convenience of description it is assumed that the second party is Young Hee and an example of displaying identification information in a tag format is shown in the accompanying drawings.

If a touch and drag direction is in a right direction or a down direction a party located in order after Chul Soo is selected as a chat party. If a touch and drag distance is in a left direction or an up direction a party located in order before Chul Soo is selected as a chat party.

As illustrated in the mobile terminal performs a second chat with the second party selected as the chat party S using an IMS via the wireless communication unit under the control of the controller S . The mobile terminal displays a second chat window via the display under the control of the controller for the chat with the second party S .

Subsequently the mobile terminal inputs a specific chat content from the previous first chat with the first party as a chat content hereinafter second chat content with the second party under the control of the controller S . The specific previous chat content input as the second chat content with the second party can be displayed on a chat content input region of the second chat window.

The second chat window can be displayed on the same region of the screen of the first chat window. Therefore when the second party is selected as the chat party the first chat is switched to the second chat and the mobile terminal changes the first chat window to the second chat window for display on the same region under the control of the controller . Alternately the first chat window and the second chat window can be displayed by discriminating display regions from each other.

The previous chat contents can include a previous chat content transmitted by the mobile terminal a previous chat content transmitted by the first party or a file transceived by the mobile terminal or the first party. Furthermore the specific previous chat content can include the chat content last transceived with the first party among the above described previous chat contents.

A process for inputting a specific previous chat content as a second chat content is explained in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. For clarity and convenience of description it is assumed that first party is Chul Soo and the second party is Young Hee .

As illustrated in the mobile terminal inputs a previous chat content e.g. How are you See you at Exit 8 of Gangnam Station which was last transmitted to Chul Soo by the mobile terminal in the first chat as a second chat content. The mobile terminal then displays the input second chat content on a chat content input region .

As illustrated in the mobile terminal inputs a previous chat content e.g. Can we change a meeting place into Samsung Station which was last received from Chul Soo in the first chat as a second chat content. The mobile terminal then displays the input second chat content on a chat content input region .

As illustrated in the mobile terminal inputs a file e.g. outlinemap.jpg which was last transmitted to Chul Soo by the mobile terminal in the first chat as a second chat content. The mobile terminal then displays the input second chat content on a chat content input region .

The first party can include at least one previous chat party having chatted prior to the second chat with the second party. For example the first party can include a party of a chat performed immediately before selection of the second party as the chat party. The first party can include at least one party from all previous chats performed within a predetermined period of time all parties of a previous chat among currently connected parties or parties designated by a user.

Specifically if a plurality of previous chat parties exists a specific previous chat content from the previous chat with a specific one of a plurality of previous chat parties can be input as the chat content with the second party S . Furthermore a previous chat content with the first party or a specific previous chat content from all previous chat contents with a plurality of previous chat parties can be input as the second chat content with the second party S .

A process for inputting a previous chat content transceived with a specific one of a plurality of previous chat parties as the second chat content is explained in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. For clarity and convenience of explanation it is assumed that previous chat parties are Chul Soo and Mi Kyung and the second party is Young Hee .

As illustrated in if a previous chat content with Chul Soo among previous chat parties is input as the second chat content identification information of Chul Soo can be distinguishably displayed in order to announce that the previous chat content with Chul Soo is input as the second chat content. shows a case where a previous chat content with Mi Kyung among previous chat parties is input as the second chat content. As illustrated in a region for announcing the parties to a chat which corresponds to a previous chat content selected as the second chat content can be provided separate from the identification information.

A specific previous chat content can be distinguishably displayed such that it can be distinguished from a normally input chat content. For example the specific previous chat content can be distinguishably displayed using text color background color font size font type or bold. illustrates distinguishably displaying a specific previous chat content which is input as a second chat content within a chat content input region of a second chat window by adjusting opacity color density of the specific previous chat content.

The mobile terminal transmits the input second chat content S to the second party and displays the transmitted second chat content on the chat content display region of the second chat window. The transmission process is part of performing the chat with the second party S and the display process can be a part of displaying the second chat window S . The transmission process can be performed upon the user inputting a chat content transmitting command after completion of inputting the second chat content S .

A process for editing a previous chat content input as a second chat content is explained in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. If a specific previous chat content such as a chat content last transceived in the first chat is input as the second chat content the mobile terminal can perform an operation to edit the input specific previous chat content prior its transmission as illustrated in .

As illustrated in the mobile terminal displays a specific previous chat content input as the second chat content on a chat content input region and displays each region hereinafter editing region for receiving at least one editing command for the input second chat content. For example the editing region can include a send region for receiving a transmit command for the second chat content a delete region for receiving a delete command for the second chat content and an edit region for receiving an amend add command for the second chat content.

If the send region is selected in the mobile terminal transmits the input second chat content to Young Hee. The mobile terminal also displays the transmitted second chat content on a chat content display region .

If the delete region is selected in the mobile terminal deletes the specific previous chat content input as the second chat content transmits a new chat content input by a user to Young Hee and displays the transmitted new chat content on the chat content display region as illustrated in . If a new chat content is directly input by the user instead of selecting the specific editing region in the status shown in can be configured.

If the edit region is selected in the mobile terminal partially amends or deletes the specific previous chat content input as the second chat content or receives a new chat content input by the user in addition to the input specific previous chat content. Subsequently the mobile terminal transmits the edited second chat content to Young Hee and displays the transmitted second chat content on the chat content display region as illustrated in . The newly added chat content can be displayed such that it can be distinguished from the specific previous chat content.

With reference to before transmitting the specific previous chat content input as the second chat content S to the second party the mobile terminal adds a receiving party to which the specific previous chat content is transmitted or additionally inputs the specific previous chat content. Specifically at least one of the previous chat contents transmitted to the second party in the second chat S is transmittable to an additional other party.

A process for adding a party for receiving a previous chat content in a second chat or inputting a plurality of previous chat contents is explained in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. For clarity and convenience of explanation it is assumed that a second party is Young Hee .

As illustrated in the mobile terminal displays a specific previous chat content such as a chat content last transceived in a first chat which is input as a second chat content on a chat content input region of a second chat window . A send region for receiving a command for transmitting the second chat content to Young Hee an add party region for receiving a command for adding a receiving party and an add previous content region for receiving a command for adding a previous chat content can be displayed on the second chatting window .

If the send region is selected in the mobile terminal transmits the input second chat content to Young Hee and displays the transmitted second chat content on a chat content display region . The case where the add correspondent party region is selected in is illustrated in .

As illustrated in before a specific previous chat content input as a second chat content is transmitted if a touch drag operation to a chat content input region containing identification information of an additional party is performed by a user the mobile terminal transmits the specific previous chat content input as the second chat content to the additional party. If an IM session is in process with the additional party the transmitted specific previous chat content is displayed on a chat window for a chat with the additional party. If an IM session is not in process with the additional party an IM session is started with the additional party and the specific previous chat content is transmitted to the additional party.

As illustrated in the mobile terminal displays a list of addible parties on the screen and then transmits the specific previous chat content input as the second chat content to the additional parties selected from the list. If an additional party e.g. Mi Kyung is selected in or the mobile terminal displays additional notification information e.g. identification information display of the additional party.

If the send region is selected after selection of the additional party the mobile terminal transmits the specific previous chat content input as the second chat content to both the second party and the additional party and then informs the additional party that the second chat content has been transmitted as illustrated in .

A case where the add previous content region is selected in is illustrated in . As illustrated in the mobile terminal displays a previous chat content list with addible previous chat contents and then enables a user to select the additional previous chat content from the list. For example the previous chat content list can include a previous chat content with a previous chat party selected by a user only. A method of selecting a previous chat content using a previous chat content list will be explained in detail later.

As illustrated in the mobile terminal sequentially displays previous chat contents with reference to a predetermined order such as an input time order in a previous chat according to a manipulation of a direction key. If an OK region is selected the mobile terminal selects a currently displayed previous chat content as an additional previous chat content. As illustrated in or a specific previous chat content previously input as a second chat content is displayed on a predetermined portion of a chat content input region in addition to displaying the additional previous chat content selecting process.

As illustrated in the mobile terminal displays a plurality of previous chat contents input as a second chat content on each chat content input region . If send is selected the mobile terminal transmits a plurality of the displayed previous chat contents to the second party. A plurality of the transmitted previous chat contents are displayed on the chat content display region for a plurality of chat contents or for a single chat content.

As illustrated in if a chat party is changed during the course of the second chat S the mobile terminal initiates a chat with the changed chat party S . Changing the chat party S and performing the chat with the changed chat party S are identical to performing the second chat by switching the first chat to the second chat and their details are omitted in the following description.

The mobile terminal according to the present invention may use a previous chat content list a direction key manipulation or an initial character input in order to input a previous chat content as a chat content of a currently ongoing chat. The previous chat content includes a chat content or file s transceived in the previous chat with a random correspondent party as well as the currently ongoing chat. A process for inputting a previous chat content as a chat content of a currently ongoing chat using a previous chat content list is explained in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings.

During a chat using an IMS the mobile terminal may receive a signal hereinafter previous chat content input signal for inputting a previous chat content as a chat content of a currently ongoing chat as illustrated in . For example selecting a menu item a key or a key region previous corresponding to a previous chat content may be utilized.

If the previous chat content input signal is input in the mobile terminal displays a previous chat content list including previous chat contents as illustrated in . For example the mobile terminal displays a list including entire previous chat contents a list including a previous chat content with a current chat party or a list including previous chat contents of all parties currently connected to the IM sessions.

Alternatively the mobile terminal provides a user with a selectable list constructing condition and then displays a previous chat content list corresponding to a list constructing condition selected by the user. This is explained in detail with reference to . illustrates a screen configuration in which a plurality of selectable list constructing conditions are provided in a tag format.

For example a previous chat content list is constructed with previous chat contents with all parties if all is selected and a previous chat content list is constructed with previous chat contents with a currently IMS accessed party or a currently OMS connected party if access is selected. If last is selected a previous chat content list is constructed with previous chat contents in a chat performed immediately before a currently ongoing chat. If predetermined period is selected a previous chat content list is constructed with previous chat contents of all chat performed for the predetermined period. If file is selected a previous chat content list is constructed with identification information of a file transceived in a previous chat.

It is understood that various conditions can be further included in the list constructing conditions as well as the above described conditions. The list constructing condition can include a user selected party or a user selected chat .

The previous chat content list includes previous chat contents with a party selected by a user if the user selected party list constructing condition is selected. If the user selected chat list constructing condition is selected the previous chat content list includes previous chat contents transceived in the chat selected by the user.

If individual is selected from the list constructing conditions illustrated in the mobile terminal displays identification information for each selectable previous chat party. The mobile terminal then displays a previous chat content list constructed with a previous chat content with a party corresponding to identification information selected by a user as illustrated in .

As illustrated in the mobile terminal selects at least one previous chat content according to a selection made by a user. The mobile terminal then inputs the selected at least one previous chat content as a chat content of a currently ongoing chat.

When transmitting the selected at least one previous chat content to a party the mobile terminal displays the transmitted at least one previous chat content on a chat content display region as illustrated in . Furthermore if the previous chat content includes a file the mobile terminal transmits the file to the party. The previous chat content list can include information related to a time for transceiving a previous chat content or information related to a party.

A process for inputting a previous chat content as a chat content of a currently ongoing chat using a direction key is explained in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. If a previous chat content input signal is input in the mobile terminal displays a direction key for receiving a command signal for shifting to a first previous chat content and a previous chat content located before or after the first previous chat content on a chat content input region as illustrated in .

The direction key can be provided as a virtual key on the touch screen shown in . The direction key can include a direction key provided on a keypad of the mobile terminal or a side key for inputting a direction.

For example the first previous chat content can include one of all previous chat contents a previous chat content of a current chat party or a previous chat content of all parties currently connected to IM sessions. The mobile terminal provides settable previous chat content conditions to a user and then displays a previous chat content corresponding to a previous chat content condition selected by the user. This is explained in detail with reference to .

If individual is selected from the previous chat content conditions illustrated in the mobile terminal displays identification information on each selectable previous chat party. The mobile terminal then displays one of previous chat contents of a party corresponding to the identification information selected by a user from the displayed identification information as the first previous chat content.

It is understood that various other conditions can be included in the previous chat content conditions as well as the above described conditions. The previous chat content conditions can include a user selected party or a user selected chat .

The first previous chat content can include one of previous chat contents with a party selected by a user. If the user selected chat is selected the first previous chat content can include one of previous chat contents transceived in the chat selected by the user.

If the down direction key is selected in the mobile terminal inputs a previous second chat content located in order next to a currently displayed first previous chat content as a chat content as illustrated in . If the down direction key is selected in the mobile terminal inputs a third chat content located in order next to the second previous chat content as a chat content as illustrated in .

In this way the order of the previous chat content can be set based on an input time in a previous chat. The order of the previous chat content can be set by a user and a specific previous chat content can be excluded from the order according to a selection made by the user. When transmitting the input previous chat content to a party the mobile terminal displays the transmitted previous chat content on a chat content display region refer to as illustrated in .

A process for inputting a previous chat content as a chat content of a currently ongoing chat using an initial character input is explained in detail with reference to the accompanying drawings. If a previous chat content input signal is input in the mobile terminal sets a status for receiving information for searching previous chat contents as illustrated in .

As illustrated in the mobile terminal receives an input of at least one word or character from a user which is provided as information for searching for a previous chat content. The mobile terminal displays a list including at least one previous chat content containing the word or character received as illustrated in and then allows a user to select a specific previous chat content from the displayed list.

The mobile terminal them inputs the selected specific previous chat content as the chat content. The mobile terminal transmits the input specific previous chat content to a party when send selected in and displays the transmitted specific previous chat content on the chat content display region .

The mobile terminal allows a user to select a specific previous chat content from previous chat content s including the character input in . Alternatively the mobile terminal displays a random previous chat content including the word or character input in on the chat content input region and allows a user to select a previous chat content located before or after the displayed random previous chat content via manipulation of a direction key by searching the previous chat contents.

The present invention provides several effects or advantages. First the present invention enables a specific one of previous chat contents to be input as a chat content of a currently ongoing chat thereby alleviating the inconvenience of inputting chat contents one by one. Second if a plurality of chat sessions is set the present invention can transmit a specific previous chat content to all parties connected to a chat session thereby making it unnecessary to input a chat content by opening a chat window for each of the parties one by one.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in the present invention without departing from the spirit or scope of the inventions. Thus it is intended that the present invention covers the modifications and variations of this invention provided they come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

