---

title: Method for insertion of material into cigarette filters
abstract: Filter rods for use in the manufacture of cigarette filter elements are provided, with each rod having a longitudinal axis and incorporating a generally longitudinally extending filter material and a generally longitudinally extending strand within that filter material. A filter making unit receives a continuous supply of a filter material, and forms the filter material into a gathered composite having a continuous cylindrical shape. A continuous supply of a strand (e.g., colored thread) is provided and is introduced into the filter material gathered composite in the tongue of the filter making unit. The filter material and continuous strand positioned therein are formed into a continuous rod having the strand material laterally positioned within that rod, and the continuous rod is subdivided at pre-determined longitudinal intervals to provide a plurality of rod portions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08627825&OS=08627825&RS=08627825
owner: R.J. Reynolds Tobacco Company
number: 08627825
owner_city: Winston-Salem
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100415
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 461 941 filed Aug. 2 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 740 019 the contents of which are herein incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to apparatuses and methods for manufacturing smoking articles and components of smoking articles such as filter elements. In particular embodiments of the present invention relate to apparatuses and methods for inserting material within the filter material component that is used for the manufacture of a filter element for a smoking article such as a cigarette.

Popular smoking articles such as cigarettes have a substantially cylindrical rod shaped structure and include a charge roll or column of smokable material such as shredded tobacco e.g. in cut filler form surrounded by a paper wrapper thereby forming a so called smokable rod or tobacco rod. Normally a cigarette has a cylindrical filter element aligned in an end to end relationship with the tobacco rod. Typically a filter element comprises cellulose acetate tow plasticized using triacetin and the tow is circumscribed by a paper material known as plug wrap. A cigarette can incorporate a filter element having multiple segments and one of those segments can comprise activated charcoal particles. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 537 186 to Veluz PCT Publication No. WO 2006 064371 to Banerjea and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 226 932 filed Sep. 14 2005 to Coleman III et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference. Typically the filter element is attached to one end of the tobacco rod using a circumscribing wrapping material known as tipping paper. It also has become desirable to perforate the tipping material and plug wrap in order to provide dilution of drawn mainstream smoke with ambient air. Descriptions of cigarettes and the various components thereof are set forth Tobacco Production Chemistry and Technology Davis et al. Eds. 1999 . A cigarette is employed by a smoker by lighting one end thereof and burning the tobacco rod. The smoker then receives mainstream smoke into his her mouth by drawing on the opposite end e.g. the filter end of the cigarette.

Various attempts to alter the visual attributes of cigarettes have been proposed. For example there have been attempts to alter the color of the wrapping materials that provide the wrapping material of the tobacco rod e.g. cigarettes marketed under the trade name More by R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company possess cigarette rod wrapping papers exhibiting a brown color and tipping materials used to attach the tobacco rod to the filter element e.g. tipping materials have been printed so as to possess a cork appearance and or to possess at least one circumscribing ring . In addition there have been attempts to alter the appearance of the filter elements of cigarettes. See for example the types of cigarette filter element formats configurations and designs set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 596 663 to Schultz U.S. Pat. No. 4 508 525 to Berger U.S. Pat. No. 4 655 736 to Keith U.S. Pat. No. 4 726 385 to Chumney Jr. U.S. Pat. No. 4 807 809 to Pryor et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 025 814 to Raker each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The sensory attributes of cigarette smoke can be enhanced by applying additives to tobacco and or by otherwise incorporating flavoring materials into various components of a cigarette. See Leffingwell et al. Tobacco Flavoring for Smoking Products R. J. Reynolds Tobacco Company 1972 . For example one type of tobacco flavoring additive is menthol. See Borschke 19 p. 47 70 1993. Various proposed methods for modifying the sensory attributes of cigarettes include certain filter elements that may be used for adding flavor to the mainstream smoke of those cigarettes. U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2002 0166563 to Jupe et al. proposes the placement of adsorbent and flavor releasing materials in a cigarette filter. U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2002 0020420 to Xue et al. proposes the placement of fibers containing small particle size adsorbents absorbents in the filter. U.S. Pat. No. 4 941 486 to Dube et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 4 862 905 to Green Jr. et al. which are incorporated herein by reference propose manners and methods for the placement of a flavor containing pellet in each cigarette filter. Other representative types of cigarette filters incorporating flavoring agents are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 972 335 to Tiggelbeck et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 082 098 to Owens Jr. U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 671 to Bynre U.S. Pat. No. 4 729 391 to Woods et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 768 526 to Pryor U.S. Pat. No. 5 012 829 to Thesing et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 387 285 to Rivers and U.S. Pat. No. 7 074 170 to Lanier Jr. et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference. See also the types of cigarette filter technologies that are discussed in the background art section set forth in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2004 0261807 to Dube et al. which is incorporated herein by reference.

It would be highly desirable to provide a smoker with the ability to enhance his her smoking experience such as can be accomplished by providing a filtered cigarette possessing a filter element having particular design features. That is it would be desirable to provide a cigarette possessing filter components that are employed in a manner such that the filter element is aesthetically pleasing. It also would be desirable to provide such a filter element possessing selected design features that can be modified or otherwise controlled. In addition it would be desirable to provide a filter element for a cigarette that is capable of enhancing the sensory attributes of the mainstream smoke e.g. by flavoring the mainstream smoke produced by that cigarette.

The above and other needs are met by embodiments of the present invention which provide apparatuses and methods for manufacturing filter rods for use in the manufacture of smoking articles such as cigarettes. Filter rods are produced such that each such rod has a filament material e.g. at least one strand extending through its length. A continuous supply of filter material e.g. as is provided using a filter tow processing unit is provided to a continuous filter rod forming unit. Typically a plasticizer e.g. triacetin is applied to the filter material particularly when the filter material is cellulose acetate tow. The continuous rod forming unit possesses a garniture region for receiving filter material that has been fashioned into a generally cylindrical shape and either i for wrapping the continuous supply of gathered filter material so provided within a circumscribing web of plug wrap or ii for steam bonding the plasticized filter material. In addition a spool bobbin or other mechanism provides a continuous supply of strand like material e.g. colored thread can be supplied from a spool . That strand like material is introduced into the continuous supply of filter material as that filter material is introduced into the garniture region of the rod forming unit. In a preferred aspect a tube that acts as a guide for the continuous strand is configured and positioned so as to allow for feeding and positioning of that strand material into the filter material while that filter material is within the tongue region of the filter making unit. As such the filter material is formed into a continuous rod having a continuous strand extending longitudinally through that rod and generally parallel to the longitudinal axis of that rod. The continuous rod then is subdivided at predetermined longitudinal intervals so as to form a plurality of filter rods e.g. four up generally cylindrical filter rods each containing a strand that extends generally longitudinally therethrough .

Thus one aspect of the present invention relates to an apparatus for providing rods for use in the manufacture of cigarette filter elements each rod having a longitudinal axis and incorporating generally longitudinally extending filter material and a generally longitudinally extending strand within that filter material. Such an apparatus comprises a means for providing a continuous supply of filter material b means for forming the filter material into a gathered composite having a continuous rod like shape c means for supplying a continuous strand d means for introducing the continuous strand into the filter material gathered composite e means for forming the filter material and continuous strand positioned therewithin into a continuous rod having the strand material positioned within that rod and f means for subdividing the continuous rod at pre determined longitudinal intervals to provide a plurality of rods.

Another aspect of the present invention relates to a process for providing rods of the type set forth herein. Such a process involves a providing a continuous supply of filter material b forming the filter material into a gathered composite having a continuous rod like shape c supplying a continuous strand d introducing the continuous strand into the filter material gathered composite e forming the filter material and continuous strand positioned therewithin into a continuous rod having the strand material positioned within that rod and f subdividing the continuous rod at pre determined intervals to provide a plurality of rods.

A further aspect of the present invention comprises an apparatus for manufacturing a rod for a cigarette filter element wherein each rod defines a longitudinal axis and includes a generally longitudinally extending filter material and a generally longitudinally extending strand disposed within that filter material. Such an apparatus includes a rod forming unit configured to form a continuous supply of a filter material into a continuous cylindrical gathered composite. A strand insertion unit is configured to receive the gathered composite from the rod forming unit and to introduce a continuous strand of a filament material into the gathered composite such that the continuous strand is selectively laterally disposed within the gathered composite.

Still another aspect of the present invention comprises a method for manufacturing a rod for a cigarette filter element wherein each rod defines a longitudinal axis and includes a generally longitudinally extending filter material and a generally longitudinally extending strand disposed within that filter material. Such a method includes forming a continuous supply of a filter material into a continuous cylindrical gathered composite using a rod forming unit and introducing a continuous strand of a filament material into the gathered composite using a strand insertion unit such that the continuous strand is selectively laterally disposed within the gathered composite.

The present invention now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the inventions are shown. Indeed these inventions may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

Cigarette rods are manufactured using a cigarette making machine such as a conventional automated cigarette rod making machine. Exemplary cigarette rod making machines are of the type commercially available from Molins PLC or Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. For example cigarette rod making machines of the type known as MkX commercially available from Molins PLC or PROTOS commercially available from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG can be employed. A description of a PROTOS cigarette making machine is provided in U.S. Pat. No. 4 474 190 to Brand at col. 5 line 48 through col. 8 line 3 which is incorporated herein by reference. Types of equipment suitable for the manufacture of cigarettes also are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 781 203 to La Hue U.S. Pat. No. 4 844 100 to Holznagel U.S. Pat. No. 5 156 169 to Holmes et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 191 906 to Myracle Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 647 870 to Blau et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 848 449 to Kitao et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 904 917 to Kitao et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2003 0145866 to Hartman 2004 0129281 to Hancock et al. 2005 0039764 to Barnes et al. and 2005 0076929 to Fitzgerald et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The components and operation of conventional automated cigarette making machines will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette making machinery design and operation. For example descriptions of the components and operation of several types of chimneys tobacco filler supply equipment suction conveyor systems and garniture systems are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 288 147 to Molins et al. U.S. Pat. No. 3 915 176 to Heitmann et al U.S. Pat. No. 4 291 713 to Frank U.S. Pat. No. 4 574 816 to Rudszinat U.S. Pat. No. 4 736 754 to Heitmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 878 506 to Pinck et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 060 665 to Heitmann U.S. Pat. No. 5 012 823 to Keritsis et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 360 751 to Fagg et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2003 0136419 to Muller each of which is incorporated herein by reference. The automated cigarette making machines of the type set forth herein provide a formed continuous cigarette rod or smokable rod that can be subdivided into formed smokable rods of desired lengths.

Filtered cigarettes incorporating filter elements provided from filter rods that are produced in accordance with the present invention can be manufactured using traditional types of cigarette making techniques. For example so called six up filter rods four up filter rods and two up filter rods that are of the general format and configuration conventionally used for the manufacture of filtered cigarettes can be handled using conventional type or suitably modified cigarette rod handling devices such as tipping devices available as Lab MAX MAX MAX S or MAX 80 from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. See for example the types of devices set forth in U.S. Pat. No. U.S. Pat. No. 3 308 600 to Erdmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 670 to Heitmann et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 280 187 to Reuland et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 229 115 to Vos et al. and U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2005 0103355 to Holmes and 2005 1094014 to Read Jr. each of which is incorporated herein by reference. The operation of those types of devices will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of automated cigarette manufacture.

Cigarette filter rods that are produced in accordance with the present invention can be used to provide multi segment filter rods. Such multi segment filter rods can be employed for the production of filtered cigarettes possessing multi segment filter elements. An example of a two segment filter element is a filter element possessing a first cylindrical segment incorporating activated charcoal particles e.g. a dalmation type of filter segment at one end and a second cylindrical segment that is produced from a filter rod produced in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The production of multi segment filter rods can be carried out using the types of rod forming units that have been employed to provide multi segment cigarette filter components. Multi segment cigarette filter rods can be manufactured using a cigarette filter rod making device available under the brand name Mulfi from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG of Hamburg Germany.

Various types of cigarette components including tobacco types tobacco blends top dressing and casing materials blend packing densities types of paper wrapping materials for tobacco rods types of tipping materials and levels of air dilution can be employed. See for example the various representative types of cigarette components as well as the various cigarette designs formats configurations and characteristics that are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 5 220 930 to Gentry and U.S. Pat. No. 6 779 530 to Kraker U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2005 0016556 to Ashcraft et al. and 2005 0066986 to Nestor et al. and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 375 700 filed Mar. 14 2006 to Thomas et al. and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 408 625 filed Apr. 21 2006 to Oglesby each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

Filter rods can be manufactured pursuant to embodiments of the present invention using a rod making apparatus and an exemplary rod making apparatus includes a rod forming unit. Representative rod forming units are available as KDF 2 and KDF 3E from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG and as Polaris ITM Filter Maker from International Tobacco Machinery. Filter material such as cellulose acetate filamentary tow typically is processed using a conventional filter tow processing unit. For example filter tow can be bloomed using bussel jet methodologies or threaded roll methodologies. An exemplary tow processing unit has been commercially available as E 60 supplied by Arjay Equipment Corp. Winston Salem N.C. Other exemplary tow processing units have been commercially available as AF 2 AF 3 and AF 4 from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. and as Candor ITM Tow Processor from International Tobacco Machinery. Other types of commercially available tow processing equipment as are known to those of ordinary skill in the art can be employed. Other types of filter materials such as gathered paper nonwoven polypropylene web or gathered strands of shredded web can be provided using the types of materials equipment and techniques set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 807 809 to Pryor et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 025 814 to Raker. In addition representative manners and methods for operating a filter material supply units and filter making units are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 281 671 to Bynre U.S. Pat. No. 4 850 301 to Green Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 862 905 to Green Jr. et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 060 664 to Siems et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 387 285 to Rivers and U.S. Pat. No. 7 074 170 to Lanier Jr. et al.

During use of a filter making apparatus a continuous length or web of filter material is supplied from a source such as a storage bale bobbin or the like. The continuous length of filter material is pulled through a gathering region of the rod forming unit. The gathering region can have a tongue and horn configuration a gathering funnel configuration a stuffer or transport jet configuration or other suitable types or combinations of gathering mechanisms. A tongue provides for further gathering compaction conversion or formation of a cylindrical composite of filter material into an essentially cylindrical i.e. rod like shape whereby the continuously extending strands or filaments of the filter material extend essentially along the longitudinal axis of the cylinder so formed.

The filter material that has been compressed into a cylindrical composite is received further into a garniture region. That is the cylindrical composite is fed into a wrapping mechanism which includes an endless garniture conveyer belt. The garniture conveyer belt is continuously and longitudinally advanced using an advancing mechanism not shown such as a ribbon wheel or cooperating drum so as to transport the cylindrical composite through the wrapping mechanism. The wrapping mechanism provides and applies a strip of wrapping material such as a web of porous or non porous paper plug wrap to the outer surface of the cylindrical composite in order to produce continuous wrapped rod.

The strip or web of wrapping material is provided from rotatable bobbin or other suitable source. The wrapping material is drawn from the bobbin is trained over a series of guide rollers and enters the wrapping mechanism of the rod forming unit. The endless garniture conveyer belt transports both the strip of wrapping material and the cylindrical composite downstream in a longitudinally extending manner through the wrapping mechanism while draping or enveloping the wrapping material about the cylindrical composite.

The seam formed by an overlapping marginal portion of wrapping material has adhesive e.g. hot melt adhesive applied thereto at applicator region in order that the wrapping material can form a tubular container for the filter material. Alternatively the hot melt adhesive may be applied directly upstream of the wrapping material s entry into the garniture region of the wrapping mechanism The adhesive can be cooled using a chill bar in order to cause rapid setting of the adhesive. It is understood that various other sealing mechanisms and other types of adhesives can be employed in providing the continuous wrapped rod. As such there is provided a manner or method for supplying a continuous supply of plug wrap circumscribing the longitudinal periphery of a continuous supplied filter material gathered composite and hence forming a continuous filter rod circumscribed by plug wrap.

The continuous wrapped rod passes from the sealing mechanism and is subdivided e.g. severed at regular intervals at the desired predetermined length using a cutting assembly which includes as a rotary cutter a highly sharpened knife or other suitable rod cutting or subdividing mechanism. It is particularly desirable that the cutting assembly does not flatten or otherwise adversely affect the cross sectional shape of the rod. As such the filter material supplied to a filter making unit is formed into a continuous rod which is subdivided using a rod cutting assembly into a plurality of filter rods or rod portions. The succession or plurality of rod portions are collected for further use using a tray a rotary collection drum conveying system or the other suitable collection mechanism. If desired the rod portions can be transported directly to a cigarette making machine. In such a manner a continuous rod can be manufactured at a rate of greater than about 200 meters per minute often greater than about 300 meter per minute and frequently greater than about 400 meters per minute.

Referring to there is shown a portion of a rod making unit such as a portion of a rod forming unit available as KDF 2 from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. The rod forming unit is equipped with a strand insertion unit which is suitably adapted to provide for placement of continuous strand of material such as a filament material within a continuous length of filter material not shown . The representative rod making unit is arranged so that the filter material is fed into the tongue from a stuffer jet device .

For the embodiment shown an optional though preferred flavor injection port is positioned in the filter material gathering region of the rod forming unit . For example a flavor injection system is located so as to provide for injection of a flavor formulation into the tongue of the rod forming unit. Associated flavor formulation supply tubes flavor reservoirs pumping mechanisms and formulation metering systems for the flavor injection system are not shown. A representative flavor injection system is set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 5 387 285 to Rivers. An exemplary flavor formulation is composed of a mixture of menthol and propylene glycol.

For the embodiment shown components of the strand insertion unit also are positioned in the filter material gathering region of the rod forming unit . The strand insertion unit possesses an insertion tube that extends through the tongue in a region downstream from the flavor injection system . If desired for an embodiment not shown the insertion tube and flavor injection system each can be similarly configured but the strand insertion tube can be positioned upstream of the flavor injection system.

The stand insertion unit also possesses a spool bobbin or other mechanism for providing a continuous supply of strand like filament material e.g. thread can be supplied from a spool . The strand passes through a series of guides and through the insertion tube . The spool can be located and supported on a spool support base positioned on and most preferably secured to an appropriate region the frame region of the rod forming unit . For example the hollow core of the spool can be supported on an upwardly extending axle type member. Alternatively for an embodiment not shown the spool can be positioned on a separate stand or base. As such the spool can be maintained securely in position and the strand can be readily removed therefrom during operation of the rod making unit. Similarly the various guides can be located and supported on a guide support base positioned on and most preferably secured to an appropriate region the frame region of the rod forming unit . Alternatively for an embodiment not shown the spool can be positioned on a separate stand or base. As such the strand can be removed from the spool at an appropriate rate and effectively guided through the insertion tube during operation of the rod making unit.

During use the filter material not shown such as plasticized cellulose acetate tow is fed into the stuffer jet and then passes into the tongue . The flavoring agent optionally though preferably is applied to the filter material that enters the tongue. Downstream therefrom the continuous strand is introduced into the filter material through the insertion tube in the tongue . As the filter material and strand pass downstream through the rod forming unit a continuous filter rod not shown is formed.

Referring to a representative strand insertion unit possesses a spool that supplies a continuous length or strand of the filament material e.g. thread through a eyelet type of guide through a 3 hole thread guide type of guide around a roll guide e.g. a roll guide of the general type used to convey a continuous paper web in commercial cigarette component manufacturing operations through another 3 hole type of guide through another eyelet type guide and ultimately through the strand insertion tube not shown . The various guides are located on and appropriately secured to the guide support base . For the embodiment shown the guide base extends in a generally vertical direction and the guides each extend in a generally horizontal direction. However other types or configurations of guide mechanisms numbers of guides and strand pathways can be employed and alternative designs will be apparent to those skilled in the art of continuous supply and transport of a strand of a filament material such as thread. It is preferable that the guide located nearest the strand insertion tube be adjustable e.g. up down back forth side to side in order that the strand can be efficiently and effectively directed into the strand insertion tube.

Most preferably the strand insertion unit possesses an electronic sensing or monitoring system that is designed to ensure that strand is being provided from the spool to desired locations downstream in the filter making system. A representative monitoring system is provided by mounting a fiber optic sensor head e.g. a sensor head available as FU 68 from Keyence Corporation near the roll guide . As such the sensor head can sense rotational movement of the roll guide as the strand that is wrapped around that roll guide provides rotation of that roll guide during movement of that strand. Typically a pin or other appropriate timing mark located on a rotational portion of the roll guide can provide suitable information for detection by a stationary mounted sensor head . The sensor head can be connected e.g. using appropriate wiring to a photosensor not shown that can be in turn connected to a programmable logic controller PLC not shown . The PLC can be in turn connected to the electronic control system of the rod making unit. A representative photosensor is available as FS 2 60 from Keyence Corporation and a representative PLC is available as KV 10R from Keyence Corporation. The resulting system can be appropriately programmed so that when the rotational movement of the roll guide ceases e.g. as a result of the continuous strand being broken the monitoring system can sense that change in the operation of strand insertion unit and the operation of the rod making unit can be shut down. As such manufacture of filter rods possessing strands therein can be assured.

Referring to there is shown a tongue and in particular an upstream portion of a so called two piece tongue. A representative two piece tongue is available as Part No. 132DF3002 from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. At the upstream end of the tongue is located a flavor insertion port . Downstream from the flavor insertion unit is the insertion tube for insertion of a strand not shown into the filter material not shown . Toward the lower end of the insertion tube is a tube mounting bracket which most preferably possesses positioning screws or other mechanism for adjusting the positioning of the strand in a pre determined location within the filter material gathered composite. That is the positioning of tube within the tongue can be selected within the horizontal plane so as to provide from placement of the strand at a desired longitudinal location within the filter material passing through the tongue and as such placement of the opening in the top face of the tongue for the insertion tube can be selected e.g. so as to be within the center longitudinal region of the filter material gathered composite from a horizontal perspective . In addition positioning of the tube can be readily controlled in a vertical manner by adjustment of the positioning screws e.g. so as to provide the strand material in the center region of the filter material gathered composite or laterally with respect to the cross section of the filter material gathered composite from a vertical perspective .

Referring to there is shown a cross sectional view of the tongue described previously with reference to . The flavor injection port extends downward into the tongue and as such its lower region extends into the path of travel of the filter material not shown . As such flavoring agent is injected into the filter material in flavor application region of the flavor insertion port. The insertion tube supported by a tube mounting bracket extends through an opening in the tongue. A representative opening for an insertion tube having a generally circular outer cross sectional shape is generally circular in shape and can be drilled formed or otherwise fashioned within the tongue. The insertion tube is movable in the opening and the tube mounting bracket is connected to the frame of the flavor injection port e.g. using screws spot welds adhesive or other suitable fastening mechanism or in an appropriate location elsewhere within that region of the rod forming unit. The extreme downstream end of the insertion tube is positioned generally in the center region in the path of travel of the filter material. For the embodiment shown the extreme downstream face of the flavor insertion unit within the path of travel is about 4 mm to about 6 mm from the extreme upstream face of the insertion tube. As such there is shown a tongue possessing i a first entrance or first receiving port at one end for receiving the filter material and an exit or discharge port at the other end for discharge of a filter material gathered composite incorporating generally longitudinally extending filter material and generally longitudinally extending continuous strand ii a second entrance or second receiving port physically separate from the first entrance and located toward the exit of the tongue for introducing the strand into the filter material and iii an optional third entrance or third receiving port physically separate from both the first and second entrances and located between the first and second entrances for introducing flavoring agent into the filter material gathered composite.

Referring to there is shown a cross sectional view of the tongue and in particular a so called one piece tongue. A representative one piece tongue is available as Part No. 132DF3003F from Hauni Werke Korber Co. KG. The flavor insertion unit extends downward into the tongue and as such its lower region extends into the path of travel of the filter material not shown . As such flavoring agent is injected into the filter material in the application region of the flavor insertion unit. The insertion tube supported by the tube mounting bracket extends through on opening in the tongue. The extreme downstream end of the insertion tube is positioned generally in the center region with respect to cross section of the filter material in the path of travel of the filter material. For the embodiment shown the extreme downstream face of the flavor insertion unit within the path of travel is about 4 mm to about 6 mm from the extreme upstream face of the insertion tube.

The insertion tube can vary. Typically the insertion tube is manufactured from a metallic material such as stainless steel or the like. Typically the length of the insertion tube ranges from about 40 to about 60 mm although longer or shorter insertion tube designs can be employed. Typically the inner diameter of a representative insertion tube having a generally circular cross section such as one designed for insertion of a strand of a string or thread into a filter material is about 2 to about 2.8 mm often about 2.2 to about 2.5 mm and the outer diameter of such a representative tube having a generally circular cross section is about 3 mm to about 4 mm The cross sectional shape of the outer portion of the tube and or of the inner passageway of the tube can be modified if desired. For example the outer portion of the tube can be fashioned so as to possess a plow like shape that is a narrower width at its upstream face and a wider width at its downstream face. The inner passageway of the tube can be modified for example to possess an oval cross sectional shape or any other suitable shape about the extreme downstream end of the insertion tube .

The tube is configured so as to define a path of travel of the strand. That is the tongue provides a path of travel of the filter material gathered composite while the tube is configured so as to define passage of travel of the strand into the gathered composite by extending into the path of travel of the gathered composite. That is the strand is discharged from the tube according to the angle of orientation thereof i.e. the strand is vertically discharged into the gathered composite from a vertically oriented tube . Once discharged from the tube the strand engages the gathered composite at the selected lateral disposition therein and is thus continuously fed into and travels downstream with the longitudinally proceeding gathered composite. The disposition of the tube in the tongue relative to vertical can be altered by loosening the attachment screws or other fastening mechanism adjusting the insertion tube in the vertical plane e.g. up and down by hand and tightening the screws or otherwise providing secure positioning of the insertion tube . In some instances the tube may also be adjustable with respect to the angle thereof with respect to the path of travel of the filter material gathered composite. That is the tube may be adjustable to form an acute angle i.e. greater than 0 and less than 90 with respect to the path of travel of the filter material gathered composite i.e. inclined upstream or inclined downstream . In some instances in order to facilitate the introduction of the strand into the gathered composite the extreme downstream end of the insertion tube may be configured to be at least one of arcuately shaped smooth beaded rounded radiused chamfered plow shaped and combination thereof so as to facilitate transition of the orientation of the strand from the discharge orientation upon discharge from the tube to the orientation of the path of travel of the gathered composite. In other optional instances the insertion tube may be configured such that the strand is introduced into the gather composite for example at a slightly slower rate than the advancement rate of the gathered composite along its path of travels where in such instances the difference in rates may provide for example a tension in the strand as it is introduced into the gathered composite.

In a preferred embodiment the tongue possesses a first entrance at one end for filter material and an exit at the other end for a filter material gathered composite incorporating the generally longitudinally extending filter material and the generally longitudinally extending continuous strand. The entrance and exit each allow for a path of travel of the filter material in a generally horizontal plane. The second entrance physically separate from the first entrance and located toward the exit of the tongue is adapted for introduction of the strand into the filter material. The second entrance provides for a path of travel of the strand into the filter material in and from a generally vertical plane. The third entrance physically separate from both the first and second entrances and located between the first and second entrances is adapted to provide injection of flavoring agent into the filter material. Preferably the flavor injection system extends into the path of travel of the filter material and acts as a type of plow or mechanism for separating or creating a channel in the filter material gathered composite. The third entrance is located in generally vertical plane. In such an embodiment the second and third entrances of the tongue preferably have the form of openings through the upper face.

The filter material can vary and can be any material of the type that can be employed for providing a tobacco smoke filter for cigarettes. Preferably a traditional cigarette filter material is used such as cellulose acetate tow gathered cellulose acetate web polypropylene tow gathered cellulose acetate web gathered paper strands of reconstituted tobacco or the like. Especially preferred is filamentary tow such as cellulose acetate polyolefin material such as polypropylene or the like. One filter material that can provide a suitable filter rod is cellulose acetate tow having 3 denier per filament and 40 000 total denier. As another example cellulose acetate tow having 3 denier per filament and 35 000 total denier can provide a suitable filter rod. As another example cellulose acetate tow having 8 denier per filament and 40 000 total denier can provide a suitable filter rod. For further examples see the types of filter materials set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 3 424 172 to Neurath U.S. Pat. No. 4 811 745 to Cohen et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 925 602 to Hill et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 225 277 to Takegawa et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 271 419 to Arzonico et al. each of which is incorporated herein by reference. Typically filamentary filter materials used for cigarette filter rod manufacture are generally white in color. However if desired filamentary filter materials of other colors can be employed. In some instances the color of the filamentary filter material may correspond to the nature of the smoke modifying agent such as the flavoring agent applied thereto by the flavor injection system e.g. a red color corresponding to a cinnamon flavor a green color corresponding to a menthol flavor a black color corresponding to a licorice flavor or the like .

Normally a plasticizer such as triacetin is applied to the filamentary tow in traditional amounts using known techniques. Other suitable materials or additives used in connection with the construction of the filter element will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art of cigarette filter design and manufacture.

The material from which the strand is manufactured can vary. Exemplary strands filament materials can be manufactured from woven natural fiber e.g. cotton woven synthetic fiber e.g. nylon polyester or cellulose acetate extruded material e.g. polyethylene or the like. Preferred strand materials are woven materials such as those that can be characterized as string thread or yarn. The strand material can act as a carrier for a material that can be used to alter the behavior of the mainstream smoke that passes through a filter element incorporating that strand e.g. the strand can act as a carrier for a smoke modifying agent such as a flavoring agent . Alternatively the strand material when incorporated into the filter rod does not to any appreciable degree act as a carrier for a smoke modifying agent i.e. the strand material as provided from the spool is virtually devoid of added flavoring agent and does not act as a smoke modifying agent . If desired the strand material optionally can be removed from its spool passed through a flavoring agent applicator system e.g. passed through a bath of flavoring agent and liquid carrier or sprayed with a mist of flavoring agent and liquid carrier prior to being introduced into the filter material cylindrical composite. In other instances the strand material can be configured to absorb or wick a flavoring agent from surrounding material such as the filter material once the strand is introduced into the filter material cylindrical composite. The strand material also possesses appropriate physical properties such as pliability tensile strength and the like. Exemplary thread is available from Service Thread Manufacturing Co. as Product Number M 04 01 COTN WHT OENF 4.25 . Such a type of thread can be treated with dyes or other coloring agents of the desired type in order to provide a thread of the desired color.

In one embodiment the strand material is different in composition from the filter material. For example the filter material can be composed of cellulose acetate filter tow and the strand can be composed of cotton thread. In another embodiment the strand material can be differentiated from the filter material e.g. the two materials can differ in appearance such as color . For example the filter material can be composed of white cellulose acetate filter tow and the strand can be composed of cellulose acetate nylon or cotton thread that is dyed or otherwise colored a different color e.g. green blue red brown black or the like . In some instances the color of the strand material may correspond to the nature of the smoke modifying agent such as the flavoring agent applied to the filter material by the flavor injection system e.g. a red color corresponding to a cinnamon flavor a green color corresponding to a menthol flavor a black color corresponding to a licorice flavor or the like .

Filter rods generally can be further longitudinally subdivided into cylindrical shaped filter elements using techniques as are known by the skilled artisan familiar with conventional cigarette manufacturing. Rod sizes for use in the manufacture of filter elements for cigarettes can vary but typically range in length from about 80 mm to about 140 mm and from about 16 mm to about 27 mm in circumference. For example a typical rod having a 100 mm length and a 24.53 mm circumference exhibits a pressure drop of from about 200 mm to about 400 mm of water as determined at an airflow rate of 17.5 cc sec. using an encapsulated pressure drop tester sold commercially as Model No. FTS 300 by Filtrona Corporation Richmond Va.

The plug wrap can vary. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 4 174 719 to Martin. Typically the plug wrap is a porous or non porous paper material. Suitable plug wrap materials are commercially available. Exemplary plug wrap papers ranging in porosity from about 1100 CORESTA units to about 26000 CORESTA units are available from Schweitzer Maudit International as Porowrap 17 M1 33 M1 45 M1 70 M9 95 M9 150 M4 150 M9 240M9S 260 M4 and 260 M4T and from Miquel y Costas as 22HP90 and 22HP150. Non porous plug wrap materials typically exhibit porosities of less than about 40 CORESTA units and often less than about 20 CORESTA units. Exemplary non porous plug wrap papers are available from Olsany Facility OP Paprina of the Czech Republic as PW646 Wattenspapier of Austria as FY 33060 Miquel y Costas of Spain as 646 and Schweitzer Mauduit International as MR650 and 180. Plug wrap paper can be coated particularly on the surface that faces the filter material with a layer of a film forming material. Such a coating can be provided using a suitable polymeric film forming agent e.g. ethylcellulose ethylcellulose mixed with calcium carbonate nitrocellulose nitrocellulose mixed with calcium carbonate or a so called lip release coating composition of the type commonly employed for cigarette manufacture . Alternatively a plastic film e.g. a polypropylene film can be used as a plug wrap material. For example non porous polypropylene materials that are available as ZNA 20 and ZNA 25 from Treofan Germany GmbH Co. KG can be employed as plug wrap materials.

If desired so called non wrapped acetate filter rods possessing a strand material extending generally longitudinally therethrough also can be produced. Such rods are produced using the types of techniques generally set forth herein. However rather than employing a plug wrap material that circumscribes the longitudinally extending periphery of the filter rod a somewhat rigid rod is provided by plasticizing the cellulose acetate tow and applying steam to that gathered tow. Techniques for commercially manufacturing non wrapped acetate filter rods are possessed by Filtrona Corporation Richmond Va. The rod making unit employed to manufacture those types of filter rods can be suitably adapted to possess the type of strand insertion unit set forth herein.

A filter element produced from a filter rod may have a generally cylindrical shape and the diameter thereof may be essentially equal to the diameter of the tobacco rod with which it is intended to be aligned. The ends of the filter element permit the passage of air and smoke therethrough. The filter element includes filter material e.g. cellulose acetate tow impregnated with triacetin plasticizer that is over wrapped along the longitudinally extending surface thereof with circumscribing plug wrap material. That is the filter element is circumscribed along its outer circumference or longitudinal periphery by a layer of plug wrap and each end is open to expose the filter material.

A representative filter element typically possesses a predetermined number of strands at predetermined positions therein. For example the number of strands longitudinally extending through the filter element can number 1 2 or 3. A plurality of strands can be incorporated within a filter element by suitably adapting the previously described strand insertion unit to provide a plurality of strands from a plurality of spools through a single appropriately modified strand insertion tube. Alternatively a plurality of strands can be incorporated within a filter element by suitably adapting the previously described strand insertion unit to provide a plurality of strands from a plurality of spools through an appropriate number plurality of strand insertion tubes.

Preferably for a filter element having a generally circular cross sectional shape that filter element contains a single strand positioned therein wherein that strand is centrally located within the filter element e.g. the strand is located in the center of the cross section of the filter element . An exemplary filter element preferably contains one strand having a generally circular cross sectional shape and that strand has diameter of at least about 0.5 mm typically at least about 0.75 mm and often at least about 1 mm. Typically that strand has a diameter that does not exceed about 2.5 mm often do not exceed about 2 mm and frequently do not exceed about 1.5 mm. Certain preferred strands are generally circular in cross sectional shape and have diameters in the range of about 0.5 mm to about 2 mm in diameter and certain highly preferred strands are about 0.75 mm to about 1.25 mm in diameter. In addition strands can possess cross sectional shapes other than circular. For example strands can possess cross section shapes that can be considered to be oval square rectangular triangular hexagonal octagonal star shaped or the like. Typically the minimum and maximum cross sectional widths of those strands are comparable to those diameters set forth hereinbefore for those strands that are circular in cross sectional shape. Preferably the strand material is disposed within the filter material of the filter element particularly towards the central lateral region of the filter element. Most preferably the nature of the filter material is such that the strand is secured or lodged in place within the filter element.

For a typical dual segment filter element the extreme mouth end segment having a filter segment possessing the strand typically has a length of about 15 mm to about 30 mm and the filter segment adjacent to the tobacco rod has a length of about 5 mm to about 15 mm most preferably about 10 mm Preferred dual segment filter elements have overall lengths of about 25 mm to about 35 mm.

The first segment most preferably is a generally cylindrically shaped filter segment. The first segment most preferably is manufactured using a traditional cigarette filter material such as cellulose acetate tow gathered cellulose acetate web polypropylene tow gathered polypropylene web gathered cellulose acetate web gathered paper strands of reconstituted tobacco or the like. Exemplary cigarette filter segments for multi component cigarette filters are set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 920 990 to Lawrence et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 012 829 to Thesing et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 025 814 to Raker U.S. Pat. No. 5 074 320 to Jones et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 105 838 to White et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 271 419 to Arzonico et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 360 023 to Blakley et al. which are incorporated herein by reference. Carbonaceous material such as activated charcoal particles also can be incorporated into that filter segment.

Other types of cigarettes possessing multi component filters also can be used to incorporate those types of strand containing filter segments representative of embodiments of the present invention. That is cigarettes can possess multi component filter elements having other types of formats and configurations. For example a two segment filter element can have one segment possessing a strand and that segment can be positioned between the tobacco rod and the extreme mouth end filter segment. As another example a three segment filter element can have one segment possessing a strand and that segment can be positioned immediately adjacent the tobacco rod at the extreme mouth end of the cigarette or as the middle filter segment between the tobacco end filter segment and the mouth end filter segment. Strand containing filter segments made according to the methods of embodiments of the present invention can be incorporated into the multi component filter of cigarettes of the type set forth in U.S. Pat. No. U.S. Pat. No. 5 360 023 to Blakley U.S. Pat. No. 5 396 909 to Gentry et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 718 250 to Banerjee et al U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2002 0166563 to Jupe et al. 2004 0261807 to Dube et al. and 2005 0066981 to Crooks et al. and PCT Publication No. WO 03 047836 to Xue et al. which are incorporated herein by reference. See also the representative types of filter elements set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 4 046 063 to Berger U.S. Pat. No. 4 064 791 to Berger U.S. Pat. No. 4 075 936 to Berger U.S. Pat. No. 4 357 950 to Berger and U.S. Pat. No. 4 508 525 to Berger which are incorporated herein by reference. For example the types of objects set forth as cigarette filter components in U.S. Patent Application Publication Nos. 2004 0261807 to Dube et al. 2005 0066981 to Crooks et al. and 2005 0070409 to Deal and PCT Publication No. WO 03 009711 to Kim which are incorporated herein by reference can be replaced with the types of objects set forth herein.

Many modifications and other embodiments of the invention will come to mind to one skilled in the art to which this invention pertains having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing description and it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that variations and modifications of the present invention can be made without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the specific embodiments disclosed and that modifications and other embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

