---

title: Method and apparatus for providing a trust level to access a resource
abstract: An approach is provided for providing a trust level to access a resource. A system receives a request at a device, from a first user, to access a resource associated with a second user. The resource is further associated with a predetermined privacy level. The system calculates a trust level between the first user and the second user based, at least in part, on a trust metric. The system then determines whether the trust level meets the predetermined privacy level and grants an access right to the resource based, at least in part, on the determination.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09319390&OS=09319390&RS=09319390
owner: NOKIA TECHNOLOGIES OY
number: 09319390
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20100326
---
Service providers e.g. wireless cellular etc. and device manufacturers are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. One area of interest has been the development of social networking services and other services for making connections and sharing content or resources among users. The totality of these connections and relationships among users are commonly known as social graphs. For example a social graph can be created on a user by user basis to represent links created by a particular user over one or more social networking services. However because social networking services often make it very easy for a user to create such connections a user s social graph can expand quickly from a core group of close friends to a much larger and potentially cumbersome group e.g. a group that includes friends of friends minor acquaintances or even complete strangers . The increase in the complexity and extent of social graphs e.g. in one or more social networking services makes it much more difficult to control access to shared resources and content to protect privacy and ensure that only trusted friends have appropriate access. Accordingly service providers and device manufacturers face significant technical challenges to enabling users to manage the privacy of shared resources and content as the user s community of social networking friends rapidly grows.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for efficiently providing trust levels to guide the sharing of resources e.g. content shared over one or more social networking services .

According to one embodiment a method comprises receiving a request at a device from a first user to access a resource associated with a second user. The resource further associated with a predetermined privacy level. The method also comprises calculating a trust level between the first user and the second user based at least in part on a trust metric. The method further comprises determining whether the trust level meets the predetermined privacy level. The method further comprises granting an access right to the resource based at least in part on the determination.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprising at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to receive a request at a device from a first user to access a resource associated with a second user. The resource further associated with a predetermined privacy level. The apparatus is also caused to calculate a trust level between the first user and the second user based at least in part on a trust metric. The apparatus is further caused to determine whether the trust level meets the predetermined privacy level. The apparatus is further caused to grant an access right to the resource based at least in part on the determination.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to receive a request at a device from a first user to access a resource associated with a second user. The resource further associated with a predetermined privacy level. The apparatus is also caused to calculate a trust level between the first user and the second user based at least in part on a trust metric. The apparatus is further caused to determine whether the trust level meets the predetermined privacy level. The apparatus is further caused to grant an access right to the resource based at least in part on the determination.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for retrieving a social graph identifying people associated with a user. The apparatus also comprises means for retrieving a communication history from a device associated with the user. The apparatus further comprises means for determining information regarding a respective occurrence of each identified person in the communication history. The apparatus further comprises means for generating a relevant social graph based at least in part on the determined occurrence information.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for providing a trust level to access a resource are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

As a user s circle of social networking contacts grow it is becoming difficult to view messages from people on the user s social graph. Further it is becoming difficult to manage the additions to the user s social graph as well as manage the privacy of status information shared content and resources and other similar social networking activities. Traditionally users manually set and manage the visibility and access to shared resources and content. For example users can generally identify whether or not some particular content or resource should be shared with a specific group of friends. This manual process however is primarily suitable for handling relatively small amounts shared content and or relatively small amounts of social networking contacts. For example if the amount of content to be shared and or the number of other users with whom the user can share such content increases the burden on the user to maintain such a system is potentially crippling.

Moreover traditional access control schemes generally are limited in how access is granted to the shared content or resources. More specifically users often have to decide and set the visibility of personal content manually by either one or two options e.g. permit or deny access . Additionally in most cases if a direct friendship does not exist only a quite limited amount of information can be shared by the users.

To address this problem a system of introduces the capability to automatically and intelligently manage access control to shared content and resources of social networks by for instance evaluating trust levels based on available trust paths between friends.

In one embodiment the system also visualizes the relationship among friends which advantageously helps users to adjust and manage access rights in one or more social networks. More specifically relies on existing trust relationships among friends to extrapolate trust relationships among the users. In one embodiment the system relies on the transitive property of trust relationships to infer trust levels between users who do not have a direct or existing relationship. By way of example if user A trusts user B and user B also trusts user C the systems infers that user A also trusts user C to some extent. In other words the system identifies a trust path running from user A to user B to user C and calculates a trust level among any subgroup of the users using any metric or measure of trust even though there is no predefined or direct relation between user A and user C.

In certain embodiments the system calculates the trust levels for inferred relationships according to one or more rules. For example in one embodiment the trust values decay or diminish when it transfers along the trust path. In the example above for instance the trust level between user A and user B is higher than the trust level between user A and user C because there is a higher degree of separation between user A and user C along the trust path. It is contemplated that the reduction or decay in trust levels can be constant e.g. a specific reduction for each link in the path or non constant e.g. have in greater reduction for more distant nodes or users in the trust path .

In another embodiment a rule requires that if user A wants to access a resource of user C and there is no direct relationship between the users there should be at least one trust path from user A to user C e.g. through user B . If there is no path the system cannot automatically provide or grant access for user A to access the shared resource of user C.

It is noted that trust values among the users or nodes are important factors for deciding whether a particular user has a sufficient trust level and or enough rights to access a requested resource. Moreover there can be many paths from a user to a requested resource. For example there may be many common friends in a social graph that includes the requesting user and the sharing user along which multiple trust paths can run. In one embodiment different trust paths can result in difference access rights based on the calculated trust level along the path. If one trust path does not provide a sufficient level of trust to access a shared resource the system can suggest alternate paths that can potentially achieved the required trust level.

In yet another embodiment the system can collect or maintain access logs about who accesses or visits a particular user or shared resource of the user. The system can then analyze the log and advise the sharing user on how best to adjust privacy settings to control access. In this way the system can advantageously optimize both the trust levels of users who access a shared resource and the privacy settings for the shared resource to reduce the burden on the user for manually specifying such settings.

As shown in user equipment UEs may be utilized to present social networking applications . These social networking applications can utilize a communication network to communicate to one or more social networking platforms . The social networking platforms can store user information content and other resources in a user database for sharing with other users or friends. Examples of social networking platforms include social networking websites and services e.g. Facebook Twitter MySpace etc. as well as other computing devices e.g. a server to coordinate communications between UEs such as a chatting service . The user information may include user profiles of users one or more social graphs of the user as well as associations e.g. trust levels with other users. Further the user information may additionally include updates from the user and other users e.g. friends media content e.g. images video audio etc. communications game content etc.

As previously noted the social networking application may be utilized by the UE to provide social networking services to the user. Other applications e.g. a messaging application communication history application contacts application etc. may be utilized to communicate via the UE with other people. In one embodiment these people may be associated with unique identifiers e.g. e mail address messaging alias identifier phone number address etc. . As such the UE can store the identifiers as associated with particular communications in for instance a communication history or access log. With these identifiers the social networking application can query social networking platforms to determine if the contacts are part of respective social networking services. For example the social networking application can utilize an application programming interface API of the social networking platforms to determine if the person associated with the communications is a member of the social networking service or services. As part of the query the user may provide a user name and or password for social networking services to access the social connection information e.g. the social graph within the respective services.

By way of example the social networking platform retrieves and checks a communication history of the UE to determine one or more occurrences of communications between the user and other users. In certain embodiments contact information for a person may be stored in a contact database e.g. a phonebook database contact list etc. and used as part of the trust calculation for the respective contact. As such the communications using different modes of communication e.g. e mail phone call chat message SMS etc. can be correlated to determine repeating occurrences of communication between the user and other people e.g. repeated communications can be at least one metric of a trust relationship . In certain embodiments repeat occurrences above a certain threshold number of occurrences can be utilized to trigger and increase the trust level between two users. In this way the person s contact information is utilized to query the social networking services to determine whether that person is part of the user s social graph and should have more access rights to shared content. The social graph for instance can be specific to each social networking service to which the user belongs. Further if the person is not part of the user s social graph for the particular social networking service the social networking application can add the user to the user s social networking graph for the service after for instance calculating trust levels between the person and the user from common friends or contacts in the social graph. In one embodiment if the person is a member of the social networking service the user can invite the person to be a member of the user s social graph. If the person lacks membership to the social networking service the social networking application can send an invitation to the person to join the social networking service via one of modes of communication e.g. e mail .

In certain embodiments the social networking application may access social graphs associated with the user. The social graphs can be tied to individual social networking services be a combination of graphs of multiple social networking services be tied to contacts associated with the user without a social networking service or a combination thereof. The social networking application can generate or infer trust paths between users based on one or more of the social graphs. In one embodiment to generate the relevant social graph the social networking application retrieves the communication history from the UE e.g. if the trust metric is based at least in part on frequency of communication . Then the communication history is parsed to determine one or more occurrences or patterns of occurrences of communications between the user and other people. The people associated with the social graph s that are part of the occurrences or patterns of occurrences may be flagged sorted etc. in a new relevant social graph that describes potential trust paths. In one example the trust paths may include people that have been in recent communications with the user. In another example the relevant social graph flags people that have been in frequent communications with the user as having potential trust paths. In yet another example the potential trust paths may be ranked based on the communications e.g. recentness of communication frequency of communication algorithms accounting for frequency and recentness of communications intimacy topics of communication etc. . Intimacy and or topics of communication may be flagged based on monitoring communications between users for keywords. For example communications with positive words like the word love can be associated with a strong connection or trust relationship between users while communications with negatives words or phrases such as I hate you can be associated with a negative connection or less trust between users.

The trust levels may be used to provide access to shared resources and or perform other actions with respect to social networking and or communication functions. By way of example the relevant social graph may be utilized to filter information to present to the user via the social networking application . The information may include status updates and feeds messages communications between other members of the social graph a combination thereof etc. Alternatively or additionally the information may be ranked and sorted to be presented to the user via the social networking application . As such certain information may be highlighted or otherwise marked to stand out or have higher priority in presentation e.g. status updates associated with a person that the user has recently had real life contact with .

In certain embodiments the social networking application can be utilized to generate a master social graph that includes information from multiple other social graphs relationships and or trust levels. For example the master social graph can include information that a particular person is a friend in a first social networking service a colleague in another social networking service and not linked to the user in other social networking services. Each of these scenarios may in turn be associated with different trust levels and provide for different potential trust paths. In another example another person may be a contact that has contact information stored in a contact list of the UE including relationship status e.g. wife husband family sister brother child cousin colleague employer friend classmate high school classmate college classmate acquaintance etc. . These relationships or social connections may be utilized to group one or more sets of people in the master social graph or other social graphs together to form potential trust paths.

In certain scenarios a person may belong to more than one group. For example a person may be a member of a user s family group and high school group. The people in these groups can further be associated in a social graph based on relationships e.g. compatibility with each other e.g. how much one person likes another person in the social graph or group . These relationships may further be presented via sounds e.g. sounds indicating sympathy or antipathy or links between the users e.g. a link showing magnetism or dislike between the people . The social networking application or social networking platform can determine the compatibility between people by searching user profiles opinions written in forums and other observable behavior. For example two people who agree on opinions and have common user profile elements can be considered compatible. In one embodiment the compatibility between users is another metric of trust.

As shown in the system comprises a user equipment UE having connectivity to social networking platforms and other UEs via a communication network . By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network not shown a wireless network not shown a telephony network not shown or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like.

The UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer Personal Digital Assistants PDAs or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

By way of example the UEs and the social networking platforms communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application headers layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

The control logic can run applications e.g. a social networking application on the UE . The applications can be stored in the memory while executing. These application may utilize the user interface to interact with users a communication interface to interact with other UEs e.g. via a communication network and a social networking API that may be utilized to interact with the communication interface to interact with social networking platforms . The social networking API may be used by the control logic to query the social networking platforms for information e.g. querying for shared resources querying social graphs associated with the user querying social services to determine whether a person associated with contact information is a member of the social service etc. . Further the social networking API may be utilized to receive and format other services from the social networking platforms e.g. status updates communications between members of the social networking service presence information associated with users of the service etc. .

The communication interface may include multiple means of communication. For example the communication interface may be able to communicate over SMS internet protocol instant messaging voice sessions e.g. via a phone network or other types of communication. The communication interface can be used by the control logic to communicate with other UEs the social networking platforms and other devices. In some examples the communication interface is used to transmit and receive information using protocols and methods associated with the social networking API .

In one embodiment a UE includes a user interface . The user interface can include various methods of communication. For example the user interface can have outputs including a visual component e.g. a screen an audio component a physical component e.g. vibrations and other methods of communication. User inputs can include a touch screen interface a scroll and click interface a button interface etc. In certain embodiments the user interface may additionally have a vocal user interface component. As such a text to speech mechanism may be utilized to provide textual information to the user. Further a speech to text mechanism may be utilized to receive vocal input and convert the vocal input into textual input. Moreover the user interface may be utilized to present social networking information as further detailed in the description of . As such the user interface may be utilized to present content associated with the social networking application .

In certain embodiments the social networking application or other applications e.g. a communication application messaging application etc. execute on the control logic and utilize a resource sharing history and or trust level module to determine and disseminate trust levels trust paths access rights and or other social information to the user via the user interface . As noted above the trust level module may be utilized to determine a privacy level associated with a shared resource of a social networking user calculate a trust level between a requesting user of the resource and a sharing user of the user and to grant access rights to the resource to the requesting user if the trust level meets the requirements of the privacy level associated with the resource. The trust level calculations may be stored in memory and distributed via the social networking API and or communication interface . Further the social networking API may be invoked to retrieve social graphs from one or more social networking platforms or other devices accessible via the communication network .

Further as the user utilizes the UE to access shared resources via the user interface and communication interface a resource sharing history is compiled. The resource sharing history represents a log of access to one or more shared resources. In one embodiment the resource sharing history identifiers users and or devices that have accessed or that have access rights to particular shared resources. The resource sharing history can also include trust levels associated with the users that have accessed the resources. In this way the UE can recommend the appropriate trust levels for different categories of resources e.g. content type volume of data entities accessing the resources and the like. As such in certain embodiments the social graph module is a means for calculating trust levels between users to provide access to a corresponding resource. Further the control logic may be a means for utilizing the resource sharing history and trust level module . For example the control logic can utilize the resource sharing history to determine multiple trust paths between users and to select a path that can enable the user to access a shared resource associated with a predetermined privacy level.

In step a sharing user sets via the control logic of the UE access rights for one or more shared resources. In one embodiment the shared resources are associated with the social networking application . However it is also contemplated that the approach described herein is also applicable to other applications or services for sharing content resources and the like. More specifically in one embodiment the access rights of a shared resource are specified according to one or more three categories e.g. public personal and private . Each of the categories and or privacy levels is further associated with a specific minimum trust level that is met before access to the shared resource is provided. For simplicity and ease of calculation the privacy level and trust level is normalized to a value between 0 and 1. However it is contemplated that the levels need not be normalized or can be normalized to any range.

In this example the public category is used to mark content that is available generally and therefore requires a relatively low trust level to access e.g. a trust level of 0.1 . This information may include for instance a screen name or other public identifier. The personal category is used to mark content that provides slightly more identification of the user e.g. a city of origin and therefore requires a higher trust level to access e.g. a trust level of 0.4 . Finally the private category is used to mark the most sensitive content e.g. home phone birth date etc. and therefore requires a highest level of trust e.g. a trust level of 0.8 . Although the various embodiments are discussed with respect to three privacy levels it is contemplated any number of privacy levels may be specified.

Next in step the sharing user also via the control logic of the UE sets initial trust levels for at least one or more of the user s friends. For example the user may manually specify trust levels for just the closest friends. In this way the control logic can use the initial trust levels against for instance the social graphs of other users to determine common contacts and potential trust paths. In one embodiment the user specify one or more users for inclusion in either a whitelist or a blacklist wherein the whitelist represents users are always trusted for access and the blacklist represents users who are never trusted for access to the resource.

In one embodiment the sharing user need not manually set the privacy levels e.g. trust threshold levels or any other parameters. Instead a default privacy level setting may fit in with most users. For example different categories or types of content can be mapped to the privacy level based on general knowledge and experience. Additionally trust levels of friends may be inferred from other input e.g. communication history resource sharing history etc. .

In step a visiting or requesting user via the control logic of the UE may request access to a shared resource of the sharing user. In this example the requesting user does not have a previous direct relationship e.g. friend status etc. with the sharing user. By way of example the requesting user may have reached the sharing user s profile information or sharing page by clicking or surfing through one or more other users common to both the sharing and requesting users.

On receiving the request the control logic calculates a trust level between the requesting user and the sharing user as described in more detail below with respect to step . For example the control logic determines a trust path running from the requesting user to the sharing user through the one or more other users. For each link between any two users in the path the control logic calculates a link trust level according to a predetermined trust metric. It is noted that the calculation can use any trust metric e.g. a trust metric based on frequency communication history of resource sharing etc. that is normalized to a number between 0 and 1. In one embodiment the each link trust value is multiplied with the next link trust value in the path to generate a path trust value. In certain embodiments a decay factor is also introduced and multiplied with the path trust value. The final product is then used as the trust value of the visiting user.

Next the calculated trust value is compared against the privacy level associated with the requested resource step . If the trust level is sufficient to meet the corresponding privacy level the control logic grants access rights to the resource. In addition the control logic logs the visiting user the user s associated trust level trust path and the like step . As described previously the control logic can then use the log to recommend access control settings e.g. privacy levels and trust levels associated with the visiting user and or the resource step . If the trust level is not sufficient the control logic recommends another trust path that may result in a trust value that can meet the privacy level step . If no path is available the control logic may deny the access request and or alert the sharing user and request manual approval to grant access to the resource.

In step the control logic receives a request from a first user to access a resource e.g. content associated with a second user. This request may be signaled for instance over the social networking applications when the first user accesses a page of the second user s profile. As described above the request triggers a calculation and or determination of the trust level between the first and second users based on a trust metric step .

In one embodiment the metric may be based on a frequency of content of communication. For example in social network theory there is the concept of one or more centrality nodes through which a majority of trusted communications flow. For example a traditional example of a centrality node is a patriarch of a family who everyone entrusts with information and whose communications other nodes trust in turn. By evaluating communication history of various nodes the control logic can identify as part of its trust determination whether a particular node has characteristics of a centrality node. Accordingly in one embodiment the control logic retrieves a communication history and or resource sharing history from the UE which is associated with the first user. The first user may have personal information stored in the memory . Moreover the communication history may further include communication information of the user and other people such as voice sessions such as a phone call text communications such as a Short Message Service SMS Multimedia Messaging Service MMS e mail chat sessions video communications communications via another social networking service e mail chat sessions video communications etc. Further the communication history may include time information as to when the user communicated with a particular person and the type of communication. Moreover the communication history can include statistics of the communications as well as contact information associated with the people e.g. a phone number a messaging alias a name etc. .

Then the control logic provides a means for determining occurrence information regarding a respective occurrence of each identified person in the communication history step . Algorithms e.g. artificial intelligence neural networks and the like may be implemented to determine an occurrence. In certain embodiments an occurrence is a determination from the communication history that sufficient contact was made between the user and the identified person. For example an occurrence may be one communication to the identified person an outgoing communication to the identified person an incoming communication from the identified person a set threshold number of communications with the identified person a set threshold number in the frequency of communication to the identified person the recentness of communications with the identified person a combination thereof or the like.

Further the control logic selects a trust path from the first user to the second user based at least in part on the determined occurrence information and or other social networking information. This occurrence information can then be used to calculate a trust level for the first user to access the resource of the second user. As described with respect to if the calculated trust level meets the predetermined privacy level of the requested resource step the control logic grants the first user access rights to the shared resource of the second user step .

Accordingly in step the control logic calculates the path trust levels for the identified trust paths according the process described with respect to . If the calculated path trust level does not meet the privacy level of the requested resource step the control logic selects another of the identified trust path step and recalculates the trust level. In certain embodiments the control logic can determine trust levels for all possible paths before making a determination against the privacy level of the requested resource.

If the path trust level meets the privacy level the control logic can select the path trust level as the trust level between the first user and the second user step . If multiple path trust levels meet the privacy level the control logic may select the representative trust level using any appropriate criteria or algorithm. For example the control logic may select the trust level of the path that is the most direct or has the fewest number of intervening users. As another example the control logic may select the path corresponding to the highest calculated path trust level. On selection of the representative trust level the control logic can cause presentation of a social graph of at least the first user the second user and any intervening third users step . Example depictions of the social graph are described with respect to below.

At step the control logic generates a log of access to a particular resource to identify users and their respective trust levels that have requested the resource. In one embodiment the log represents an accumulation of usage with respect one or more resources. The control logic can then categorize the resources according to content type step . For example the content type can relate to the privacy level categories discussed previously e.g. public personal and private . The content type may also describe the characteristics of the resource e.g. media files documents etc. . It is contemplated that the content type may be classified according to any criteria e.g. subject associated people etc. .

After classification the control logic can determine the volume or relative volume of requests access grants denials etc. of each content type step . Based at least in part on the log categories and volume the control logic can dynamically update the privacy of levels of the respective resources or modify the trust levels of respective users and make recommendations accordingly step . For example the privacy level of a resource can be increased if more and more access requests to the particular resource or content is denied e.g. implying that the privacy level may be set too stringently . Similarly the trust level of any peers or users who want access to the resources can be updated based on the usage information as well. For example if more and more access requests from user B for private content of user A are accepted the trust level of user B with respect to user A can be increased. Thus end users need not know or set the absolute values of their content access thresholds because relative trust is typically enough for users to adapt and use the system as described herein.

For illustration it is assumed that Adam is sharing a set of photographs over the social network and has set a corresponding privacy level of greater than 0.2 not shown . If Kate were to try to access the photos Kate can follow the direct trust path of Kate Tom Mary Adam. Based on this trust path here calculated trust level would be 0.2 0.7 0.8 0.112. This trust level however is below Adam s set privacy level of 0.2. As a result Kate is denied permission to access the Adam s photographs. However the system may recommend instead the trust path from Kate Smith Mary Adam or Kate Smith Tom Mary Adam which both result in trust levels greater than the target 0.2. Although a decay function is not applied in this example it is contemplated that different forms of transition functions can be used to determine the decline of trust levels access rights in moving along the path from Kate to Adam.

The processes described herein for providing a trust level to access a resource may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein including for providing user interface navigation information associated with the availability of services may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to providing a trust level to access a resource. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for providing a trust level to access a resource. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for providing a trust level to access a resource is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD or plasma screen or printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball or cursor direction keys or motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of application specific ICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for providing a trust level to access a resource to the UE .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to provide a trust level to access a resource. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of providing a trust level to access a resource. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU not shown .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to provide a trust level to access a resource. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

