---

title: System and method for selective media object removal in group communications among wireless communication devices
abstract: A system and method for selectively removing a media object from a group communication that includes media that may not be accessible or executable by all target members of the group. The group communication can have one or more discrete media objects that are sent from an originating wireless communication device across a wireless communication network and received at a group communication server that controls group communications between a group of member wireless communication devices and determines the media-handling capability of the target wireless communication device members of the communication group. Upon a determination that a media object sent is unable to be handled by at least one target wireless communication device, the group communication server removes the one or more media objects notifies the originating wireless communication device and/or that target wireless communication device of the removal of the media object.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08892145&OS=08892145&RS=08892145
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08892145
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100218
---
The present invention relates to point to point or point to multipoint wireless communications systems. More specifically the present invention relates to systems and methods for removal of a media object from a group communication between wireless telecommunication devices that a target user is unable to handle and notification is given to that target user of the media object removal.

In wireless telecommunication devices such as cellular phones PDAs mini laptops and advanced pagers the devices typically communicate over long distances by bridging telephone calls through existing cellular telephone networks and passing data packets across the network. These wireless devices can have limited or significant data processing and computing capability and can accordingly send and receive software programs in addition to voice across the telephone network.

There exists a wireless telecommunication service that provides a quick one to one or one to many communication that is generically referred to as Push To Talk PTT capability. The specific PTT group of recipient devices for the communicating wireless device is commonly set up by the carrier and the PTT communications are mediated by one or more group communication control devices on the wireless communication network. The member devices of the communication group are known to the group communication control devices.

A PTT communication connection is typically initiated by a single button push on the wireless device that activates a half duplex link between the speaker and each member device of the group and once the button is released the device can receive incoming PTT transmissions. Existing PTT systems have advantages over traditional cellular systems because they have faster call setup times e.g. setup times ideally in the range of 1 second as opposed to cellular voice channels that can take more than 5 seconds to establish. In some arrangements the PTT speaker will have the floor where no other group member can speak while the speaker is speaking. Once the speaker releases the PTT button any other individual member of the group can engage their PTT button and they will have the floor. Generally speaking the PTT system uses standard voice over internet protocol VoIP technologies. Voice information is sent in digital form over IP based data networks. In PTT scenarios instead of using the standard cellular infrastructure a call is formed by combining separate point to point connections between each IP endpoint at a server. Initiating the PTT system generates a call to the target device. The call originator s voice can be sent through the carrier s network to the target handset.

In existing PTT systems member devices typically only communicate voice data between the devices during a communication session. It is difficult to include other data or media in a group communication because of the size of the data and the device resources necessary to handle non voice data and the unknown capability of the target devices to handle the media. A mobile device that therefore desires to send non voice data such as media objects must typically do so through specific data traffic channels established between the device and a wireless communication network and not the channels supporting group communications such as PTT voice calls.

Accordingly it would be advantageous to provide a system and method for a mobile device to attempt to send any media object in a group communication to other members of a communication group such as during a PTT communication session without concern that a target device may be unable to handle the media object. It is thus to such a system and method that the present invention is primarily directed.

Briefly described the present invention is for a system and method that selectively removes a media object from a group communication such as PTT calls that can include media that may not be accessible or executable by all target members wireless communication devices of the group. The group communication can have one or more media objects that are sent from an originating wireless communication device across the wireless communication network and received at a group communication server that controls group communications between a group of member wireless communication devices and the group communication server is aware of the media handling capability of the target one or more wireless communication device members of the communication group. Upon a determination that a media object sent is unable to be handled by at least one target wireless communication device the group communication server removes the media object containing the one or more media objects for that target wireless communication device and then notifies that target wireless communication device of the removal of the media object. The removed media object can be placed at another location that will be accessible to the target wireless communication device should it ultimately be able to handle the media object.

In one embodiment the system for selectively removing one or more media objects from a group communication from an originating wireless communication device and one or more target wireless communication devices across a wireless communication network including an originating wireless telecommunication device configured to selectively send a group communication to one or more target wireless communication devices across a wireless communication network where the group communication includes one or more discrete media objects therein. There is a group communication server on the wireless network that is configured to control group communications between a group of member wireless communication devices and determine the media handling capability of one or more wireless communication device members of a communication group. Upon a determination that a media object sent from an originating wireless communication device to at least one target wireless communication device is unable to be handled by the at least one target wireless communication device the group communication server will remove the one or more media objects from the group communication that the target device cannot handle and notify the at least one target wireless communication device of the removal of the one or more media objects.

In one embodiment the method for selectively removing one or more media objects from a group communication from an originating wireless communication device and one or more target wireless communication devices across a wireless communication network including the steps of sending a group communication from an originating wireless communication device to one or more target wireless communication devices across a wireless communication network where the group communication includes one or more discrete media objects. Then the method has the steps of receiving the group communication at a group communication server that controls group communications between a group of member wireless communication devices determining the media handling capability of one or more target wireless communication device members of a communication group and upon a determination that a media object sent from an originating wireless communication device to at least one target wireless communication device is unable to be handled by the at least one target wireless communication device the group communication server removes the one or more media objects from the group communication and notifies the at least one target wireless communication device of the removal of the one or more media objects.

The present invention is therefore advantageous as it provides a system and method that allows a wireless communication device to send a media object within a group communication or along with other group communications without concern as to whether the target can actually handle the media object. The mediating group communication server s can determine if a target wireless communication device is able to handle the media object and remove one or more media objects and notify the target device of the removal of the one or more media objects. In addition in one embodiment the group communication server can provide access to or information on accessing the removed object to the target device such that future access to the removed media object may be possible such as through a hyperlink or web address.

The foregoing is a summary and thus contains by necessity simplifications generalizations and omissions of detail. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting.

In this disclosure the terms communication device wireless device wireless communications device PTT communication device handheld device mobile device and handset are used interchangeably. The terms call and communication are also used interchangeably. The term exemplary means that the disclosed element or embodiment is only an example and does not indicate any preference of user. The term group communication encompasses a one to one or one to many half duplex communication or can be a virtual half duplex communication in a full duplex communication channel. Further like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several drawings and the articles a and the include plural references unless otherwise specified in the description.

The term circuitry used through the disclosure can include specialized computer circuits that embody logic operable to perform function s . In other instances the term circuitry can include a general purpose processing unit that can be configured by software instructions that embody logic operable to perform function s . In this example an implementer may write source code embodying logic that can be compiled into machine readable code. The compiled code can then be processed by the general purpose processing unit thereby transforming the general purpose processing unit into a special purpose processor. One skilled in the art can appreciate that the state of the art has evolved to a point where there is little difference between hardware software and a combination of hardware software and the selection of hardware versus software is a design choice left to an implementer. More specifically one of skill in the art can appreciate that a software process can be transformed into an equivalent hardware circuit and a hardware circuit can itself be transformed into an equivalent software process.

In this embodiment the wireless telecommunication device such as mobile telephone will conduct group communications through at least the group communication computer device shown here as server which is present on a server side LAN across the wireless network . The group communication computer device can determine that the wireless device is present i.e. accessible on the wireless network and share this information with a set of target wireless telecommunication devices designated by the first wireless telecommunication device or it can also share this with other computer devices resident on the server side LAN or accessible across the wireless network . The group communication computer device can have an attached or accessible database to store the group identification data for the wireless devices. A media server can in one embodiment be a file management server present on the server side LAN . It should be appreciated that the number of computer components resident on server side LAN or across the wireless network or Internet generally are not limited.

The group communication such as a PTT communication can be established through a half duplex channel between the communicating wireless telecommunication device and the one or more other wireless telecommunication devices of the target set. Also the group communication server can attempt to bridge the requested direct communication with the target set if at least one of the wireless telecommunication devices of the target set have informed the group communication server of their presence on the wireless network .

The group communication server can also inform the wireless telecommunication device of the inability to bridge a direct communication to the target set upon none of the wireless telecommunication devices or at least one of the target set not having informed the group communication server of their presence on the wireless network . Further while the group communication server is shown here as having the attached media server of group identification data the group communication computer device can have group identity data resident thereupon and perform all storage functions described herein.

In overview the system can include at least one wireless communication device such as mobile telephone that can be a member of a communication group of wireless communication devices. The wireless communication devices in this example can be configured to communicate with each other as a group across a wireless communication network . At least one group communication server is configured to store information on communication groups on the wireless communication network the information including the identity of the specific member wireless communication devices of one or more communication groups. The group communication server can be further configured to selectively remove media objects from a data stream from a sending wireless communication device such as mobile telephone of a communication group such that a target wireless device may download the removed media objects at a later time.

The system can further include a media server in communication with the group communication server with the group communication server configured to send media objects to the media server as is further described herein. The media server can be configured to receive the media objects from the wireless communication device such as mobile phone and selectively permit members of the communication group for which the notice of removal was sent to access the stored media object across the wireless communication network .

For example in an embodiment of the present disclosure the media object can include but is not limited to pictures in JPEG TIF and the like audio files such as MP3 MP4 WAV and the like documents and or presentations. The media objects can additionally include streaming media such as a multimedia application Powerpoint MOV file and the like .

The size of the media object files can be very large and because of the potential delay of sending the media or inability of the receiving wireless communication device to handle the sent media the system can use a media server or file management server to store the media objects such that target members of the communication group can selectively access the stored media without interrupting other PTT communications. The media server can be configured to send previews of media objects to each of the member wireless devices of the communication group upon establishing a communication link therewith. Alternatively in one embodiment if the media objects are stored at the media server the media server can be configured to send a hyperlink to the originating device or the other member wireless communication devices of the communication group . The hyperlink in this example can provide a link to the stored group directed media at the media server . Upon receipt of previews for the media objects by at least one of the member wireless devices of the communication group the group communication server can send an acknowledgement indicating to the wireless communication device that at least one member wireless communication device of the communication group received the media object.

The wireless communication device can send communication group identification data to the group communication server at the time of requesting the media object to be sent e.g. a target list and thus the media server can be configured to send or store the media object to or for the member wireless communication devices identified in the communication group identification data based upon a variety of criteria as is further discussed herein. Alternately prior to the wireless communication device sending media objects the wireless communication device can request member data for a communication group from the group communication computer device and the group communication server can send one or more addresses or communication group addresses to the wireless communication device . In one embodiment the communication group computer device can filter the potential communication groups available based upon their member devices capability to received media objects.

As is further described herein the wireless communication device can be engaged in a group communication with the member wireless communication devices of the communication group and send media objects during the group communication in the same communication session or independently therefrom. Alternately the media objects can be sent independently of the group communication session.

Referring now to it illustrates an example wireless network in a common cellular telecommunication configuration. The wireless network in this example can include a series of group communication servers that control communications between the wireless communication devices of set group members devices in a PTT system. The wireless network is merely exemplary and can include any system whereby remote modules communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components of a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers. A series of group communication servers are connected to a group communication server LAN . Wireless telephones can request packet data sessions from the group communication server s using a data service option.

Continuing with the description of the group communication server s in this example can be connected to a wireless service provider s packet data service node PDSN such as PDSN shown here resident on a carrier network . Each PDSN can interface with a base station controller of a base station through a packet control function PCF . The PCF can be located in the base station . The carrier network can control messages generally in the form of data packets sent to a messaging service controller MSC . The carrier network in this example can communicate with the MSC by a network the Internet and or POTS plain ordinary telephone system . Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the MSC transfers data and the POTS transfers voice information. The MSC can be connected to one or more base stations . In a similar manner to the carrier network the MSC is typically connected to the branch to source BTS by both the network and or Internet for data transfer and POTS for voice information. The BTS ultimately broadcasts and receives messages wirelessly to and from the wireless devices such as cellular telephones by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods known in the art. It should also be noted that carrier boundaries and or PTT operator network boundaries do not inhibit or prohibit the sharing of data as described herein.

Cellular telephones and mobile telecommunication devices such as wireless telephone are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers and hand held PDAs. These smart cellular telephones allow software developers to create software applications that are downloadable and executable on the processor of the wireless device. The wireless device such as cellular telephone can download many types of applications such as web pages applets MIDlets games and data. In wireless devices that have designated a communication group such as depicted by the wireless communication device can directly connect with the other member of the set and engage in voice and data communication. However such direct communications will occur through or at the control of the group communication computer device . All data packets of the devices do not necessarily have to travel through the communication server itself but the communication server must be able to ultimately control the communication because it will typically be the only server side component that is aware of and or can retrieve the identity of the members of the communication group or direct the identity of the members of the communication group to another computer device.

Referring now to illustrated is an example wireless telecommunication device that can be a mobile telephone with a PTT button that opens the direct communication to a target device. The wireless device is also shown as having a graphics display . The wireless device can include a computer platform that can handle voice and data packets and receive and execute software applications transmitted across the wireless network . The computer platform includes among other components an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit programmable gate array or other data processing device. The ASIC is installed at the time of manufacture of the wireless device and is not normally upgradeable. The ASIC or other processor executes an application programming interface API layer which includes the resident application environment and can include the operating system loaded on the ASIC . The resident application environment interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. An example of a resident application environment is the binary runtime environment for wireless BREW software developed by QUALCOMM for wireless device platforms.

As shown here the wireless device can be a mobile telephone with a graphics display but can also be any wireless device with a computer platform as known in the art such as a personal digital assistant PDA a pager with a graphics display or even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal and may otherwise have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. Further the memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The computer platform can also include a local database for storage of software applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically comprised of one or more flash memory cells but can be any secondary or tertiary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape or soft or hard disk. The graphics display can present not only information about the ongoing group call but also the information about the media object in order to generate a preview as is more fully described herein.

In this embodiment the computer platform can also include a group communication interface that can open a group communication channel. The group communication interface can also be part of the standard communication interface for the wireless device which ordinarily carries the voice and data transmitted to and from the wireless device. The group communication interface typically is comprised of hardware as is known in the art.

Continuing with the description of additionally depicted is a diagram of one embodiment of the software layers of the group application client that can include but is not limited to PTT functionality and media object functionality. In this embodiment the computer platform in the mobile device environment can include a series of software layers developed on top of the Mobile Station Modem MSM and the Advanced Mobile Subscriber Software AMSS developed by QUALCOMM . In this example the underlying MSM chipset can implement the software protocol stack for the entire suite of CDMA communication technologies that include CDMA2000 1X and CDMA2000 1xEV DO. In this example the AMSS can be configured to support a mobile operating system layer which in this embodiment is BREW also developed by QUALCOMM . The mobile operating system layer can provide an application programming interface for chip or device specific operations while providing an isolation layer that eliminates direct contact to the AMSS and any OEM software on the computer platform. The mobile operating system layer can enable application development that uses mobile device features without having to rewrite the application each time a new release of the device specific software is released.

In this example the mobile operating system can include a PTT client that is configured to offer access to PTT services through an external interface here shown at a PTT aware UI . The PTT Communication Client can include all the functions required to enable mobile operating system applications such as the Media Client . In this embodiment the PTT Communication Client can maintain access to PTT services responds to communication requests process all PTT aware mobile operating system applications requests for PTT services process all outgoing PTT requests collect and package vocoder packets for originating PTT talk spurts and parses packets of vocoder data for terminated PTT talk spurts.

The media client in this example can be a mobile operating system based application that extends PTT services for access to media types other than the traditional half duplex voice communications VoIP PTT media . The media client can provide access to media services through an external interface such as a media aware API that is an application that may be developed entirely as a mobile operating system based application or used in combination with an AMSS interface. The group media aware UI can respond to user requests for media services by invoking the appropriate APIs such as those from other resident PTT and group media applications . The media client can service the request from the user and inform the user the result of any group directed media request. The media client can additionally be configured to handle incoming notifications that indicate there is media object to download from the file management server data store . For example the media client can be configured in one embodiment to download media objects immediately or in other embodiments the media client can be configured to download the media object at a predetermined time period e.g. at 10 00 pm daily or it can be configured to prompt the user via the PTT UI to determine whether and or when to download the file. The specific usage of the PTT Communication client is shown only for illustration as the media client can utilize whatever communication interface is present at the mobile device for communication in either software hardware or virtual form. Furthermore the PTT Communication client can instruct or utilize other resident systems either in hardware firmware or software to perform the functions stated herein.

Referring now to an embodiment of the method for selectively removing a media object during a group communication with an originating wireless communication device and one or more target wireless communication devices across a wireless communication network . The present method can be commenced prior to the instantiation of the group communication session at the time of the group setup or during the session. The user of the wireless communication device inputs a media object to send to another device of the communication group as shown at step and then attaches the media object to the group communication as shown at step . This attachment can be insertion of data within a half duplex communication spurt attached to other data or voice or can be a separate object therefrom. The media object is then sent from the originating wireless communication device to one or more target wireless communication devices across a wireless communication network the group communication including one or more media objects which can be discretely discerned in the data as shown at step . The media object will be discrete data such that the media object can be identified within the group communication stream either as a separate attached file or a separate communication possibly being separate communication packets within the group communication data.

Referring now to there is illustrated one embodiment of the group communication server receiving the group communication from the wireless communication device . The group communication server which control group communications between a group of member wireless communication devices received a group communication from wireless communication device as shown at step and then the group communication server determines the one or more group member wireless communication devices that the group communication is intended for as shown at step . A determination is then made as to whether there is a media object in the media representing a data object as shown at decision . If there is not a media object attached at decision then the message is sent to the member of the communication group as shown at step .

Otherwise if there is a media object attached at decision then a determination is made as to whether the intended member for the media object can handle the media object as shown at decision . The group communication server can be aware of the capabilities of the member based upon stored information on the device or can request information from the member device on its capabilities prior to sending the message as shown as performed by the DCH in . If the member device can handle the media object at decision then the message will be sent to the member as shown at step with not alteration or changes to the media object or message. Otherwise if the member cannot handle the media object at decision then the media object is removed from the group communication message as shown at step and in one embodiment the media object is then stored at another location accessible to the wireless communication device as shown at step . The storage could be for example in the media server such that the member wireless communication device could later access the stored media should it be able to handle it. Then the group communication server prepares a modified message possibly notifying the member of the removed media object and also including the saved location of the media such as hyperlink or web address as shown at step and then the modified message is sent to the member wireless communication device as shown at step .

In one embodiment the media server can then send on the wireless communication network through the group communication server to the at least one target wireless communication device the media object containing the one or more media objects as well as storing the media object such that the at least one target wireless communication device can selectively retrieve the stored media object upon the target wireless communication device being able to handle the one or more media objects held within the stored media object. Then in this embodiment the originator of the media object is notified that the media object was removed either through a standard message that a media object was removed or can provide a customized message of what was removed and or its stored location as shown at step .

In one embodiment the group communication server can store information on the media handling capability of each of the wireless communication device members of a communication group itself or can access the information from another computer device across the wireless communication network that stores information on the media handling capability of each of the wireless communication device members of a communication group .

Referring now to there is illustrated one embodiment of a call flow diagram for selectively removing the media object from half duplex communication of the media in a push to talk session. The usage of a PTT session is only illustrative and any group communication session that is created between devices can be utilized. For example the user of the device may determine that they want to engage in a PTT conversation with a user of a target device and request a push to talk session and also send media to the communication group . A PTT session can be established by the PTT Communication client by selecting a contact from an address book and pressing the PTT button of . In one embodiment the PTT Communication client can receive an indication of the selection and send a call setup request message to a dispatch call handler DCH . Here the DCH serves as a group communication server but one or more servers can alternately handle the setup of the group communication. Here the call setup request can contain for instance the target device s address the media objects desired sent and information that identifies the media server that stores media for the mobile device . The call setup request may also be sent with a DataOverSignaling DoS Access channel message or other signaling messages in various formats such as Short Data Burst SDB messages can likewise be utilized. In an example embodiment the DCH can be configured to perform the PTT call setup functions including locating the target applying call restrictions selecting a vocoder and location and or assign a media server to handle storing any media objects uploaded during the PTT session.

Once the device is granted the floor in the PTT session with the PTT Communication client having an outgoing channel open the media client can send media to the DCH and the DCH will determine if the target device and more specifically the media client of the target device can handle the media. Here the DCH is shown as requesting and receiving media capabilities from the target device . If the target device is unable to handle the media the DCH removes the media and stores it at the media server . The target device and media client or this can be the PTT Communication client can be notified of the removal by the DCH . Additionally notice can be given to the originating device that the media object was removed from the message. After the PTT or push to share session has ended the media client can retrieve the removed media object that is stored at the media server if the target client has become able to handle the media.

Other devices on the wireless network can likewise perform some or all of the functionality described herein as executed on the DCH . Furthermore the media client can alternately direct other modules on the device to send and receive media or can send instructions to other devices to implement the present system and method. For example the media client can only send an instruction to the media server to send stored media to the target device . Likewise the media client and the target device can likewise instruct another module resident on the platform of the target device to perform a task such as retrieving media from the media server . Thus in one embodiment the present method can be carried out through instructions from the media clients .

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the systems and or processes via examples and or operational diagrams. Insofar as such block diagrams and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams or examples can be implemented individually in firmware or virtually any combination thereof or collectively by a wide range of hardware software media.

In view of the methods being executable on a mobile device and other computer platforms the method can accordingly be performed by a program resident in a computer readable medium where the program directs the mobile device or other computer device having a computer platform to perform the steps of the method. The computer readable medium can be the memory of a server or can be in a connective database. Further the computer readable medium can be in a secondary storage media that is loadable onto a communication device computer platform such as a magnetic disk or tape optical disk hard disk flash memory or other storage media as is known in the art.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored as one or more instructions or code on a non transitory computer readable medium. Non transitory computer readable media includes both computer storage media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that may be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such non transitory computer readable media may comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that may be used to store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that may be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of non transitory computer readable media.

While particular aspects of the present subject matter described herein have been shown and described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that based upon the teachings herein changes and modifications may be made without departing from the subject matter described herein and its broader aspects and therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein.

