---

title: Digital image display device with automatically adjusted image display durations
abstract: A digital image display device for displaying a collection of digital images, comprising: a display screen; a processor; a real-time clock; an image memory for storing a plurality of digital images; and a processor-accessible program memory. The program memory stores executable instructions for causing the processor to execute the steps of: initiating a sequential display of a sequence of digital images on the display screen at an initial time, the sequence of digital images including at least a subset of the stored digital images, each digital image being displayed for an image display duration, the image display duration being set to an initial image display duration at the initial time; and modifying the image display duration during the display of the sequence of digital images.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09454341&OS=09454341&RS=09454341
owner: Kodak Alaris Inc.
number: 09454341
owner_city: Rochester
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101118
---
Reference is made to commonly assigned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 948 994 entitled Digital Image Display Device With Reduced Power Mode by Lawrence Landry to commonly assigned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 949 054 entitled Digital Image Display Device With Remotely Disableable User Interface by Michael Telek to commonly assigned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 948 892 entitled Method For Remotely Configuring A Digital Image Display Device by Lawrence Landry to commonly assigned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 949 086 entitled Digital Image Display Device With Remote Viewing Interface by Michael Telek each of which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention pertains to the field of digital media frames and more particularly to a digital media frame having an automatically adjusted image display duration.

A digital media frame also called a digital photo frame a digital picture frame or a digital image display device is a device that electronically stores and displays digital images. As used herein the term digital image includes both digital still images and digital video images. The digital images are typically captured using digital cameras still or video but may also be obtained using other types of digital image sources such as scanners. For example U.S. Pat. No. 4 754 271 to Edwards entitled Liquid Crystal Photograph describes a device resembling a pocket calculator which stores still pictures in a digital memory cartridge and displays the pictures on a liquid crystal display LCD screen. The device includes an auto sequencing mode which automatically changes the displayed image after a user selectable time period such as 5 seconds or 5 minutes.

Digital media frames can include a modem to receive digital images over a communications network from computers or other devices as described in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 7 155 679 Digital Media Frame to Bandaru et al. which is incorporated herein by reference. Such a digital media frame is commonly known as a connected frame. This patent further teaches that the connected digital media frame can include an information mode which displays news headlines stock trading news weather reports and advertising received over the communications network.

Some digital media frames can receive digital images over a network from a share group which includes a plurality of members as described in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 6 509 910 entitled Method and system for interfacing with a digital media frame network to Agarwal et al. which is incorporated herein by reference. This patent teaches that images provided by various sharing members can be downloaded from a network service and automatically displayed on digital media frames which communicate with the network service.

FrameChannel is an Internet service that can be used with a digital media frame having a modem which enables an Internet connection such as a WiFi modem that enables communication with an Internet Service Provider ISP via a wireless home router. A FrameChannel customer can use a home computer to access the FrameChannel website www.framechannel.com in order to customize the content that will be provided to their digital media frame. The customer can select from many different channels of custom content including news traffic weather sports and financial data. The customer can also use FrameChannel to receive photos from social networking or digital image sharing websites such as Facebook and Flickr and to receive photos via E mail and camera phone messages.

Digital media frames are often purchased as gifts for others such as parents and grandparents. In many cases it is desirable to pre configure the digital media frame before giving it to the recipient for example with images of children and grandchildren. In many cases the pictures can be added to the digital media frame using a removable memory. However this requires opening the box containing the digital media frame after it is purchased which is not desirable in most gift giving situations. As an alternative the removable memory can be packaged and wrapped separately from the box. However this requires that the digital media frame include a removable memory interface which adds cost. It also requires that the recipient know how to connect the removable memory to the interface which may be difficult for an elderly recipient.

If the digital media frame is a connected frame it is possible to supply content to the frame over a network. However this normally requires that the frame be configured to interface over the network with the web site that will supply the content. In order to accomplish this the person providing the gift must typically open the manufacturer s packaging to obtain serial numbers or codes required for device configuration. As stated earlier this is not desirable in most gift giving situations.

In some situations the person viewing the connected frame does not want the device to continuously display images either because this is thought to consume excessive power or because a continuous display may become distracting to them. However when new images are received by the connected frame most viewers would like to view them immediately. Unfortunately current connected frames require the viewer to manually turn on the display in order to see if any new images have been received. This is inconvenient. Furthermore in some situations the person who provided the new images over the network to the connected frame would like to have a conversation related to the new images with the viewer of the connected frame. This can be difficult however since the person providing the images over the network is at a different location and does not know which of the new images is currently being displayed on the connected frame.

In some situations the person receiving the connected frame is an elderly person who might not be knowledgeable or physically able to select the connected frame features that would be most appropriate for them. In some cases the person providing the connected frame is best able to select these features for the recipient but may be located in a different city or state. Furthermore even if the person providing the connected frame travels to an elderly recipient s location in order to set the desired features and modes the recipient may later inadvertently make inappropriate selections on the user interface of the connected frame. These selections would then override the desired settings and modes which had been set by the person who provided the connected frame.

In some situations the desired mode for a connected frame is an auto sequencing e.g. slideshow mode which displays a sequence of digital images such as still pictures for a predetermined period of time. When new images are received by the connected frame it is often desirable to view them in a relatively rapid sequence. For example it might be desirable to display a new image every 10 seconds. However such a relatively short update rate can be bothersome to some viewers of the connected frame if it is used continuously for many hours or many days. Unfortunately current digital media frames only allow a user to select one specific slideshow time period e.g. 5 seconds 10 seconds 1 minute or 5 minutes to be used until it is manually changed by the viewer.

What is needed is a method for remote pre configuration of a digital image display device such as a digital media frame which is purchased with the intention of giving it to a recipient and for overcoming other limitations and disadvantages associated with the use of connected frames.

The present invention represents a digital image display device for displaying a collection of digital images comprising 

a processor accessible program memory storing executable instructions for causing the processor to execute the steps of 

This invention has the advantage that when new digital images are received by a digital image display device they can be initially viewed with a short image display duration.

It has the additional advantage that after the received digital images have been viewed for a specified period of time a longer display duration can be used to avoid distracting users.

It is to be understood that the attached drawings are for purposes of illustrating the concepts of the invention and may not be to scale.

In the following description some embodiments of the present invention will be described in terms that would ordinarily be implemented as a software program. Those skilled in the art will readily recognize that the equivalent of such software can also be constructed in hardware. Because image manipulation algorithms and systems are well known the present description will be directed in particular to algorithms and systems forming part of or cooperating more directly with the system and method in accordance with the present invention. Other aspects of such algorithms and systems and hardware or software for producing and otherwise processing the image signals involved therewith not specifically shown or described herein can be selected from such systems algorithms components and elements known in the art. Given the system as described according to the invention in the following materials software not specifically shown suggested or described herein that is useful for implementation of the invention is conventional and within the ordinary skill in such arts.

Still further as used herein a computer program for performing the method of the present invention can be stored in a non transitory computer readable storage medium which can include for example magnetic storage media such as a magnetic disk e.g. a hard drive or a floppy disk or magnetic tape optical storage media such as an optical disc optical tape or machine readable bar code solid state electronic storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM or any other physical device or medium employed to store a computer program having instructions for controlling one or more computers to practice the method according to the present invention.

The invention is inclusive of combinations of the embodiments described herein. References to a particular embodiment and the like refer to features that are present in at least one embodiment of the invention. Separate references to an embodiment or particular embodiments or the like do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment or embodiments however such embodiments are not mutually exclusive unless so indicated or as are readily apparent to one of skill in the art. The use of singular or plural in referring to the method or methods and the like is not limiting. It should be noted that unless otherwise explicitly noted or required by context the word or is used in this disclosure in a non exclusive sense.

Because digital media frames and related circuitry for providing digital interfaces digital image storage digital image processing and image display are well known the present description will be directed in particular to elements forming part of or cooperating more directly with the method and apparatus in accordance with the present invention. Elements not specifically shown or described herein are selected from those known in the art. Certain aspects of the embodiments to be described are provided in software. Given the system as shown and described according to the invention in the following materials software not specifically shown described or suggested herein that is useful for implementation of the invention is conventional and within the ordinary skill in such arts.

The following description of digital media frames will be familiar to one skilled in the art. It will be obvious that there are many variations of this embodiment that are possible and are selected to reduce the cost add features or improve the performance of the digital media frame. The present invention is illustrated by way of example and not limitation in the accompanying figures.

The digital image display device allows a user to display digital media assets with minimal user intervention. The digital media assets to be displayed typically includes digital still images captured with a digital camera. The digital media assets to be displayed can also include video clips graphic images text and animations. The digital media assets can also include audio information such as music speech and sound effects.

Referring to a central processor in the digital image display device provides the overall control of the digital image display device . The central processor is coupled to a user input interfaces block which enables a user of the digital image display device to select operating modes and images to be displayed. The central processor is also coupled to a media interface block and a network interface block which are used to provide digital media assets to the digital image display device . The central processor is also coupled to a non volatile storage block via an interface which provides a processor accessible program memory that stores executable instructions that are used to control the operation of the central processor . Non volatile storage block can also serve as a processor accessible image memory for storing a collection of digital media assets.

The central processor is also coupled to a buffer memory block which temporarily stores digital media assets for display on display screen . The central processor is also coupled to a display compensation block which processes the digital images and provides the compensated digital images to the display screen . The central processor is also coupled to an audio codec block which processes digital audio information and converts the digital audio information to one or more analog signals which are provided to one or more speakers .

The user input interfaces block can be provided using various conventional user input devices and circuits. For example the user input interfaces block can include a group of user buttons such as those provided on the upper back of the digital image display device in . These user buttons can include for example a forward function button a reverse function button and a pause function button. The forward function button allows the user to initiate the display of the next image in a playlist the reverse function button allows the user to initiate the display of the previous image in a playlist and the pause function button allows the user to initiate the continued display of the current image until a different function button is pressed by the user. The user buttons can also include a menu button a select button and a number of cursor movement buttons such as up down left and right or some subset thereof. These can be used to select various operating modes.

In some embodiments the user input interfaces block includes a touch screen interface provided on the front surface of the display screen . In some embodiments the touch screen interface can be implemented using IR emitters and detectors in front of and parallel to the display screen . A touch is detected by determining which IR beams have been blocked by the viewer s finger. In some embodiments this can be implemented using a relatively small number of emitters and detectors. For example using 5 emitters spaced vertically and 8 detectors spaced horizontally enables the detection of 5 8 positions on the display screen. This is enough to allow touch buttons icons to be displayed on the display screen and discern which button icon was touched by the viewer. In some embodiments the user input interfaces block includes a touch sensitive input surface that can be positioned adjacent to the display screen . For example the KODAK EASYSHARE P730 Digital Frame includes two Quick Touch Border capacitive touch strips including a horizontally oriented touch strip adjacent the bottom of the display screen and a vertically oriented touch strip adjacent the right side of the display screen . Menu items are displayed on the display screen adjacent to these touch strips and the viewer touches the strip at the appropriate location in order to select menu items. One advantage of the Quick Touch Border is that it keeps fingerprints off of the display screen .

In some embodiments the user input interface can also include a pointing device such as a computer mouse a joy stick a track ball or a track pad. In some embodiments the user input interface can also include a remote control input device. The remote control can include user inputs which replicate some or all of the functions provided by the user buttons . In some embodiments the user input interface can also include a voice recognition interface including a microphone and speech recognition processor or a gesture recognition interface that includes a sensing device such as a camera which recognizes user hand gestures or other user movements.

Non volatile storage block represents non volatile storage memory which may include for example flash EPROM memory. Non volatile storage block provides a processor accessible program memory for storing executable instructions such as firmware programs for controlling the operation of the central processor .

In some embodiments the firmware programs stored in non volatile memory block can be updated or replaced by new firmware provided using the media interface block or the network interface block . In some embodiments other types of non volatile memory such as Read Only Memory ROM magnetic disk storage or optical disc storage can be used. In some embodiments the central processor includes an additional program memory not shown and the firmware programs stored in the non volatile storage block are copied into the program memory before being executed by the central processor .

The non volatile storage block can also be used to provide a processor accessible image memory for storing a collection of digital media assets such as still images video clips sounds music graphics text and other types of content which can be used to create the images displayed on the display screen and the sounds output from speaker s . These sounds can include sounds captured by the digital still or video camera when the digital images were captured. These sounds can also include sounds such as audio annotations captured when the images were previously viewed either by the user or another individual. These sounds can also include songs or music soundtracks that have been associated with the digital images. In some embodiments at least some of the stored digital media assets are associated with particular events either automatically as a result of the image capture date or as a result of manual selection by the user. The sounds can also include audio content associated with the particular events.

The non volatile storage block also stores auxiliary information e.g. metadata associated with the digital media assets. This metadata can include the date and time the image was captured by a digital capture device e.g. a digital still camera or a digital video camera or the date and time the image was received by the digital image display device . The metadata can also include data which identifies the individual or service that provided the digital media assets that was transferred to the digital image display device using the system to be described later in reference to . In some embodiments the metadata associated with a particular digital image can include one or more parameters that can be used to control how the particular digital image is to be displayed on the digital image display device . For example the metadata can include a custom image display duration for the digital image or a image display sequence number indicating an order in which the digital images should be displayed. As another example the metadata can include an importance rating for the digital image as described in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 7 307 636 to Matraszek et al. which is incorporated herein by reference. In this case the image display duration can be determined in part by the rating so that a digital image having a higher importance rating is displayed for a longer period or more frequently than an image having a lower importance rating.

Buffer memory block is a relatively small memory compared to non volatile storage block which provides fast memory access for displaying images. The buffer memory block can use for example one or more dynamic random access memory DRAM or static random access memory SRAM integrated circuits.

The media interface block receives digital media files from various local external devices such as removable media devices. For example the media interface block can include memory card and USB interface connectors to enable the digital image display device to display media files stored on various removable Flash memory cards such as a Secure Digital SD card a micro SD card a Compact Flash CF card a MultiMedia Card MMC an xD card or a Memory Stick as well as USB memory sticks or jump drives . The digital media assets stored on these memory devices can be provided by digital computers digital still cameras digital video cameras camera phones PDAs print and film scanners and other types of digital imaging devices. The central processor controls the media interface block in order to transfer media files from the local external devices. The transferred files can be stored in the non volatile storage block or can be stored directly in the buffer memory block for immediate display on the display screen . Thus the media interface block in combination with the removable memory card or memory stick provides a processor accessible image memory for storing a collection of digital media assets such as digital images.

The network interface block can be used to enable other devices such as computers or mobile imaging devices to transfer digital media files to the digital image display device . The network interface block can be provided using a wired interface such as an Ethernet cable interface or a wired telephone modem. The network interface block can also be provided using a wireless interface such as a WiFi e.g. IEEE 802.11 WiFi standard modem a cellular modem or a Bluetooth modem.

In some embodiments the network interface block provides a direct connection to the Internet and is configured to read HTML HyperText Markup Language and to use TCP IP Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol . In other embodiments the network interface block provides a connection to a local area network which can then provide an Internet connection using a wired or wireless router or other type of network interface device which either interfaces directly to the Internet or to an Internet Service Provider ISP .

The display compensation block is used to adjust the image data for the characteristics of the display screen . This can include tone scale adjustments color adjustments sharpness adjustments or any other type of appropriate adjustment. It should be noted that in some embodiments the display compensation block can be implemented by the central processor . In other embodiments the display compensation block and central processor can be integrated into the same integrated circuit IC .

The display screen displays images using a soft copy display device such as a color active matrix LCD Liquid Crystal Display . Other types of soft copy display devices may be used such as an OLED Organic Light Emitting Diode display a CRT Cathode Ray Tube or various silicon based displays.

A power supply converts the AC power supplied via a wall plug to the proper DC voltages needed to provide power to all of the components of the digital image display device . In some embodiments the power supply can include a re chargeable battery so that the digital image display device can be portable thus allowing it to be used for a period of time without a power cable and outdoors. In some embodiments the digital image display device can include a solar panel which is used to charge the rechargeable battery.

The power supply can include a power control circuit not shown which enables an active display mode for displaying images on the display screen and a reduced power mode wherein the display screen is turned off and does not display digital images. The power control circuit can be controlled by the central processor . The power control circuit can also control the power to other portions of the digital image display device such as display compensation block audio codec block buffer memory block and media interface block .

In some embodiments the user input interfaces block can enable a user to specify an on time for initiating the active display mode at a specified time of day and an off time for initiating the reduced power mode at a specified time of day. For example the digital image display device can be configured to operate in the active display mode from 7 00 AM to 9 00 PM each day and otherwise to operate in the reduced power mode. In some embodiments a different schedule can be specified for weekdays and weekends. For example if it is known that no viewers are generally present from 8 00 AM to 5 00 PM on weekdays then the digital image display device can also be configured to operate in the reduced power mode during those hours.

In some embodiments the digital image display device includes a motion sensor not shown . The motion sensor can provide a signal to the central processor which controls the power supply in order to supply power to the display screen only when motion is detected. This reduces the power wasted when displaying images if there are no viewers in the vicinity of the digital image display device .

The central processor runs two primary processes in order to display images and communicate with other system components as will be described later in reference to and . A real time clock in the central processor provides a date time of day value. In some embodiments the real time clock is manually configured by the user while in other embodiments the real time clock is configured using information accessed on an external device such as a Network Time Protocol NTP server using the network interface block .

It will be understood that the functions of the central processor can be provided using a single programmable processor or by using multiple programmable processors including one or more digital signal processor DSP devices. Alternatively the central processor can be provided by custom circuitry e.g. by one or more custom integrated circuits ICs designed specifically for use in digital media frames or by a combination of programmable processor s and custom circuits. It will be understood that connections between the central processor and some of the blocks shown in can be made using a common data bus. For example in some embodiments the connection between the central processor the non volatile storage block the buffer memory block the media interface block and the network interface block can be made using a common data bus.

Each content providing system can include an external content media server which communicates with an external content host in order to supply external digital image and metadata content . The external digital image and metadata content can be stored on hard drives or other digital storage devices or media that can be accessed by the external content host .

In some embodiments the content and configuration server only provides a list of digital media assets together with appropriate information about each digital media asset. The digital image display device can subsequently access digital media files directly from the content providing systems .

It will be understood that the various blocks shown in can be implemented using different hardware configurations. For example the routing server action logging server and authentication server can execute on the same physical hardware or on different hardware. Furthermore each server such as routing server may execute on multiple pieces of hardware in order to execute operations in parallel.

In read next digital media asset step the central processor reads the list and determines the next digital media asset to display from the list. The central processor then reads the digital media asset from the non volatile storage block or the storage media connected to media interface block . In some embodiments the central processor can read the digital media asset from a remote storage site via the network interface block .

In decompress data step the central processor decompresses the image data associated with the digital media asset and stores the decompressed image data in the buffer memory block . If the digital media asset is a video file such as an MPEG 2 or MPEG 4 video file the central processor performs real time decompression of the compressed video file.

In resize image for display step the central processor scales the image for display by resizing the image as necessary in order to match the image size i.e. the display screen resolution required by display screen . In some embodiments the image size stored in buffer memory block is slightly larger than the screen resolution in order to allow for some panning zooming effects as the image is displayed.

In compensate image data for display step the display compensation block applies compensation to the image data before it is provided to the display screen . The compensation typically includes adjusting the image to account for the characteristics of the display screen e.g. an LCD panel . In some embodiments the compensation may also adapt to the content of the specific image for example to provide image specific enhancements.

In display image step the central processor displays the current image on the display screen . The central processor can also display visual messages or user interface controls on the display screen to indicate to the user of the digital image display device various operating modes and options that can be selected by the user. In some embodiments the central processor provides these messages and controls using an on screen graphics buffer which can be stored in a portion of buffer memory block . The graphics information provided from this on screen graphics buffer can be blended with the currently displayed image when the user activates one of the user interface elements of the user input interfaces block such as a touch screen interface. In some embodiments the text and icons are transparently overlaid on top of the currently displayed image.

In respond to user interface inputs step if the user makes a selection using one of the user input elements the central processor takes one or more actions in response to the user selection. This can include for example changing the display time for images deleting an image from the collection of digital media assets or selecting a subset of the collection of digital media assets to display.

In wait to display next digital media asset step the central processor waits until the real time clock has advanced by a specified time interval between images and then execution returns to the read next digital media asset step . The specified time interval can be a factory default time interval e.g. 10 seconds per image or can be a time interval selected by the user using appropriate user interface elements. The central processor also controls the type of transition between images. The transition is a mechanism of retiring the current image while phasing in the next image. For example one type of image transition moves the current and next images in one direction e.g. left to right or top to bottom such that the current image moves out while the next image moves in. In another example the image transition fades out the current image while fading in the next image on top of the current image. Those skilled in the art will recognize that many different types of transitions can also be used.

At startup an identify server s step is performed during which the digital image display device interfaces via network interface block over the Internet to the routing server at a known server location in order to identify itself and determine how to proceed. The routing server returns information to the digital image display device that indicates which server s the digital image display device should communicate with for all subsequent functions. The only address that is not allowed to change is the path to this routing server .

In obtain security code token step the digital image display device uses a secure communication method e.g. https to query the authentication server for a security code to communicate with the rest of the system. This query involves transmission of private information that is known by both the digital image display device and the authentication server . The authentication server generates a temporary security token and returns the token to the digital image display device . The token is made available to other parts of the server and other servers to allow authentication of the particular digital image display device for future operations.

When the time window for the authentication token expires any operations from the digital image display device to one of the servers other than the authentication server will be rejected. In this situation the digital image display device then communicates with the authentication server in order to acquire a new authentication token before continuing with other operations. The use of a temporary token for most of the communications between the digital image display device and each of the servers has the advantage of minimizing exposure to the private information shared between the digital image display device and the authentication server and the advantage of minimizing the computation required for subsequent communications by reducing the need for secure communications with a temporary token.

In obtain and store new content step the digital image display device communicates with the content and configuration server in order to retrieve any new content that may be available. The digital image and metadata content provided by the content and configuration server is organized into groups of pictures that are grouped by some combination of the source of the content e.g. E mail Facebook or Kodak Gallery a unique identifier of the sender of that content e.g. the E mail address of the sender who provided the content and the date and time that the particular content was shared or the instance of sharing . In some embodiments a direct network upload sharing method can be used to provide content directly to the digital image display device . The direct network upload sharing method can make use of various interfaces such as the well known FTP or REST interfaces.

The digital image and metadata content provided by the content and configuration server may also be organized by other information related to each particular content such as the location where the particular content was captured keywords associated with the particular content names or identity of people captured in the particular content or things captured in the particular content.

The digital image and metadata content is obtained through a separate interface to content and configuration server and is stored using an appropriate non volatile storage not shown available to the content and configuration server . The content and configuration server sends a description of the new content to be stored on the digital image display device . The central processor in the digital image display device then individually retrieves each of the digital media assets defined by the content and configuration server and stores each digital media asset in the non volatile storage block in the digital image display device . The digital image display device also transfers metadata related to each digital media asset such as the sharing method e.g. E mail Facebook or Kodak Gallery an identifier for the individual providing the digital media asset an identifier of the sharing instance and any descriptive text available related to the digital media asset. In some embodiments the digital media assets are only downloaded from the content and configuration server at the time when they are to be displayed on the digital image display device and are not stored locally in the non volatile storage block in the digital image display device . In some embodiments the digital media assets are stored in non volatile storage block using a cache mechanism and the digital media assets are retrieved from the non volatile storage block if the digital media asset is stored in the non volatile storage block and has not been updated on the content and configuration server and further if the digital media asset is not stored in the non volatile storage block the central processor retrieves the digital media asset from the content and configuration server and stores the asset into the cache mechanism stored on the non volatile storage block . The details of the data cache mechanism will be familiar to one knowledgeable in the arts.

The user can add content to the digital image display device by using a web browser upload sharing method via the web pages user interface block to upload digital images and other digital media assets to the web page server . The web page server then stores these digital media assets and appropriate metadata.

In obtain configuration information step the digital image display device communicates with the content and configuration server in order to retrieve configuration information. The configuration information includes settings such as the type of slideshow transition the time interval for displaying each slideshow image and the time of day to automatically turn the digital image display device on and off.

In some embodiments factory default configuration information is stored on the content and configuration server automatically when a digital image display device is registered. The user can utilize the web pages user interface block to modify the configuration information. Additionally configuration information can be modified by a system administrator using the administrator configuration user interface in order to address any service related issues or to provide updates.

As will be described later in reference to the user can use the web pages user interface block to permit E mail transfer of digital media assets to their particular digital image display device . In this case the user enters a specific E mail address to enable content to be sent to their digital image display device . When E mail is sent typically by others to that address on the E mail server the digital images and other relevant content is extracted from the E mail and transferred to the digital image and metadata content storage . Metadata about the sender sharing date etc. is also stored in association with this content.

The user can also use the web pages user interface block to configure their digital image display device to receive digital media assets that are provided from one or more content providing systems through various external services on the Internet. There are two primary mechanisms for how content is transferred from the external content providing systems depending on how the external system operates.

In a first pull mechanism the content and configuration server periodically polls the external content media server to determine whether new external digital image and metadata content is available from external content host . If new content is available the content and configuration server retrieves the metadata for the new content and stores it in the digital image and metadata content storage . The original digital media asset data e.g. still digital image or digital video file is not transferred. When the digital image display device later retrieves the list of digital media assets to retrieve the URL for this new digital media asset will point back to the corresponding external content media server .

In a second push mechanism the external content media server provides a notification when new external digital image and metadata content is available from external content host . In this case the content and configuration server configures the external content media server to provide a notification whenever relevant additions or changes are made for the content requested. The external content media server then notifies the content and configuration server when content is added modified or removed. The content and configuration server then updates the digital image and metadata content stored on the digital image and metadata content storage to reflect the new state of the external content providing systems . It will be understood that the content and configuration server stores configuration information for a large number of digital image display device units and that each digital image display device can be configured to permit content to be provided from a number of different external content providing systems such as Facebook Flickr Kodak Gallery etc. using pull or push mechanisms. The obtain and store new content step and the obtain configuration information step are repeated at regular intervals e.g. every ten minutes in order to obtain new content for digital image display device . In another embodiment the obtain configuration information step can be initiated by a message being pushed from the content and configuration server to the digital image display device that indicated new or updated content may be available on the content and configuration server .

In some embodiments the digital image display device has an informational mode as well as a pictorial digital media asset mode. The informational mode of digital image display device displays various information such as news headlines financial data advertising and the like. The information can be displayed instead of or along with the pictorial digital media assets. In the latter case the digital image display device dedicates a portion of the display screen to pictorial display while another portion of the screen is apportioned to informational display. The informational display can be located adjacent to the pictorial display or can be overlaid on top of the pictorial display. The information to be displayed can be provided using the system depicted in . The types of information to be provided can be configured for a particular user of digital image display device by using the web pages user interface block to select the particular information of interest to the user. This can include information about particular stocks sport teams weather reports news categories shopping gambling etc. which are of interest to the user. In some embodiments the information can be provided by various information content web servers not shown which provide content to the content and configuration server . In other embodiments the digital image display device can communicate directly with the external web sites not shown that provide the information in order to receive and display web pages using a web browser implemented in the digital image display device .

In provide unique device identifier step the company supplying the digital image display device provides a unique device identifier which is stored in the non volatile storage block of the digital image display device . In some embodiments this unique device identifier is related to an activation code provided on the outside of the packaging used to package the digital image display device . For example the activation code can be a sticker affixed to the outside of a sealed box which contains the digital image display device . Providing the activation code on the outside of the package enables the person who is giving the gift i.e. the purchaser to pre configure the digital image display device without having to open the manufacturers original packaging. This enables the digital image display device to be personalized by the purchaser for the person receiving the gift i.e. the recipient while preserving the integrity of the original packaging. Moreover the unique device identifier can be made available to the purchaser e.g. via phone E mail postal letter or the like without requiring the purchaser to have physical access to the digital image display device .

In some embodiments the activation code is the product serial number for the digital image display device or an encrypted code derived from the product serial number. Alternately the activation code can be some other unique identifier associated with the digital image display device . As a result it is unique for every unit of a given type of digital image display device . The use of encryption has the advantage that it makes it difficult for another person to guess at a series of activation codes thereby stealing codes and being able to play pranks by putting pictures on yet to be purchased frames.

For example the encrypted code can be a sparsely populated sequence of numbers such that only 1 code is valid in 10 s of thousands of possibilities. Furthermore the sequential codes can be made highly variable such that guessing one code by knowing another is not obvious.

In some embodiments the unique device identifier is made available to the purchaser of the digital image display device electronically. For example the purchaser may use an Internet website to purchase the digital image display device for his or her parents. This may be accomplished using the methods described in commonly assigned U.S. Pat. No. 6 937 997 to Parulski entitled Configuring and purchasing imaging devices which is incorporated herein by reference. The purchaser s parents can live in another city or even another country with different power plug requirements. The on line retailer ships the digital image display device directly to the purchaser s parents from their regional warehouse in the same country as the parents reside. The on line retailer then sends an E mail to the purchaser providing the unique device identifier which can be an activation code.

In supply content step the web page server provides a web pages user interface block which enables a content supplier to specify digital image content to be transferred to the digital image display device that is associated with the unique device identifier that was provided in the provide unique device identifier step . The content supplier may be the purchaser of the digital image display device or may be another person or party to whom the purchaser delegates this task. The content supplier uses the activation code to register the digital image display device and then to select digital media content that is to be transferred to the digital image display device after it is received by the recipient.

In some embodiments the unique identifier can be supplied as part of an Email or other electronic message received from the retailer which provided the digital image display device so that it does not have to be manually entered by the purchaser or other content supplier. For example an on line retailer may send the purchaser an E mail which includes a link associated with a particular activation code. When the purchaser clicks on the link in this E mail their computer can be directed to a web page having a version of the graphical user interface that does not require unique identifier entry section . The E mail link enables the content selections made by the content provider to be automatically associated with the particular digital image display device without the content supplier either entering or even seeing the unique identifier that has been provided to them.

The graphical user interface also includes an account creation section which enables the content supplier to create an account for the particular digital image display device associated with the activation code on the content and configuration server . The account creation section prompts the content supplier to enter a name e.g. Larry Smith and to specify an account name A e.g. LarryFrame1 and an account password B e.g. MIT174EVER . The content supplier can update the selections made using graphical user interface at a later date by logging in using the account name and password rather than requiring the content supplier to reenter the activation code . It will be understood that the content and configuration server stores digital image and metadata content for a large number of different accounts each associated with a particular digital image display device using digital image and metadata content storage .

The graphical user interface also includes content selection entry section which enables the content supplier to define a user E mail address in E mail address portion by specifying an account identifier e.g. Larry1 that will be appended to a predetermined E mail address portion e.g. Kodakpulse.com to create an E mail address. The resulting E mail address e.g. Larry1 Kodakpulse.com enables digital image content to be transferred over the Internet to the digital image display device associated with the activation code entered in unique identifier entry section .

The content selection entry section also includes icons A B and C that can be used to select digital image content e.g. digital still images or digital videos from various content sources. These content sources can include the content supplier s computer which is selected using icon A a social networking website e.g. Facebook which is selected using icon B and an image sharing website e.g. Kodak Gallery which is selected using icon C.

When the content supplier selects My Computer icon A a new user interface screen not shown is activated to enable the content supplier to select digital image content stored on their computer to be supplied to the digital image display device . This can be done for example by selecting specific digital images or collections of digital images e.g. a folder of images that are stored on a hard drive or some other memory accessible on their computer.

When the content supplier selects the Facebook icon B a new user interface screen not shown is activated to enable the content supplier to select a particular Facebook account or a plurality of Facebook accounts that will be used to supply images to the digital image display device . This can be done for example by selecting Facebook accounts corresponding to specific friends. . When the friend s Facebook pages are updated the new images can be automatically supplied to the digital image display device . Alternately specific digital images or albums associated with a particular Facebook account can be selected in order to display only a portion of the digital images associated with a particular Facebook account.

When the content supplier selects Kodak Gallery icon C a new user interface screen not shown is activated to enable the content supplier to select one or more Kodak Gallery accounts that will be used to supply images to the digital image display device . When new digital images are added to these accounts the new digital images can be automatically supplied to the digital image display device . Alternately specific albums associated with the specified Kodak Gallery accounts can be identified in order to display only a portion of the digital images associated with a particular Kodak Gallery account.

The remote graphical user interface also includes a display screen controls section which enable the content supplier to selectively disable some or all of the user interface controls of the digital image display device that is associated with the activation code . The user interface controls in the display screen controls section enable the content supplier to select between three options A B and C. An On option A enables all of the user interface controls of the digital image display device to operate normally. A Mostly Off option B disables all of the user interface controls of the digital image display device except for a small subset of user interface controls. For example the Mostly Off option B may enable only the forward and reverse function buttons described earlier in relation to . An All Off option C is selected by the content supplier in order to selectively disable all of the user interface controls of the digital image display device which is associated with the activation code . The selected option in this case All Off option C is highlighted using a bold underline font.

The display screen controls section includes a message entry area which enable the content supplier to input a message e.g. Call Larry for changes that will be displayed on the display of the digital image display device when the user attempts to activate one of the user interface controls that has been disabled. This message allows the user who may be an elderly grandparent to understand that their digital image display device is functioning properly and guides them concerning who to contact if they desire to modify the operation of their digital image display device .

The graphical user interface also includes a display screen power mode section . The display screen power mode section enables the content provider to select an on time which is the time when the power control circuit in the digital image display device will activate the active display mode and begin displaying digital images each day. The display screen power mode section also enables the content provider to select an off time which is the time when the power control circuit in the digital image display device will activate the reduced power mode and stop displaying digital images each day. In some embodiments different on times and off times can be specified for weekdays and weekends to reflect the fact that users may have different viewing habits on those days due to work schedules.

In some embodiments the display screen power mode section can include user interface elements not shown to enable a user to specify an inactive time of day interval during which the power control circuit will continue to operate in the reduced power mode if any new digital images are received from the content and configuration server . For example the inactive time of day interval can be specified to correspond to the hours that the user is generally asleep so that the digital image display device will not display images when there is no one there to observe the images or when the light from the display screen might disturb the user. In this case if any digital images are received during the inactive time interval then when the inactive time interval ends the power control circuit can automatically be set to operate in the active display mode and the stored received digital images will be displayed on the display screen .

The display screen power mode section also enables the content provider to select either a Yes option A or a No option B which determines whether the power control circuit in the digital image display device will activate the active display mode and begin displaying new digital images when new digital images are received by the digital image display device even if the power control circuit is in the reduced power mode when the new digital images are received.

The graphical user interface also includes a remote viewing interface section . The remote viewing interface section can display a digital media asset such as a digital still image or a digital video image which corresponds to the digital media asset currently displayed on the display screen of the digital image display device . This enables the content provider to know what digital media asset the viewer of the digital image display device is currently viewing. This can be useful if the content provider is on the phone with the viewer and would like to comment on a particular digital image.

The remote viewing interface section can also display metadata associated with the displayed digital media asset. In the example of the metadata includes a digital media asset identifier e.g. Image and a digital media asset type e.g. video . The metadata also includes a digital media asset source e.g. Mike providing an indication of the person who provided the asset and a digital media asset sharing method e.g. E mail providing an indication of the sharing method by which the digital media asset was provided. For example sharing methods can include an E mail sharing method i.e. E mail social networking website sharing methods e.g. Facebook digital image sharing website sharing methods e.g. Kodak Gallery web browser upload sharing methods e.g. Web Upload or direct network upload sharing methods e.g. Network Upload . The metadata also includes a sharing date Shared which provides the date on which the digital media asset was transferred to the digital image display device as well as a capture date Captured which is the date that the digital media asset was captured by a digital camera or scanned by a digital image scanner. The capture date metadata can be provided for example by the date time metadata included in the well known Exif JPEG image format when the digital media asset was captured by a digital camera.

It will be understood that many other types of metadata can be displayed in association with the digital media asset . This metadata can include for example the names of people pictured in the digital media asset which can be provided either manually by users or using a face recognition algorithm. Likewise the metadata can include the names of objects pictured in the digital media asset or capture locations for the digital media asset . The metadata can also include other types of metadata such as album names event names captions keywords and the like.

For cases where the digital image display devices is configured to simultaneously display a plurality of digital images in a collage format the remote viewing interface section can show information indicating each of the stored digital images that is currently displayed on the display screen e.g. a representation of each digital image or metadata relating to each digital image .

It will be understood that in some embodiments the remote viewing interface section can include controls not shown which enable the content provider to change which digital media asset is currently displayed on the display screen of the digital image display device . The controls may include for example forward and backward controls to display the next or previous digital media asset in a sequence respectively. The controls may also include a display of many thumbnail images and a selector e.g. a cursor that enables the content provider to select a particular digital media asset to display on the display screen of the digital image display device.

In some embodiments if the digital image display device has not yet been unpacked from its package and connected to the network as will be described later in reference to the detect device connection step of the remote viewing interface section can display a message indicating that the digital image display device has not yet been connected to the network. This information can be used by the content provider to determine that the recipient of a gift of the digital image display device may not have yet received it or may not understand how to unpack it and connect it to a network. Similarly if the digital image display device has previously been connected to a network but is currently disconnected the remote viewing interface section can display a message indicating that the digital image display device is currently inactive. In some embodiments if the digital image display device is in a reduced power mode the remote viewing interface section can display a message indicating that the digital image display device is currently in the reduced power mode.

The remote graphical user interface also includes a display mode and picture management section which enables the content provider to select various preference settings. For example the content provider can select between various display mode options provided by the digital image display device . In the example of the content provider can select between several different image display styles including a fill the screen with one image option A thus cropping off a portion of images having an aspect ratio that does not match the aspect ratio of display screen . Alternatively the content provider can select a show entire image option B which displays the entire digital image on the display screen using black or colored borders to pad the edges of the digital image. Alternatively the content provider can select a use collage option C to show a group of images together as a collage.

The display mode and picture management section also enables the content provider to select between two picture management options including a first delete pictures myself option D where digital media assets stored in the non volatile storage block of the digital image display device are manually deleted and a second automatically delete oldest pictures option E where the oldest images e.g. the images associated with metadata having the oldest shared date are automatically deleted from the non volatile storage block by the central processor in order to free up sufficient memory so that newly received digital media assets can be stored in the non volatile storage block . If the non volatile storage block become full when the delete pictures myself option D is selected then new digital images can not be automatically downloaded to the digital image display device . In this case a warning message can be displayed in the display mode and picture management section indicating that the memory is full.

The graphical user interface also includes a picture display duration section which enables the content provider to select between various picture display durations such as fixed display duration options of 10 second 30 seconds or 30 minutes or smart display duration options A and B. The smart display duration options A and B include a first smart display duration option A that uses display durations of 10 seconds to 10 minutes and a second smart display duration option B that uses display durations of 30 seconds to 30 minutes. These smart display duration options will be described later with reference to .

It will be understood that in some embodiments the graphical user interface can enable the content provider to choose between many other options related to how digital media assets are displayed on the display screen of the digital image display device providing many other types of preference settings. This can include choosing image transition methods e.g. fades wipes pulls etc. image display sequence e.g. random sequence sorted by date and image display effects e.g. zoom and pan . It will be further understood that in some embodiments the graphical user interface can be used to select customized content to be displayed on the digital image display device based on the date provided by the real time clock as described in commonly assigned co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 911 959 to Krolczyk et al entitled Digital media frame providing customized content which is incorporated herein by reference. It will be further understood that in some embodiments the graphical user interface could be used to create icons for individuals who are or are expected to be the source of digital images provided to the digital image display device as described in commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 946 055 filed Nov. 15 2010 to Landry et al. entitled Image display device providing improved media selection which is incorporated herein by reference.

Returning to a discussion of in detect device connection step the recipient receives the digital image display device unpacks it and plugs it into a wall outlet to provide power to the power supply . If the network interface block is a wired interface such as an Ethernet interface or a telephone interface the recipient plugs an interface wire into the network interface block and the corresponding interface outlet e.g. an Ethernet interface or a telephone outlet . If the network interface block is a wireless interface such as a WiFi interface or a cellular telephone interface there is no need to provide an interface cable. In this case the recipient can be prompted to select the desired WiFi wireless connection point and enter any associated network passwords.

After the digital image display device is connected to the network the central processor then automatically attempts to establish a connection with the routing server as described earlier in relation to the identify server s step of . The central processor then queries the authentication server for a security code as described earlier in relation to the obtain security code token step of . The central processor then communicates with the content and configuration server and transmits an indication of the unique identifier stored in the non volatile storage block . The indication of the unique identifier is received by the content and configuration server which detects the device connection and uses the indication of the unique identifier to associate the particular digital image display device with the digital media assets supplied by the content supplier in supply content step .

In transfer content to device step the digital media assets supplied by the content supplier in supply content step are transferred to the digital image display device and stored in the non volatile storage block . To accomplish this transfer the content and configuration server accesses the digital image and metadata content storage in order to obtain the digital media assets in the account that was previously created by the content supplier in supply content step . In some embodiments additional digital media assets can be transferred to the digital image display device directly from one or more content providing services as described earlier in relation to . Moreover the various preference settings and other selections made by the content provider in supply content step are transferred from the content and configuration server over the network to the network interface block and are stored in the non volatile storage block in order to configure the digital image display device according to the configuration information provided by the content provider e.g. the purchaser in supply content step .

As soon as the first digital media asset is received by the digital image display device it can immediately be displayed on the display screen while additional digital media assets are being received. The additional digital media assets can then be automatically displayed using a slide show mode or another display mode based on the selections made by the content provider in supply content step .

In some embodiments the user of the digital image display device is queried to verify that the user is willing to accept digital image content from a particular content supplier before it is transferred in the transfer content to device step . This can prevent content provided by a person unfamiliar to the user such as a hacker from being displayed on the display screen . The content provider can be identified by the name or the account name A supplied using the graphical user interface .

In some embodiments the user of the digital image display device is enabled to specify a list of approved content suppliers from whom they are willing to accept digital image content. Any digital image content from an approved content supplier will then be automatically transferred to the digital image display device . Alternatively the user of the digital image display device can be permitted to specify a list of disapproved content suppliers from whom they are not willing to accept digital image content and the digital image content from a disapproved content supplier will be rejected rather than being transferred to the digital image display device . The user of the digital image display device can be prompted for whether to accept digital image content from content suppliers who are not on the approved content provider list or the disapproved content provider list.

The method for providing digital image content described in relation to provides a superior user experience when the digital image display device is given as a gift since the receiver of the gift does not have to learn any new techniques to be able to enjoy and use their new digital image display device . In the case where the digital image display device is given as a gift to family members such as parents or grandparents the user experience of the digital image display device is enhanced if personalized pictures of the family selected by the content supplier are displayed soon after the digital image display device is unpacked and turned on.

In provide remote interface step the image content and configuration server communicates with web page server which provides a web pages user interface block having a remote viewing interface section as described earlier in relation to . As was described earlier in some embodiments the remote viewing interface section can include various remote user interface controls not shown in .

In transfer images step a plurality of digital media assets such as digital still images or digital video images are transferred by content and configuration server over the network to network interface block of the digital image display device . The transferred digital media assets are stored in the non volatile storage block . The digital media assets may be transferred at the time that the user is accessing the remote viewing interface section or they may have been transferred at an earlier time either automatically or manually.

In display image locally step a first digital media asset such as a digital still image is read from the non volatile storage block processed by the central processor and displayed on the display screen as described earlier in reference to . The display order can be obtained from a list as described earlier in relation to the obtain list of digital media assets step of .

In some embodiments the image to be displayed locally in display image locally step can be controlled by a remote user interface as described earlier in relation to the remote viewing interface section of . In such embodiments in response to a content provider selecting a particular digital media asset to be displayed using the remote user interface digital media asset identification metadata that identifies one of the digital media assets currently stored in the non volatile storage block is communicated from the content and configuration server to the digital image display device . The central processor uses this digital media asset identification metadata to select the particular digital media asset for display in the display image locally step .

In display image remotely step the remote viewing interface section displays information indicating which of the digital media assets is currently being displayed on the display screen . This information can include an image display showing a representation of the digital media asset e.g. the digital media asset itself or a thumbnail image showing a low resolution version of the digital media asset . It can also include metadata which identifies the digital media asset e.g. a filename . It will be understood that as a result of network communications and processing delays there may be a short time difference e.g. a few seconds between the time the digital image displayed on the display screen changes according to the display image locally step and the time that image and metadata displayed on the remote viewing interface section changes according to the display image remotely step .

The display image locally step and the display image remotely step can be repeated in order to display a sequence of digital media assets. This sequence can be controlled automatically for example when the digital image display device is set to operate in an automatic slideshow mode. This sequence can also be controlled manually using the user input interfaces block on the digital image display device for example using forward and backward buttons. In some embodiments the sequence can also be controlled manually using the graphical user interface as was described earlier in reference to . In such a situation it may be desirable to temporarily disable some of all of the user input interfaces block of the digital image display device in order to prevent conflicting user interface instructions.

In receive digital images step the digital image display device receives one or more digital images or other digital media assets from the content and configuration server using the network interface block . This can be accomplished as described earlier in relation to the obtain and store new content step of .

In a store received digital images step the received digital images or other digital media assets are stored in non volatile storage block or using a removable storage media connected to media interface block under the control of the central processor .

In power mode test the central processor determines if power control circuit is currently set to operate in the reduced power mode or the active display mode. This can be done for example by checking a stored parameter register or control signal which indicates the current power mode.

It will be understood that the reduced power mode setting can be the result of the user turning the digital image display device to an off setting using one of the user input interfaces block or can be the result of the default behavior of the power control circuit when it is controlled responsive to the time of day determined using a real time clock as described earlier in reference to power supply . Thus the default behavior of the power control circuit can be set by the user who can specify one or more time of day intervals during which the power control circuit will be set to operate in the reduced power mode.

The default behavior of the power control circuit can also be defined by a set of time parameters received by the digital image display device from the content and configuration server via the network interface block . These parameters can be set by a remote individual using a remote user interface such as the display screen power mode section described earlier in reference to . For example the on time and the off time can be used to specify parameters that are provided to the digital image display device by the content and configuration server in obtain configuration information step . It will be understood that in some embodiments the remote graphical user interface can enable the remote individual to enter several different time of day intervals during which the power control circuit will be set to operate in the reduced power mode.

If the power mode test determines that the power control circuit is currently operating in the reduced power mode a set active mode step sets the power control circuit to operate in the active display mode. If the power mode test determines that the power control circuit is currently operating in the active display mode execution proceeds directly to display received images step . It will be understood that in some embodiments the central processor can automatically set the power control circuit to the active display mode without first checking the power mode in the power mode test . In this case if the power control circuit is already in the active display mode this action will have no effect.

In display received images step the central processor displays the stored received images on the display screen of the digital image display device . In some embodiments the central processor stores the power mode determined by the power mode test and if the power control circuit was in the reduced power mode setting at the time the power mode test was executed it resets the power control circuit to the reduced power mode after displaying the stored received digital images. The received digital images and other digital media assets may be displayed for a predetermined period of time or each received digital media asset may be displayed for a predetermined number of times prior to returning to the reduced power mode setting.

In receive digital images step the central processor communicates via the network interface block to receive digital images and other digital media assets from the content and configuration server as described earlier in reference to the obtain and store new content step of . The received digital media assets are stored in non volatile storage block or using a removable storage media connected to media interface block .

In receive control information step the central processor communicates via the network interface block to receive user interface control information and other types of device configuration information from the content and configuration server as described earlier in reference to the obtain configuration information step of . This user interface control information can include one or more display screen control parameters that were obtained from the web pages user interface block as a result of selections made by a graphical user interface having a remote individual using the display screen controls section as shown in . In a preferred embodiment the display screen control parameters include a parameter providing an indication of whether the user interface of the digital image display device should be on if the remote individual has selected the On option A mostly off if the remote individual has selected the Mostly Off option B or entirely off if the remote individual has selected the All Off option C . In some embodiments the display screen control parameters can also include a message parameter entered in the message entry area e.g. Call Larry for changes that can be displayed on the display screen if the user of the digital image display device attempts to activate one of the user input interfaces block that has been disabled.

The control information received in the receive control information step can also include display mode information such as the picture display duration selected by the remote individual using picture display duration section . In this example the display modes include a slideshow display mode and the display mode information received from the content and configuration server includes information defining the predetermined period of time e.g. 30 seconds during which images are to be displayed during the slideshow mode.

A display screen controls test is used to evaluate a received display screen control parameter setting such as a parameter corresponding to the setting selected in the display screen controls section of . If the display screen controls test determines that the user interface of the digital image display device should be on e.g. if the remote individual has selected the On option A then an enable user interface step is executed that enables all of the user interface elements in the user input interfaces block .

If the display screen controls test determines that the user interface of the digital image display device should be mostly off e.g. if the remote individual has selected the Mostly Off option B then a partially disable user interface step is executed that disables a portion of the user interface elements in the user input interfaces block . For example any user interface elements that are used to control the display mode may be disabled while the forward and reverse function buttons that were described with in relation to may be enabled.

If the display screen controls test determines that the user interface of the digital image display device should be entirely off e.g. if the remote individual has selected the All Off option C then a disable user interface step is executed that disables all of the user interface elements in the user input interfaces block .

In the partially disable user interface step and the disable user interface step the received user interface control information is used to selectively disable at least a portion of the user input interfaces block of the digital image display device .

Finally a display received images step is used to display the received digital images on the display screen with the user interface configured according to the received user interface control information. In the case where the user interface has been either fully or partially disabled the disabled user interface elements will have no effect if they are activated by a user. In some embodiments if the user of the digital image display device attempts to activate one of the user interface elements that has been disabled the central processor displays an informational message on the display screen . The message can be a default message such as This button has been disabled or the message can be one which was defined by the remote individual by entering a text string in the message entry area and received by the digital image display device over the network via the network interface block in the receive control information step .

In receive digital images step a group of digital images or other digital media assets are received and stored in non volatile storage block or using a removable storage media connected to media interface block . The digital media assets may be received via the network interface block from the content and configuration server or may be provided using a removable storage media or a local connection to a computer or another image capable device. In some embodiments it can be desirable to play some sort of alert sound to provide notification to users in the vicinity of the digital image display device that new digital images have been received and are available for viewing.

In initiate slideshow step the central processor initiates the display of a sequence of digital images or other digital media assets. In some embodiments the initiate slideshow step is performed automatically in response to receiving new digital images in receive digital images step . In some embodiments the initiate slideshow step can also be initiated using other methods such as by activating various user interface elements. Preferably the sequence of digital images includes at least a subset of the digital images received in receive digital images step . In some embodiments the sequence of digital images includes only the newly received digital images. In other embodiments the sequence of digital images can also include previously received digital images. For example the newly received digital images can be included first at the beginning of the sequence of digital images followed by some or all of the previously received digital images.

The sequence of digital images displayed on the display screen will be displayed using a variable image display duration responsive to the time since the slideshow was initiated. A get initial time step is used to determine an initial time that the slideshow was initiated. An indication of the initial time is stored in non volatile storage block . In a preferred embodiment the initial time is determined by accessing a real time clock included in the digital image display device . In other embodiments the initial time can be determined according to a real time clock located at a different network node that can be accessed using the network interface block .

In get current time step the central processor determines a current time . In a preferred embodiment the current time is determined by accessing the real time clock included in the digital image display device . In other embodiments the current time can be determined according to a real time clock located at a different network node that can be accessed using the network interface block .

A determine image display duration step determines an image display duration for the next digital image in the sequence of digital image. In a preferred embodiment the image display duration is responsive to the current time and the initial time . In some embodiments the determine image display duration step calculates an elapsed time since the slideshow was initiated by determining a difference between the current time and the initial time . The image display duration is then determined responsive to the elapsed time. In one embodiment if the elapsed time is less than a threshold time difference then a first short image display duration is used and if the elapsed time is greater than the threshold time difference then a second long image display duration is used.

In some embodiments the first short image display duration and the second long image display duration can be selected by the user of the digital image display device using user input interfaces block or by a remote individual using for example picture display duration section described earlier in reference to . For example the first short image display duration can be selected to be 10 seconds by selecting smart display duration option A or to be 30 seconds by selecting smart display duration option B . Likewise the second long image display duration can be selected to be 10 minutes by selecting smart display duration option A or to be 30 minutes by selecting smart display duration option B .

The threshold time difference can be predefined e.g. 10 minutes or can be associated with the selected smart display duration option or in some embodiments can be user selectable using user interface elements not shown . In some embodiments the image display duration may be changed gradually or in steps rather than changing it abruptly from the first short image display duration to the long image display duration. For example the image display duration can be gradually increased by incrementing the image display duration to increasingly longer values as the elapsed time exceeds additional threshold time values e.g. the image display duration can be increased to 3 minutes after 20 minutes has elapsed and 10 minutes after 1 hour has elapsed .

In some embodiments rather than the image display duration being determined responsive to the elapsed time since the slideshow was initiated it can be determined according to other factors. For example a first short image display duration can be used the first time each of the digital images in the sequence of digital images is displayed. Then a second longer image display duration can be used when the slideshow repeats the sequence of digital images.

In some embodiments the image display duration for a particular image can be adjusted responsive to metadata such as an importance rating associated with the particular image. For example if the importance metadata provides a star rating of between 1 and 5 stars the display duration can be increased for images having higher star ratings. This may be accomplished for example by multiplying the current display duration by a factor equal to 0.5 for 1 star rated images 1 for 2 star and 3 star rated images 2 for 4 star rated images and 4 for 5 star rated images. In addition the importance rating can also be used to determine whether to eliminate low rated images from a slideshow. For example images that are rated 1 star or 2 star may be eliminated from the sequence when it is repeated multiple times with longer image display durations.

Once the image display duration has been determined by the determine image display duration step the next digital image in the sequence of digital images is displayed using a display next received digital image step according to the determined image display duration.

A done with slideshow test is used to determine whether the slideshow should be terminated. If so then a return to normal mode step is used to return the digital image display device to a normal operation state e.g. the state that the device was in before the slideshow was initiated . Otherwise the get current time step is executed again to determine the image display duration for the next digital image. In some embodiments the slideshow will play indefinitely until the user turns off the digital image display device or until the digital image display device is placed into a reduced power mode e.g. according to the off time specified in the display screen power mode section of .

In some embodiments if the digital image display device receives digital images or other digital media assets over the network interface block the central processor automatically executes the initiate slideshow step and the get initial time step to reset the initial time so that the newly received digital media assets can be viewed by the user in a relatively rapid sequence. In embodiments where the digital image display device includes a power control circuit for enabling an active display mode for displaying digital images on the display screen and a reduced power mode wherein the display screen does not display digital images as described earlier in reference to the central processor can automatically set the display mode to the active display mode when new digital media assets are received from the network and can then initiate the display of a slideshow according to the method of .

It will be understood that the digital images and metadata can be provided to the digital image display device using configurations other that the one depicted in . For example a personal computer connected to the Internet can be used to obtain digital images and metadata from a variety of individuals. The digital images and metadata can be provided for example by email server or content providing systems . The digital images and metadata can then be stored on a removable storage device such as a SD memory card or a USB jump drive. The removable storage device can then be removed from the personal computer and connected to the media interface block of the digital image display device . The digital images and metadata can then be transferred under the control of central processor from the removable storage device to the non volatile storage block .

A computer program product can include one or more storage medium for example magnetic storage media such as magnetic disk such as a floppy disk or magnetic tape optical storage media such as optical disk optical tape or machine readable bar code solid state electronic storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM or any other physical device or media employed to store a computer program having instructions for controlling one or more computers to practice the method according to the present invention.

The invention has been described in detail with particular reference to certain exemplary embodiments thereof. It will however be understood that variations and modifications can be effected within the spirit and scope of the invention. The present specification and figures are accordingly to be regarded as illustrative rather than restrictive.

