---

title: Intelligent message processing
abstract: Systems, methods, and devices for intelligent message processing are presented. With regard to a message, an intelligent message processor component (IMPC) can intelligently identify a desired file folder and archive the message in the folder in response to as little as one user interface (UI) control manipulation (e.g., click), when the intelligent message processor UI (IMPUI) is activated. When the IMPUI is activated, the IMPC automatically parses the message and identifies, or allows the user to identify, a keyword/phrase in the message. The IMPC automatically identifies the desired folder based on the identified keyword/phrase, and the user can click on the identified keyword/phrase to store the message in the identified file folder. The IMPUI also can comprise other UI controls that can, e.g., forward a message to another user, archive the message or related attachment in a remote storage destination, perform a customized message process, etc.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09251508&OS=09251508&RS=09251508
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P.
number: 09251508
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101209
---
The subject specification generally relates to electronic communication services and more particularly to systems methods and devices for intelligent message processing.

Communication device users often use their communication devices e.g. computer mobile phone electronic notepad electronic netbook etc. to receive and send electronic messages e.g. emails text messages multimedia messages . Some users e.g. business persons attorneys legal assistants etc. often receive dozens to hundreds of electronic messages every day. Managing the high volume of electronic messages can be very time consuming for users. For instance when a user receives an email regarding a particular business matter the user can desire to save the email to an electronic folder relating to that business matter. Currently the user has to search for and locate the folder and move e.g. drag the email to and or save the email in the folder. Performing such searching locating moving and other message processing for a high volume of messages each day can be very time consuming and an inefficient use of the user s time.

Further in addition to the messages themselves some messages can have for example attachments e.g. electronic files such as word processing documents portable document format PDF documents music or video files etc. links to online pages or sites e.g. web pages or web sites contact information relating to the message sender or others etc. wherein the user can desire to save an attachment a link contact information or other information which was received in a message in a desired electronic folder or open and perceive e.g. view the documents or play the file using a desired application. Currently to save the attachment link or information in a desired folder like with the message itself the user must search for and locate the folder and move e.g. drag the attachment link or information to and or save it in the folder. Again performing such searching locating moving and other processing of attachments links or other information for a high volume of messages each day can be very time consuming and an inefficient use of the user s time.

The above described deficiencies of today s systems are merely intended to provide an overview of some of the problems of conventional systems and are not intended to be exhaustive. Other problems with the state of the art and corresponding benefits of some of the various non limiting embodiments may become further apparent upon review of the following detailed description.

The following presents a simplified summary of the various embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects described herein. This summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosed subject matter. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the disclosed subject matter nor delineate the scope of the subject embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of the disclosed subject matter in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Systems methods and devices that provide for intelligent message processing are presented. In accordance with various aspects with regard to a message an intelligent message processor component IMPC can intelligently identify a desired file folder and archive the message in the folder in response to as little as one user interface UI control manipulation e.g. mouse click button press display screen touch or key stroke when the intelligent message processor UI IMPUI component is activated. In an aspect when the IMPUI component is activated e.g. in response to selection of a message processing control such as an ARCHIVE control the IMPC can automatically parse the message and identify or can allow the user to identify a keyword s or keyphrase s in the message that can be indicative of the file folder in which storage of the message and or related attachments links or information e.g. contact information contained in the message time deadline information etc. is or may be desired. The IMPC can automatically identify the desired file folder or one or more potentially desired file folders based at least in part on the identified keyword s or keyphrase s and tag words or phrases respectively associated with file folders stored in the data store. If there is only one file folder in the data store that is associated with an identified keyword or keyphrase the message can be stored e.g. automatically stored in the folder if the user selects the identified keyword or keyphrase in the message which can be performed with as little as one UI control manipulation e.g. the message can be stored in the desired file folder in response to as little as one click on or selection of the identified keyword or keyphrase without the user having to search for and locate the file folder in the directory of the data store. If the identified keyword or keyphrase is associated with more than one potentially desired file folder in response to receiving input from the user selecting the identified keyword or keyphrase the IMPC can present e.g. display a choice of potentially desired file folders to the user on the display screen of the IMPUI component. The user can manipulate e.g. click on or select the desired file folder from the presented potentially desired file folders and the IMPC can store the message in the selected file folder. The IMPUI also can comprise other message processing controls including desired custom message processing controls e.g. created by the user third party developers etc. that can be utilized for example to forward a message to another user archive the message or related attachment in a remote storage destination play an audio or a video file attached to the message access and store an online page or site associated with a link contained in the message or perform another desired customized message process on the message etc.

In accordance with various aspects the disclosed subject matter can comprise a system that includes an IMPC that is configured to analyze a message in accordance with at least one selected message processing control to facilitate process of the message. The system can further include an IMPUI component that is configured to present a subset of message processing controls usable to take at least one action relating to the process of the message.

In accordance with various other aspects the disclosed subject matter can comprise a method that includes the acts of analyzing a message based at least in part on at least one selected message processing control and performing at least one message processing action relating to the at least one selected message processing control.

In accordance with still other aspects the disclosed subject matter can comprise a communication device that includes an IMPC that is configured to analyze a message in accordance with at least one selected message processing control to facilitate process of the message. The communication device can further include an IMPUI component that is configured to present a subset of message processing controls usable to take at least one action relating to process of the message.

The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the disclosed subject matter. These aspects are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the various embodiments may be employed and the disclosed subject matter is intended to include all such aspects and their equivalents. Other advantages and distinctive features of the disclosed subject matter will become apparent from the following detailed description of the various embodiments when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The disclosed subject matter is described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various embodiments of the subject disclosure. It may be evident however that the disclosed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the various embodiments herein.

As used in this application the terms component system platform interface and the like can refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational machine with one or more specific functionalities. The entities disclosed herein can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal .

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Communication device users often use their communication devices e.g. computer mobile phone e.g. cellular phone smart phone personal digital assistant PDA electronic notepad electronic netbook electronic gaming device another type of electronic device with communication capabilities etc. to receive and send electronic messages e.g. emails text messages multimedia messages . Some users e.g. business persons attorneys legal assistants etc. often receive dozens to hundreds of electronic messages each day. Managing the high volume of electronic messages can be very time consuming for users. For instance when a user receives an email regarding a particular business matter the user can desire to save the email and or related attachment e.g. word processing document portable document format PDF document music or video file etc. or links e.g. link to an online page or site to an electronic file folder relating to that business matter. Today the user has to search for and locate the file folder in the directory and move e.g. drag the email or related attachment to and or save the email or related attachment in the file folder. Performing such searching locating moving and other message processing for a high volume of messages each day can be very time consuming and an inefficient use of the user s time. It is desirable to overcome these and other deficiencies in conventional messaging systems and methods.

To that end systems methods and devices that provide for intelligent message processing are presented. In accordance with various aspects with regard to a message an intelligent message processor component IMPC can intelligently identify a desired file folder and archive the message in the folder in response to as little as one user interface UI control manipulation e.g. mouse click button press display screen touch or key stroke when the intelligent message processor UI IMPUI component is activated. In an aspect when the IMPUI component is activated e.g. in response to selection of a message processing control such as an ARCHIVE control the IMPC can automatically parse the message and identify or can allow the user to identify a keyword s or keyphrase s in the message that can be indicative of the file folder in which storage of the message and or related attachments links or information e.g. contact information contained in the message time deadline information etc. is or may be desired. The IMPC can automatically identify the desired file folder or one or more potentially desired file folders based at least in part on the identified keyword s or keyphrase s and tag words or phrases respectively associated with file folders stored in the data store. If there is only one file folder in the data store that is associated with an identified keyword or keyphrase the message can be stored e.g. automatically stored in the folder if the user selects the identified keyword or keyphrase in the message which can be performed with as little as one UI control manipulation e.g. the message can be stored in the desired file folder in response to as little as one click on or selection of the identified keyword or keyphrase without the user having to search for and locate the file folder in the directory of the data store. If the identified keyword or keyphrase is associated with more than one potentially desired file folder in response to receiving input from the user selecting the identified keyword or keyphrase the IMPC can present e.g. display a choice of potentially desired file folders to the user on the display screen of the IMPUI component. The user can manipulate e.g. click on or select the desired file folder from the presented potentially desired file folders and the IMPC can store the message in the selected file folder. The IMPUI also can comprise other message processing controls including desired custom message processing controls e.g. created by the user third party developers etc. that can be utilized for example to forward a message to another user archive the message or related attachment in a remote storage destination play an audio or a video file attached to the message access and store an online page or site associated with a link contained in the message or perform another desired customized message process on the message etc.

Referring to the drawings is a block diagram of an example system that can intelligently process messages in accordance with various aspects and embodiments of the disclosed subject matter. In an aspect the system can include a user interface UI component that can provide one or more desired user interfaces such as for example display screen s controls or other components that a user can utilize to interact with the UI component and associated components of the system to facilitate performing desired actions including for example actions relating to the processing of messages e.g. electronic mail email text message multimedia message etc. and or related attachments or links e.g. link to an online page or site . In an aspect the UI component can be or can comprise an intelligent message processor UI IMPUI component that can be employed to facilitate intelligently and efficiently processing messages e.g. received messages sent messages to archive forward play message attachments store message attachments access links in messages store pages or sites associated with links in messages etc. to facilitate reducing or minimizing the actions and time required of a user to desirably process the messages e.g. received messages and or messages being sent . In accordance with various embodiments the UI component and or IMPUI component can comprise a graphical UI GUI or touch screen GUI.

As depicted the UI component is a separate entity that can be utilized with other components of system . However it is to be appreciated that the UI component and or similar view components can be incorporated into another component of the system and or a stand alone unit. The UI component and or IMPUI component can provide one or more GUIs command line interfaces and the like. For example a GUI can be rendered that provides a user with a region or means to load import read etc. data and can include a region to present the results of such. These regions can comprise known text and or graphic regions comprising dialogue boxes static controls drop down menus list boxes pop up menus as edit controls combo boxes radio buttons check boxes push buttons and graphic boxes. In addition utilities to facilitate the presentation such as vertical and or horizontal scroll bars for navigation and toolbar buttons to determine whether a region will be viewable can be employed. For example the user can interact with one or more of the components coupled and or incorporated into the system .

The user can also interact with the regions to select and provide information via various devices such as a mouse a trackpad e.g. a single touch or multi touch trackpad a roller ball a keypad a keyboard a pen and or voice activation for example. Typically a mechanism such as a push button or the enter key on the keyboard can be employed subsequent to entering the information in order to initiate the search. However it is to be appreciated that the disclosed subject matter is not so limited. For example merely highlighting a check box can initiate information conveyance. In another example a command line interface can be employed. For example the command line interface can prompt e.g. via a text message on a display and an audio tone the user for information via providing a text message. The user can provide suitable information such as alpha numeric input corresponding to an option provided in the interface prompt or an answer to a question posed in the prompt. It is to be appreciated that the command line interface can be employed in connection with a GUI and or API. In addition the command line interface can be employed in connection with hardware e.g. video cards and or displays with limited graphic support and or low bandwidth communication channels.

In accordance with various aspects the system can comprise an intelligent message processor component IMPC that can be associated with e.g. connected to the UI component to facilitate intelligently processing messages received by presented on or being sent via the UI component . In accordance with various aspects with regard to a message e.g. a message in a message display interface associated with a message application the IMPC can intelligently identify a desired file folder e.g. in a data store archive or repository and archive e.g. store the message in the file folder or take another desired action with regard to the message or associated content e.g. attachment link in response to as little as one UI control manipulation e.g. mouse click touching a button on a touch screen display screen button press or key stroke etc. when the IMPUI component is activated.

For instance in an aspect the IMPUI component can be activated by selecting a desired message processing control e.g. ARCHIVE control or other desired message processing control such as disclosed herein . When the IMPUI component is activated e.g. when the ARCHIVE control or other desired message processing control is selected the IMPC can automatically parse the message and identify or can allow the user to identify and select a keyword s or keyphrase s in the message that can be indicative of or associated with the file folder in which storage of the message and or related attachments links or information e.g. contact information contained in the message time deadline information etc. is or may be desired. The IMPC can automatically identify the desired file folder or a subset of potential file folders in a data store based at least in part on the identified keyword s or keyphrase s in or associated with the message e.g. when the keyword or keyphrase is selected by the user . The IMPC can store the message and or associated information e.g. attached file link in the message etc. in the desired file folder e.g. when only one file folder is associated with the selected keyword or keyphrase or can present e.g. display a choice of potential file folders associated with the selected keyword or keyphrase to the user in the IMPUI component . If the IMPC determines that no file folder relating to the message currently exists in the data store or the user does not desire to store the message in the identified file folder s the IMPUI component and or IMPC can allow the user to create a new file folder when desired e.g. if no file folder is identified or if none of the potential file folders is a file folder desired by the user .

Referring briefly to along with depicted is a diagram of an example email message that can be displayed on the display screen of the IMPUI component and intelligently processed using the IMPC and IMPUI of in accordance with various aspects of the disclosed subject matter. The IMPUI can present e.g. display the email message to a user such as the intended recipient of the message who in this example email message is Ben Franklin. For example the example email message can be received by an email server not shown in and presented in the IMPUI . In this example email message the message sender is John Hancock and the subject of the message is John Adams . In the body of the example email message a portion of the message states The attached document is about the Adams case. Also you might find the following link interesting http www.examplenews.com example Adams story. 

In an aspect if the user desires to archive the message in the desired file folder e.g. the Adams file folder the user can select e.g. press the ARCHIVE control on the IMPUI component wherein the selection of the ARCHIVE control can activate the IMPUI component and associated IMPC to begin to process e.g. intelligently process the email message . The IMPC can parse information associated with the email message wherein the information to be parsed can comprise for example the intended message recipient message sender information in the subject header information in the body of the message attachments e.g. name of an attachment information in the attachment metadata or properties associated with the attachment etc. metadata e.g. date information flag or priority information message properties etc. associated with the message etc. When parsing the email message and associated information the IMPC can employ desired predefined parsing criteria to facilitate identifying a keyword s or keyphrase s in the email message or associated information. The predefined parsing criteria can relate to for example the number of times a particular term phrase is used in the message or associated information the location of the term phrase in the message or associated information e.g. term in the subject header can have more weight and thus be more indicative of a desired keyword than another term in the body of a document attached to the message respective weights of respective terms or phrases associated with the message e.g. weighting of a term or phrase can be based at least in part on location of term or phrase in the message type of word whether the term or phrase matches or is at least substantially similar to a known tag word or phrase format of the term or phrase etc. the names of current file folders stored in the data store the file names and or content currently stored in the current file folders the type of word e.g. name noun verb preposition etc. the format of the alphanumeric characters e.g. whether a set of alphanumeric characters e.g. an alphanumeric term or phrase matches or is at least substantially similar to a known format associated with file folder names or client identifiers etc.

For instance the IMPC can analyze the information in and associated with the email message and employing the predefined parsing criteria the IMPC can identify e.g. automatically identify the word Adams in the email message as being a keyword that is the same as or relates to a file folder name e.g. file folder named Adams and or tagged with the word Adams to associate such file folder with the word Adams stored in the data store which can be associated with the IMPUI component and IMPC . For example the IMPC can compare the word Adams to current file folder names or tag words associated with respective current file folder names to facilitate identifying Adams as a keyword e.g. when Adams is identified as matching a current file folder name or associated tag . When a word or phrase in the message e.g. message is identified as a keyword or keyphrase based at least in part on a tag word or phrase the IMPC can associate e.g. temporarily associate the identified keyword or keyphrase with the file folder s associated with the tag word or phrase during the processing of the message. The IMPC can facilitate highlighting or emphasizing the keyword Adams in the message in the message display region of the IMPUI component . For example the keyword Adams can be highlighted or emphasized e.g. automatically highlighted or emphasized to distinguish or differentiate it from other words in the message in the message display region of the IMPUI component by encasing the keyword in a block as depicted in or by coloring to a desired color e.g. yellow the space wherein the keyword resides on the display screen by coloring to a desired color e.g. yellow the characters e.g. letters numbers other characters of the keyword by using a pointer to point to the keyword etc. With regard to the example email message additionally or alternatively any of the one or more other instances of the keyword Adams for example as shown in the subject header the link and or the file name of the attached file can be identified and highlighted by the IMPC in the message as desired.

In accordance with an aspect in certain instances more than one different word or phrase can or may be identified in a message e.g. Adams and Hancock in the message may both be identified as keywords or potential keywords when in accordance with the predefined parsing criteria . In such certain instances the respective different words or phrases can be highlighted or emphasized as respective identified keywords or keyphrases wherein the IMPC and or IMPUI component can highlight or emphasize the respective different words or phrases in a same manner e.g. using same highlight color for each different word or a different manner e.g. using different highlight colors for each different word as desired.

In another aspect the user can perceive the highlighted or emphasized keyword Adams in the message display region of the IMPUI component and can select the keyword Adams for example by mouse clicking on the keyword Adams or providing other selection input to the IMPUI component e.g. pressing the TAB button until the keyword Adams is further or differently highlighted e.g. highlighted to a different color to indicate it is selected and pressing the ENTER key moving fingertip s on a trackpad to move a cursor e.g. cursor arrow icon hand icon etc. on or over the keyword Adams and pressing the trackpad button to select the keyword Adams . In response to the selection of the keyword Adams the IMPC and or IMPUI component can facilitate storing e.g. automatically storing the email message in the appropriate file folder e.g. ADAMS file folder in the data store . As a result in contrast to conventional message processing systems the user can activate the IMPUI component and with as little as one mouse click on a keyword by the user the email message can be stored in the desired file folder in the data store without requiring the user to search for and locate the desired file folder in the directory and then dragging the email message or selecting a save command to store the email message in the desired file folder. When using the IMPUI component and IMPC for intelligent message processing the structure of the archive e.g. data store can effectively be invisible to the user as a desired portion e.g. one or more file folders associated with a particular keyword or tag name of the archive can be brought to e.g. presented or displayed to the user instead of the user having to search for and locate the desired file folder in the archive and move the message to the desired file folder in the archive. The subject specification can thereby save time and manual effort of the user in managing email messages.

In still another aspect if a potential keyword or keyphrase does not exactly match but is substantially similar to a file folder name or associated tag word or phrase e.g. tag word is Adams but word in message is spelled Addams the IMPC can highlight or emphasize such word or phrase in the message differently than the highlight or emphasis used when the word or phrase is an exact match. Such different highlighting or emphasis e.g. use of different color or different type of emphasis of a potential keyword or keyphrase which does not exactly match but is substantially similar to a file folder name or associated tag word or phrase can indicate to the user that the potential keyword or keyphrase may be a desired keyword or keyphrase that is associated with a desired file folder but the level of confidence that the keyword or keyphrase is associated with a desired filed folder is lower than the confidence level associated with a keyword or keyphrase that exactly matches a file folder name or associated tag.

In yet another aspect as an alternative to or in addition to the IMPC automatically identifying a keyword s or keyphrase s in the email message the user using the IMPUI component can manually select one or more words or phrases in the email message as a keyword s or keyphrase s to facilitate identifying the desired file folder in which to store the email message or performing another desired action as more fully disclosed herein with regard to the email message . The IMPUI component can store the message is a file folder associated with a manually selected keyword or keyphrase or can present one or more potential file folders associated with the manually selected keyword or keyphrase wherein a file folder of the potential file folders can be selected by the user and the message can be stored in the selected file folder.

If for a particular keyword or keyphrase there is more than one file folder that is associated with the particular keyword or keyphrase e.g. when the tag is the name of a client and there are multiple file folders associated with that client the IMPC can identify and the IMPUI component can display the subset of file folders which are associated with the particular keyword or keyphrase in the display region of the IMPUI component . The user can select the desired file folder from the subset of file folders and the IMPC and or IMPUI component can facilitate storing the message or other associated information in the selected file folder.

In still another aspect as an alternative to or in addition to selecting a keyword or keyphrase to facilitate intelligent message processing of a message in accordance with a desired message processing control e.g. ARCHIVE control PLAY ON TV control etc. the user can select a keyword or keyphrase in the message via an interface s of the IMPUI component and can drag the keyword or keyphrase over the desired message processing control in the display screen using the interface s of the IMPUI component to facilitate selecting the desired message processing control and in response the IMPC and or IMPUI component can select and activate the desired message processing control and can perform the desired intelligent message processing in accordance with the selected keyword or keyphrase and the selected message processing control e.g. when the keyword Adams is selected and dragged over the ARCHIVE control to select the ARCHIVE control e.g. wherein the drag can be ended by hovering Adams over the ARCHIVE control and releasing the interface control or button to stop dragging of Adams the message can be stored in the file folder associated with Adams or a subset of file folders associated with the keyword Adams can be presented to the user so the user can select the desired file folder from the subset in which to store the message .

In another aspect if the email message has an attachment such as J Adams.pdf and user desires to save the attachment but not the message itself the IMPUI component can enable the user to efficiently save the attachment in the desired file folder. The user can select the ARCHIVE control to activate the intelligent message processing select the attachment e.g. J Adams.pdf which can be highlighted or emphasized as desired e.g. highlighted using a desired color e.g. green when selected and can select the identified keyword or keyphrase e.g. Adams associated with the file folder in which storage of the attachment is desired. In response to those user selections the IMPC and or IMPUI component can store the attachment e.g. J Adams.pdf in the file folder associated with the keyword or keyphrase e.g. Adams . Thus after activation of the IMPUI component to begin the intelligent message processing the attachment can be quickly stored in the desired file folder in the data store in as little as two interface manipulations e.g. two mouse clicks .

As another example the IMPUI component can include a HAVE ASSISTANT HANDLE control that can be employed to forward the email message and or the attachment J Adams.pdf and or the link http www.examplenews.com example Adams story to another desired destination such as the email box of the assistant of the user. In an aspect the user can select e.g. press the HAVE ASSISTANT HANDLE control and the email message can be forwarded to the desired email box such as the assistant s email box as specified by the parameter settings of the HAVE ASSISTANT HANDLE control . As desired a preconfigured message or header e.g. pre populated message or header or a custom message or header can be included in the forwarded message. As desired e.g. when specified in accordance with the parameter settings a copy of the email message and or forwarded message can be created and stored in desired file folder as part of the message processing in response to selection of the HAVE ASSISTANT HANDLE control . For instance similar to the ARCHIVE control the HAVE ASSISTANT HANDLE control can result in the IMPC identifying and highlighting the keyword Adams and the user can select the keyword Adams to facilitate copying and storing the email message and or forwarded email message in the desired file folder associated with the keyword Adams in addition to creating and sending the forwarded email message. Alternatively the user can select the ARCHIVE control and the HAVE ASSISTANT HANDLE control and selecting the keyword Adams to facilitate archiving the message in the desired file folder and forwarding the email message to the assistant s email box.

As still another example the IMPUI component can comprise a PLAY ON TV control that can be employed to send a copy of an attachment of a video file such as the attachment Adams PressConference.mov in the email message to the data store and or a remote storage e.g. digital video recorder DVR set top box STB and to play the video file on the TV. For instance the user using the IMPUI component can select the PLAY ON TV control to activate message processing by the IMPUI component and can select the attachment Adams PressConference.mov and the IMPC and or IMPUI component can facilitate sending Adams PressConference.mov or a copy of such file to the desired storage location s and playing Adams PressConference.mov on a TV associated with the IMPC or storage location in which Adams PressConference.mov is stored. Alternatively when the PLAY ON TV control is selected by the user if the IMPC detects only one video or audio attachment in the email message the IMPC can automatically send the video or audio file to the desired storage location e.g. data store DVR STB and play the video or audio file on the TV e.g. the IMPC can automatically send the video or audio attachment to the desired location and or play the video or audio file on the TV or video or audio player in as little as one mouse click or one interface manipulation after the PLAY ON TV control has been activated in accordance with parameter settings associated with the PLAY ON TV control .

As yet another example the IMPUI component can include an ACCESS STORE LINKED PAGE control that can be employed to access an online page or site that is linked to by a link in the email message . In an aspect the user using the IMPUI component can select the ACCESS STORE LINKED PAGE control to activate the intelligent message processing by the IMPUI component and can select or highlight a link such as http www.examplenews.com ExampleAdamsStory in the email message . In response the IMPC can automatically access the online page or site associated with the link and can store a copy of the online page or site in the data store e.g. in the file folder associated with Adams . In another aspect to facilitate storing the online page or site in the desired file folder in the data store when the ACCESS STORE LINKED PAGE control is selected the IMPUI component can prompt the user to select the link e.g. and select a keyword e.g. identified keyword such as Adams or keyphrase to identify the desired file folder and the IMPC and or IMPUI component can facilitate accessing and storing the online page or site associated with the link in the desired file folder e.g. file folder associated with the selected keyword in the data store . Alternatively the user can select the ARCHIVE control and the ACCESS STORE LINKED PAGE control during the same session wherein the ARCHIVE control can be employed to facilitate identifying the desired file folder as disclosed herein and the ACESS STORE LINKED PAGE control can be employed to access and store the linked page or site in the desired file folder as disclosed herein.

It is to be appreciated and understood that the controls e.g. ARCHIVE control HAVE ASSISTANT HANDLE control PLAY ON TV control ACESS STORE LINKED PAGE control disclosed herein are but a few examples of the controls that can be employed by the system and in accordance with various embodiments and aspects other controls that can facilitate intelligent message processing of messages can be employed by the system and all such other such controls are considered to be within the scope of the subject specification.

In accordance with yet another aspect the IMPUI component can enable a user to create one or more custom controls e.g. custom programmable controls or options to facilitate intelligent message processing of messages e.g. email message . The IMPUI component can provide e.g. display to the user one or more menus comprising options and or controls that the user can select to create a custom control that can perform a desired function s to facilitate processing messages. The IMPC can receive input relating to the custom control and can save information e.g. parameter setting s option s function s selection s etc. relating to the custom control for example in the data store and as desired the custom control can be displayed with other controls e.g. ARCHIVE control on a display region of the IMPUI component or can be included in a menu that can be provided to the user. The parameter settings options functions and or controls can relate to for example an application to be used when a particular custom control is selected a destination e.g. data store remote storage location etc. for the message being processed a message processing action to take in response to selecting the particular custom control etc.

In an aspect the controls e.g. message processing controls displayed in the display region of the IMPUI component can be manually selected by the user can be a default subset of controls presented by the IMPUI component or can be dynamically and or automatically selected by the IMPC or IMPUI component when a message is displayed in the display region based at least in part on information contained in or associated with the message and or current or historical information of user activity with regard to utilization of controls in relation to messages. As one example in a user selected subset of controls or a default subset of controls displayed in the display region of the IMPUI component there may be no ACCESS STORE LINKED PAGE control in order to display other desired controls in the display region. However when a message e.g. email message is displayed in the display region of the IMPUI component and that message includes a link to an online page or site e.g. http www.examplenews.com ExampleAdamsStory the IMPUI component and or IMPC can identify e.g. automatically identify the link associated with the message and in response to identifying the link the IMPC and or IMPUI component can facilitate dynamically or automatically presenting the ACCESS STORE LINKED PAGE control in addition to or instead of one or more other controls in the display region of the IMPUI component e.g. portion of the display region that displays controls . Alternatively the user can be presented with a MORE CONTROLS control or button not shown in the display region of the IMPUI component that can allow the user to view more available controls or create a custom control as desired.

As another example when a message e.g. email message is displayed in the display region of the IMPUI component and that message includes an attachment that is a video file such as Adams PressConference.mov and a link to an online page such as http www.examplenews.com ExampleAdamsStory in a user selected subset of controls or a default subset of controls displayed in the display region of the IMPUI component there may be no PLAY ON TV control or ACCESS STORE LINKED PAGE control in order to display other desired controls in the display region e.g. due in part to size limitations of the portion of the display region that presents the controls . The IMPC can analyze the message to identify that there is a video file and link associated with the message and can analyze current and historical information associated with the user in relation to messages. If based at least in part on the analysis the IMPC determines that the current and historical information indicates the user views video files that are included in messages on a relatively frequent basis but on a relatively less frequent basis the user desires to save linked to online pages associated with links in messages the IMPC can dynamically determine that the PLAY ON TV control is to be provided e.g. displayed in the display region of the IMPUI component but the ACCESS STORE LINKED PAGE control is not be to provided in the display region of the IMPUI component or if one of the normally displayed controls is used even less frequently than the ACCESS STORE LINKED PAGE control or is not relevant to the message the ACCESS STORE LINKED PAGE control can be dynamically displayed instead of such normally displayed control.

In still another aspect when a particular control such as ARCHIVE control is selected to facilitate identifying a desired file folder in which to store the email message and no file folder is detected by the IMPC the IMPUI component can display a notification and or prompt to the user to notify the user that no file folder has been detected that relates to any of the potential keywords or keyphrases and can ask the user whether the user desires to create a new file folder or search for a file folder in the directory in the data store . If the user selects the option to create a new folder a new file folder can be created the user can name the new file folder can select a keyword or keyphrase in the email message to name the new file folder and or can associate the keyword or keyphrase with the new file folder e.g. tag the new file folder with the keyword or keyphrase and the IMPC can associate the keyword or keyphrase with the new file folder and or can store the email message and or associated information e.g. attachment linked page etc. in the new file folder which can be stored in the data store . If the user selects an option to not create a new folder the IMPUI component can prompt the user to name a desired file folder or search for and locate the desired file folder in the data store .

In an aspect the IMPUI component and IMPC can be employed to intelligently process and store desired information such as contact information contained in or associated with a message e.g. email message . For instance the IMPUI component can comprise a CONTACT INFORMATION control also referred to as CONTACT INFO control that can facilitate storage of contact information such as a person s name company name address phone number facsimile number and or email address etc. contained in or associated with a message such as email message in a contact information file which can be created to store the contact information. For example the email message can include contact information comprising the name of the message sender e.g. John Hancock associated company or firm name of the message sender e.g. Hancock and Jefferson physical address of the message sender e.g. 123 Main Street New York N.Y. 10001 phone number of the message sender e.g. 212 555 5555 and email address of the message sender e.g. hancock hancockandjefferson.com . In response to the user selecting the CONTACT INFO control the IMPC can parse the message and can identify the contact information in the message based at least in part on the format of the contact information e.g. phone number has a known format email address has a known format name and address typically is in one of several types of known formats etc. the location of the contact information in the message e.g. the email address is known to typically be in the FROM field of the message the name address and phone number typically appear at or near the bottom or at or near the top of the message or other predefined parsing criteria. The IMPUI component can highlight or emphasize the contact information in the display region of the IMPUI component . The user use the IMPUI component to select the various pieces of contact information e.g. name company name address phone number email address etc. as desired wherein for example the IMPUI component can display a prompt such as CREATE NEW CONTACT FILE e.g. when finished selecting desired contact information in the display region to create a new contact file comprising the selected contact information and the user can select the CREATE NEW CONTACT FILE after the user is finished selecting the desired contact information . When the user selects the CREATE NEW CONTACT FILE the IMPUI component and or IMPC can create a new contact file and store the selected contact information in corresponding fields in the new contact file wherein the new contact file can be stored in the data store e.g. in a contact folder comprising respective contact files in the data store .

In still another aspect the IMPUI component can employ voice recognition to facilitate intelligent processing of messages using message processing controls such as those controls disclosed herein. For example the user can speak the phrase ACTIVATE MESSAGE PROCESSOR to activate the IMPUI component and or IMPC to perform intelligent message processing speak the word ARCHIVE to select the ARCHIVE control wherein the IMPC can parse the email message and highlight the keyword Adams in response to the ARCHIVE control being selected via voice recognition by the IMPUI component and speak the keyword Adams into the IMPUI component to select the file folder associated with the keyword Adams e.g. tag name Adams .

In yet another aspect the IMPUI component can allow the user to use hybrid instructions to have the IMPUI component and IMPC intelligently process messages wherein for instance the user can input a voice command for one portion of the message processing and a mouse click keyboard selection or screen touch for another portion of the message processing with regard to a particular message such as email message . For example the user can speak the word ARCHIVE into the IMPUI component to activate the IMPUI component and IMPC to perform an archive function as disclosed herein wherein the IMPC can parse the message and highlight the keyword Adams and the user can click on the keyword Adams to have the IMPUI component and or IMPC store a copy or move the message in the desired file folder associated with the keyword Adams .

In an aspect the system can comprise one or more message servers such as message server that can receive messages e.g. emails text messages multimedia messages etc. from message senders and provide the messages to a user via the UI and or IMPUI component associated with the one or more message servers e.g. . The one or more message servers such as message server also can be associated with the data store wherein received messages can be stored in the data store as desired.

In another aspect the one or more message servers e.g. can be associated with e.g. connected to a communication network that can facilitate wired and wireless communication between communication devices e.g. communication device and the communication device associated with the IMPUI component and IMPC associated with the communication network . In accordance with various aspects and embodiments the communication network can comprise a core network e.g. mobile core network not shown that can be employed to facilitate communication by communication devices associated e.g. wirelessly connected with the core network and other communication devices associated with the communication network . The core network can be associated with APs e.g. macro or cellular AP femto AP pico AP not shown to facilitate wireless communication of voice and data associated with communication devices such as communication device associated with the communication network . The core network can facilitate routing voice and data communications between communication devices e.g. computer mobile phone e.g. cellular phone smart phone personal digital assistant PDA electronic notepad electronic netbook electronic gaming device another type of electronic device with communication capabilities servers e.g. email server multimedia server audio server video server news server financial or stock information server etc. via the core network or via an IP based network e.g. Internet intranet etc. not shown associated with e.g. included in or connected to the communication network . The core network also can allocate resources to the communication devices e.g. in the communication network convert or enforce protocols establish and enforce Quality of Service QoS for the communication devices provide applications or services in the network translate signals and or perform other desired functions to facilitate system interoperability and communication in the wireless communication network. The core network further can include desired components such as routers nodes e.g. SGSN GGSN etc. switches interfaces controllers etc. that can facilitate communication of data between communication devices associated with the communication network . The communication network can include an IP based network not shown that can be associated with the core network and can facilitate communications by communication devices associated with the communication network at least in part via communication of data packets e.g. IP based data packets between communication devices e.g. that are associated with the communication network using a wired or wireless communication connection in accordance with specified IP protocols.

Referring to depicted is a block diagram of an example IMPC that can facilitate intelligent message processing in accordance with various aspects and embodiments of the disclosed subject matter. In accordance with an aspect the IMPC can comprise a communicator component that can facilitate communication e.g. transmission reception of information between components within the IMPC or communication between the IMPC and other components associated with the IMPC .

In another aspect the IMPC can include a control component that can perform one of more control functions in response to selection of the one or more control functions. For example the control component can perform a respectively desired control function in response to a respectively selected control such as an ARCHIVE control a HAVE ASSISTANT HANDLE control a PLAY ON TV control an ACCESS STORE LINKED PAGE etc. or a custom control.

In an aspect the IMPC can comprise an analyzer component that can analyze information such as information associated with a message being processed by the IMPC to facilitate processing a message or performing a desired action wherein the information can comprise for example the sender of a message recipient of a message subject header of a message information included in the body of a message metadata associated with a message information associated with a data store e.g. file folder names content stored in file folders etc. tag information e.g. tag name or word etc.

In still another aspect the IMPC can contain a parser component that can parse information associated with a message to facilitate identifying one or more keywords or keyphrases in a message a link to an online site or page an attachment a type of attachment contact information etc. to facilitate desirably processing a message. For instance the parser component can operate in conjunction with the analyzer component to facilitate parsing and processing a message. In an aspect to facilitate identifying a keyword or keyphrase the parser component and or analyzer component e.g. comprising a comparator component not shown can evaluate or compare words or phrases in a message with known tag words or phrases e.g. stored tag words or phrases associated with respective file folders to facilitate identifying a word or phrase in a message as a potential keyword or keyphrase associated with a particular file folder wherein a word or phrase in a message that matches or at least substantially matches a known tag word or phrase can be or at least potentially can be a keyword or keyphrase associated with a desired file folder.

In yet another aspect the IMPC can comprise a highlighter component that can be used to highlight or emphasize information such as a keyword or keyphrase in a message. For instance the highlighter component can highlight a word s or phrase s associated with a message e.g. differentiate the color of the display region associated with a word or phrase or differentiate the color of the characters of the word or phrases in relation to other words or phrases associated with the message etc. or otherwise emphasize a word s or phrase s associated with a message e.g. emphasize by differentiating size or emphasize by bolding a word or phrase in relation to other words or phrases associated with a message etc. to facilitate indicating a keyword s or keyphrase s to the user via a display region of the IMPUI component wherein the highlighting or emphasizing can be performed for example as more fully disclosed herein.

In accordance with an aspect the IMPC can include a selector component that can select a control a parameter setting a function an option etc. in response to received input information e.g. from a user via a UI component e.g. IMPUI component . In another aspect the IMPC can contain an identification component that can identify one or more keywords or keyphrases in a message or can identify one or more file folders applications or destinations that are associated with a keyword s keyphrase s or tag word or phrase. For instance the identification component can operate in conjunction with the analyzer component and or parser component to facilitate identifying one or more keywords or keyphrases in a message based at least in part on known file folder names or file folder content known tag words or tag phrases associated with a desired file folder s or known or inferred words or phrases that can or may be associated with a desired file folder s . As another example the identification component also can facilitate identifying one or more file folders in which storage of a message or associated information can or may be desired identifying an application to open or access in response to a selected control or information identified in association with a message or identifying a desired destination for information associated with a message for example based at least in part on parsing of the message selection of a control s information stored in the data store tag information etc.

In still another aspect the IMPC can include a tag component that can enable a user to tag a word or phrase e.g. via selection or highlighting of a word or phrase or create a tag word or phrase in response to received input from the user e.g. user can manually select a tag word or phrase or user can accept an automatically identified or generated tag word or phrase presented to the user wherein the IMPC can associate a desired tag word or phrase with a desired file folder. The tag component can facilitate storing tag related information in a data store e.g. data store .

In yet another aspect the IMPC can contain a router component that can route information e.g. message contact information attached file information associated with a link etc. to a desired destination e.g. desired file folder remote storage location e.g. STB associated with a TV desired contact file etc. to facilitate desired message processing e.g. in response to a selection of one or more controls associated with the IMPUI component .

In an aspect the IMPC can comprise a folder creator component that can create a file folder when desired such as for example when a message is associated with a new matter that does not already have a file folder. A newly created file folder can be stored in a desired location in a data store for example. In an aspect the folder creator component or another component associated therewith e.g. another component of the IMPC can identify or infer a desired location of the newly created file folder to facilitate eliminating or at least reducing the amount of time and number of actions taken to store the newly created file folder in the desired location in the data store or other desired destination wherein the message or associated information can be stored within the newly created file folder. For example if a new file folder is being created for an established client e.g. Adams for a new matter for that client the folder creator component or other component s of the IMPC e.g. analyzer component parser component identification component etc. can identify a sub directory e.g. Client Adams in the data store comprising one or more file folders associated with that client and can automatically present the sub directory to the user via the IMPUI component and the user can select the identified sub directory if that is the sub directory desired by the user which can allow the user to select the identified sub directory without having to search for and locate the desired sub directory or can allow the user to search for and select another desired sub directory in which to store the new file folder.

In still another aspect the IMPC can include a custom control generator component CCGC that can facilitate enabling a user to create a desired custom message processing control to facilitate desired message processing of messages. The CCGC can receive desired control settings from a user wherein the desired control settings can be used to facilitate enabling the custom message processing control to perform the desired functions to desirably process a message. For instance the control settings can relate to an application s to be opened or used when the custom message processing control is selected or activated control parameter setting values for control parameters relating to the custom message processing control destination of the message or portion thereof e.g. destination such as storage in a file folder storage in a remote storage location associated with a TV email address to which the message or message portion is to be forwarded etc. etc.

In an aspect the IMPC can include a control presentation management component CPMC that can manage e.g. dynamically control presentation or display of one or more controls based at least in part on available display space for presenting controls user preferences current or historical information relating to user activity with regard to respective controls messages and information e.g. attached files to a message s links associated with a message s etc. associated with messages etc. In another aspect the CPMC also can dynamically control the location size and or emphasis of message processing controls on the display screen. For example if the CPMC determines or infers that a certain subset of message processing controls is more likely to be used to process the message as compared to another subset of message processing controls the CPMC can dynamically display the certain subset of message processing controls such that the message processing controls in the certain subset are displayed on the display screen in a more convenient region of the display screen e.g. alternatively or in addition to displaying the ACESS STORE LINKED PAGE control in a region of the display screen dedicated to displaying message processing controls the ACCESS STORE LINKED PAGE control can be displayed near the link and or can appear on the display when the cursor hovers over the link or when the user selects e.g. clicks on the link the message processing controls in the certain subset can be displayed with a larger size than other message processing controls and or the message processing controls in the certain subset can be displayed with more emphasis e.g. highlighted with a different color than other message processing controls.

In another aspect the IMPC can comprise a user preferences component that can enable a user to provide and set desired user preferences e.g. via one or more menus of available user preferences relating to message processing or default user preferences to facilitate enabling the user to select e.g. using the communication device associated with the IMPC desired user preferences in relation to the message processing. The user preferences component can facilitate storing the respective set of user preferences of a respective user in a respective user file of the user wherein the user file can be stored for example in the data store . The user preferences can relate for example to the number or type of message processing controls to display with a message the sizes of respective display regions of a display screen and or the type of highlighting or emphasis to be used for keywords keyphrases links etc.

The IMPC also can comprise a processor component that can operate in conjunction with the other components e.g. communicator component control component parser component highlighter component etc. to facilitate performing the various functions of the IMPC . The processor component can employ one or more processors microprocessors or controllers that can process data such as information relating to messages e.g. information relating to processing of messages such as disclosed herein information relating to other operations of the IMPC and or other information etc. to facilitate operation of the IMPC as more fully disclosed herein and control data flow between the IMPC and other components e.g. IMPUI component data store communication devices etc. associated with the IMPC .

The IMPC also can include a data store that can store data structures e.g. user data metadata code structure s e.g. modules objects hashes classes procedures or instructions information relating to messages e.g. information relating to processing of messages such as disclosed herein information relating to other operations of the IMPC etc. to facilitate controlling operations associated with the IMPC . In an aspect the processor component can be functionally coupled e.g. through a memory bus to the data store in order to store and retrieve information desired to operate and or confer functionality at least in part to the components of the IMPC e.g. communicator component control component parser component highlighter component etc. and or substantially any other operational aspects of the IMPC .

In another aspect the IMPUI component can include an input component that can comprise one or more UIs e.g. keyboard mouse trackpad touch screen microphone etc. that can receive input from a user to facilitate performing desired actions such as processing of messages. For instance the user can enter desired information using the one or more UIs to facilitate selecting message processing controls keywords file folders or commands etc. In still another aspect the IMPUI component can contain a voice recognizer component that can operate in conjunction with the input component to receive voice input such as voice commands and the voice recognizer component can convert the received voice input into corresponding commands such as message processing commands relating to corresponding message processing controls e.g. ARCHIVE control selection of keywords or file folders and or other desired actions relating to processing information e.g. processing messages .

In an aspect the IMPUI component also can include a presentation component that can provide one or more output interfaces e.g. display screens display regions on a display screen speakers etc. that can present e.g. display information to the user. For instance the presentation component can display one or more messages to the user one or more message processing controls one or more menus a keyboard e.g. on a touch screen display etc.

In yet another aspect the IMPUI component can include a menu component that can generate and or display one or more menus that respectively contain one or more selectable options available to the user to facilitate processing messages selecting user preferences creating custom message processing controls and or other aspects or functions relating to message processing. In still another aspect the IMPUI component can comprise a selector component that can facilitate selection of a desired option preference button control or function etc. in response to received input from the user e.g. input received via the input component .

In an aspect the IMPUI component can contain a highlighter component that can be used to facilitate highlighting or emphasizing information e.g. used to display highlighted or emphasized information used to highlight or emphasize a piece of information in response to received input indicating that highlighting or emphasis of the piece of information is desired e.g. by the user by the IMPC such as a keyword or keyphrase in a message. For instance the highlighter component can highlight a word s or phrase s associated with a message e.g. differentiate the color of the display region associated with a word or phrase or differentiate the color of the characters of the word or phrases in relation to other words or phrases associated with the message etc. or otherwise emphasize a word s or phrase s associated with a message e.g. emphasize by differentiating size or emphasize by bolding a word or phrase in relation to other words or phrases associated with a message etc. to facilitate indicating a keyword s or keyphrase s to the user via a display region of the IMPUI component wherein the highlighting or emphasizing can be performed for example as more fully disclosed herein.

In an aspect the IMPUI component can comprise a message processing control component MPCC that can be employed to facilitate display of one or more message processing controls via a display screen of the presentation component wherein the message processing controls can be selected by a user as desired to facilitate intelligently processing messages. In accordance with various aspects the message processing controls or a portion thereof can be displayed in a dedicated region of a display screen in one or more menus and or displayed in an area of the display screen proximate to a message item with which a particular message processing control can or may be desired e.g. alternatively or in addition to displaying the ARCHIVE control in a region of the display screen dedicated to displaying message processing controls the ARCHIVE control can be displayed near a highlighted keyword and or can appear on the display when the cursor e.g. cursor arrow icon hand icon etc. hovers over the keyword or when the user selects e.g. clicks on the keyword .

The IMPUI component also can comprise a processor component that can work in conjunction with the other components e.g. communicator component input component voice recognizer component presentation component etc. to facilitate performing the various functions of the IMPUI component . The processor component can employ one or more processors microprocessors or controllers that can process data such as information relating to message processing managing communications between various components associated with the IMPUI component information relating to other operations of the IMPUI component and or other information etc. to facilitate operation of the IMPUI component as more fully disclosed herein and control data flow between the IMPUI component and other components e.g. IMPC servers data store etc. associated with the IMPUI component .

The IMPUI component also can include a data store that can store data structures e.g. user data metadata code structure s e.g. modules objects hashes classes procedures or instructions information relating to processing of messages managing communications between various components associated with the IMPUI component information relating to other operations of the IMPUI component etc. to facilitate controlling operations associated with the IMPUI component . In an aspect the processor component can be functionally coupled e.g. through a memory bus to the data store in order to store and retrieve information desired to operate and or confer functionality at least in part to the components of the IMPUI component e.g. communicator component input component voice recognizer component presentation component etc. and or substantially any other operational aspects of the IMPUI component .

In another aspect the communication device can include a multimode operation chipset s that can allow the communication device to operate in multiple communication modes in accordance with disparate technical specification for wireless technologies. In an aspect multimode operation chipset s can utilize communication platform in accordance with a specific mode of operation e.g. voice GPS etc. . In another aspect multimode operation chipset s can be scheduled to operate concurrently e.g. when Q 1 in various modes or within a multitask paradigm.

In still another aspect the communication device can contain a UI component that can include a IMPUI component which can comprise one or more interfaces e.g. display screens touch screens buttons controls switches adapters connectors speakers etc. that can be utilized to perform and or can facilitate intelligent message processing as more fully disclosed herein. In yet another aspect the communication device can comprise an IMPC that can be associated with the UI component and IMPUI component wherein the IMPC can perform and or can facilitate intelligent message processing as more fully disclosed herein.

In an aspect the communication device also can include a processor s that can be configured to confer functionality at least in part to substantially any electronic component within the communication device in accordance with aspects of the disclosed subject matter. For example the processor s can facilitate enabling the communication device to process data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing modulation demodulation such as implementing direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times etc. As another example the processor s can facilitate enabling the communication device to process data relating to messaging e.g. intelligent processing of messages voice calls or other applications or services.

The communication device also can contain a data store that can store data structures e.g. user data metadata code structure s e.g. modules objects classes procedures or instructions message hashes neighbor cell list one or more lists e.g. whitelist etc. information relating to configuring the communication device e.g. IMPUI component IMPC to intelligently process messages as more fully disclosed herein voice calls messaging or other applications or services associated with the communication device network or device information like policies and specifications attachment protocols code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot e.g. reference signal s transmission frequency offsets cell IDs encoding algorithms compression algorithms decoding algorithms decompression algorithms and so on. In an aspect the processor s can be functionally coupled e.g. through a memory bus to the data store in order to store and retrieve information e.g. neighbor cell list information relating to messaging e.g. intelligent message processing voice calls or other applications or services frequency offsets desired algorithms security code communication device identifier etc. desired to operate and or confer functionality at least in part to communication platform multimode operation chipset s UI component IMPUI component IMPC and or substantially any other operational aspects of the communication device .

In accordance with an embodiment of the disclosed subject matter a design platform not shown for example comprising an application programming interface s API not shown can be employed to enable application developers to develop additional customized message processing controls. For instance an API can be utilized to create one or more desired custom message processing controls that can be employed to facilitate message processing e.g. intelligent message processing of messages wherein custom message processing controls created using an API can be made available to communication device users via a desired format such as a saved or downloadable file CD ROM DVD ROM memory stick e.g. flash memory stick floppy disk etc.

In accordance with another embodiment of the disclosed subject matter one or more components e.g. communication device IMPC IMPUI component etc. in the communication network environment can utilize artificial intelligence AI techniques or methods to infer e.g. reason and draw a conclusion based at least in part on a set of metrics arguments or known outcomes in controlled scenarios an automated response to perform in response to an inference s a keyword s or keyphrase s in a message that can or may be associated with a desired file folder a file folder s that can or may be desired for storage of a message an application to be utilized or opened in relation to a file attached to a message a desired destination e.g. remote storage location for a message or associated information e.g. attached video file a subset of message processing controls to display to a user in a UI e.g. display screen of the IMPUI component etc. Artificial intelligence techniques typically can apply advanced mathematical algorithms e.g. decision trees neural networks regression analysis principal component analysis PCA for feature and pattern extraction cluster analysis genetic algorithm and reinforced learning to historic and or current data associated with the systems and methods disclosed herein to facilitate rendering an inference s related to the systems and methods disclosed herein.

In particular the one or more components in the communication network environment can employ one of numerous methodologies for learning from data and then drawing inferences from the models so constructed e.g. Hidden Markov Models HMMs and related prototypical dependency models. General probabilistic graphical models such as Dempster Shafer networks and Bayesian networks like those created by structure search using a Bayesian model score or approximation can also be utilized. In addition linear classifiers such as support vector machines SVMs non linear classifiers like methods referred to as neural network methodologies fuzzy logic methodologies can also be employed. Moreover game theoretic models e.g. game trees game matrices pure and mixed strategies utility algorithms Nash equilibria evolutionary game theory etc. and other approaches that perform data fusion etc. can be exploited in accordance with implementing various automated aspects described herein. The foregoing techniques or methods can be applied to analysis of the historic and or current data associated with systems and methods disclosed herein to facilitate making inferences or determinations related to systems and methods disclosed herein.

In accordance with various aspects and embodiments the subject specification can be utilized in wireless wired and converged e.g. wireless and wired communication networks. For example the disclosed subject matter can be employed in wireless networks with such networks including for example 2G type networks 3G type networks 4G type networks LTE Universal Mobile Telecommunications Systems UMTS Code Division Multiple Access CDMA type systems Wideband CDMA WCDMA type systems etc.

The aforementioned systems and or devices have been described with respect to interaction between several components. It should be appreciated that such systems and components can include those components or sub components specified therein some of the specified components or sub components and or additional components. Sub components could also be implemented as components communicatively coupled to other components rather than included within parent components. Further yet one or more components and or sub components may be combined into a single component providing aggregate functionality. The components may also interact with one or more other components not specifically described herein for the sake of brevity but known by those of skill in the art.

In view of the example systems and or devices described herein example methodologies that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter can be better appreciated with reference to flowcharts in . For purposes of simplicity of explanation example methodologies disclosed herein are presented and described as a series of acts however it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of acts as some acts may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example a method disclosed herein could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover interaction diagram s may represent methodologies in accordance with the disclosed subject matter when disparate entities enact disparate portions of the methodologies. Furthermore not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a method in accordance with the subject specification. It should be further appreciated that the methodologies disclosed throughout the subject specification are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such methodologies to computers for execution by a processor or for storage in a memory.

At at least a portion of the message can be stored in the file folder in response to received input selecting the identified keyword or keyphrase. The IMPC or IMPUI component can store at least a portion of the message e.g. the message an attachment associated with the message in the file folder associated with the identified keyword or keyphrase for example when the IMPUI component receives input from the user selecting the identified keyword or keyphrase in or associated with the message.

At the message can be parsed. In an aspect the message can be parsed to identify a potential keyword s or keyphrase s an attachment s a link to an online page or site etc. For instance the IMPC can scan analyze and or parse the message to detect or identify items of interest such as keywords attachments links etc. wherein the type or level of parsing performed can be based at least in part on the message processing control being applied to the message e.g. employing a message processing control that desires identification of an attached file but does not require identification of a keyword can result in the message being parsed to identify any attached files but not parsed to identify keywords employing a message processing control that desires identification of a keyword that is or may be associated with a file folder in the data store but does not require identification of attachments can result in the message being parsed to identify any instances of a keyword s but not parsed to identify attachments .

At one or more keywords or keyphrases in or associated with the message can be identified. In an aspect the IMPC can parse the information in or otherwise associated with the message to identify a keyword s or keyphrase s that is or may be associated with a file folder stored in the data store e.g. a word or phrase that is tagged to associate it with a particular file folder . For instance the IMPC can compare words phrases or other information in or associated with the message to known tag words respectively associated with a file folder or group of file folders stored in the data store e.g. a subset of file folders associated with the same client or same subject matter to determine or identify whether any words phrases or other information match any of the known tag words wherein a word s or phrase s that matches a tag word s can or may be identified as a keyword s or keyphrase s in accordance with the predefined parsing criteria and wherein the words phrases or other information can comprise of for example alphanumeric characters.

At one or more keywords or keyphrases can be highlighted or emphasized. In an aspect the one or more identified keywords or keyphrases can be highlighted or emphasized as compared to other words phrases or other information in the message so that the keyword s or keyphrase s can be readily distinguished from the other words phrases or information in the message. At selection of a keyword s or keyphrase s can be received. For example the user can use desired interface controls buttons etc. of the IMPUI component to select a desired keyword s or keyphrase s in the message.

At one or more file folders associated with the selected keyword s or keyphrase s can be identified based at least in part on the selected keyword s or keyphrase s . In an aspect the IMPC can identify one or more file folders associated with the selected keyword s or keyphrase s . The one or more file folders can be presented e.g. displayed via the display screen of the IMPUI component to the user. As desired if there is only one file folder that is associated with the selected keyword or keyphrase it is not necessary to present the file folder via the display screen to the user and the message and or associated information can be stored in the file folder for example as described with regard to act .

At the message can be stored in the desired file folder of the one or more file folders associated with the selected keyword s or keyphrase s . In an aspect if only one file folder is associated with the selected keyword or keyphrase e.g. if only one file folder is associated with a tag word that matches or is associated with the selected keyword or keyphrase the IMPC can store the message and or associated information e.g. attachment link etc. in that file folder in the data store without the user having to search and locate that file folder in the directory. If there is more than one file folder that is associated with the selected keyword or keyphrase the file folders can be presented via the display screen to the user and the user can enter input via the IMPUI component to select the desired file folder from the presented file folders. In response to the selection of a desired file folder the IMPC can store the message and or associated information in the desired e.g. selected file folder.

At an ARCHIVE control can be selected in response to the received input. In an aspect input can be received via an interface s of the IMPUI component to facilitate selecting the ARCHIVE control and the IMPUI component can be activated to perform intelligent message processing in accordance with the selected ARCHIVE control. At the message can be parsed. In an aspect when the ARCHIVE control activates the IMPUI component the IMPC can parse the message to identify a potential keyword s or keyphrase s an attachment s e.g. attached file s or other potentially desired information etc. as more fully disclosed herein. At one or more keywords or keyphrases can be highlighted or emphasized. For example the IMPUI component can present the message to the user with one or more keywords or keyphrases highlighted or emphasized as more fully disclosed herein.

At one or more attachments associated with the message can be identified. In an aspect one or more attachments e.g. file s attached to the message can be detected and identified in the message. As desired the identified attachment s can be highlighted or emphasized wherein the highlighting or emphasis of an attachment can be the same or different than that employed for keywords or keyphrases. Alternatively the one or more attachments do not have to be highlighted or emphasized but can be selected by the user to facilitate desired processing of the one or more attachments.

At input relating to selection of an identified attachment s can be received. In an aspect the IMPUI component can receive input from the user via an interface s to facilitate selection of one or more identified attachments associated with the message. At input relating to selection of a keyword s or keyphrase s in the message can be received. For example the user can use the IMPUI component to provide input to select a keyword s or keyphrase s in the message that is or may be associated with a desired file folder wherein such input can be received by the IMPUI component or associated IMPC.

At the selected attachment s can be stored in the desired file folder associated with the selected keyword s or keyphrase s . For example if the message processing control e.g. ARCHIVE control is being utilized as an attachment archive function one or more file folders which are associated with the selected keyword or keyphrase in the data store can be identified in response to the selection of the keyword or keyphrase wherein the one or more file folders can be associated with e.g. mapped to a tag word or phrase that matches or is related to e.g. is mapped to the selected keyword or keyphrase and the selected attachment s can be stored in the desired file folder e.g. stored in the file folder associated with the keyword or keyphrase stored in a user selected file folder of the subset of file folders associated with the keyword or keyphrase .

At the ACCESS STORE LINKED PAGE control can be selected in response to the received input. In an aspect input can be received via an interface s of the IMPUI component to facilitate selecting the ACCESS STORE LINKED PAGE control and the IMPUI component can be activated to perform intelligent message processing in accordance with the selected ACCESS STORE LINKED PAGE control. At the message can be parsed. In an aspect the message can be parsed to identify a potential keyword s or keyphrase s and a link s to an online page s or site s etc. as more fully disclosed herein.

At one or more keywords or keyphrases can be highlighted or emphasized. For instance the IMPUI component can present the message to the user with one or more keywords or keyphrases highlighted or emphasized as more fully disclosed herein. At one or more links can be identified in or associated with the message. In an aspect one or more links e.g. link to an online page or site can be detected and identified in or associated with the message. As desired the identified message item s e.g. link s can be highlighted or emphasized wherein the highlighting or emphasis of a message item s can be the same or different than that employed for keywords or keyphrases. Alternatively the one or more links do not have to be highlighted or emphasized but can be selected by the user to facilitate desired processing of the one or more links.

At input relating to selection of an identified link s can be received. In an aspect the IMPUI component can receive input from the user via an interface s to facilitate selection of one or more identified links associated with the message. At input relating to selection of an identified keyword s or keyphrase s can be received. For example the user can use the IMPUI component to provide input to select a keyword s or keyphrase s in the message that is or may be associated with a desired file folder wherein such input can be received by the IMPUI component or associated IMPC.

At the selected link s can be stored in the desired file folder associated with the selected keyword s or keyphrase s . For example if the message processing control e.g. ACCESS STORE LINKED PAGE control is being utilized as a linked page archive function one or more file folders which are associated with the selected keyword or keyphrase in the data store can be identified in response to the selection of the keyword or keyphrase wherein the one or more file folders can be associated with e.g. mapped to a tag word or phrase that matches or is related to e.g. is mapped to the selected keyword or keyphrase and the selected online page s or site s and or the corresponding link s can be stored in the desired file folder e.g. stored in the file folder associated with the keyword or keyphrase stored in a user selected file folder of the subset of file folders associated with the keyword or keyphrase .

At the PLAY ON TV control can be selected in response to the received input. In an aspect input can be received via an interface s of the IMPUI component to facilitate selecting the PLAY ON TV control and the IMPUI component can be activated to perform intelligent message processing in accordance with the selected PLAY ON TV control. At input relating to selection of a video or audio file which is associated with or attached to the message can be received. In an aspect the IMPUI component can receive input from the user via an interface s to facilitate selection of the video or audio file. At the video or audio file can be presented e.g. played on the TV associated with the communication device e.g. communication device comprising the IMPUI component . In accordance with various aspects the video or audio file can be transferred e.g. transmitted to a remote storage location e.g. DVR STB associated with the TV and the TV can access the file stored in the remote storage location to play it on the TV or the communication device can play the video or audio file and have it presented on the TV.

At an ARCHIVE control can be selected in response to the received input. In an aspect input can be received via an interface s of the IMPUI component to facilitate selecting the ARCHIVE control and the IMPUI component can be activated to perform intelligent message processing in accordance with the selected ARCHIVE control. At the message can be parsed. In an aspect when the ARCHIVE control activates the IMPUI component the IMPC can parse the message to identify or at least attempt to identify a potential keyword s or keyphrase s an attachment s e.g. attached file s or other potentially desired information etc. as more fully disclosed herein.

At a determination can be made regarding whether there is a desired word or phrase in or associated with the message that is or may be associated with a desired file folder stored in the data store. For instance the parsing of the message can or may result in no keyword or keyphrase being identified in relation to a file folder or the parsing of the message can result in a keyword or keyphrase being identified in relation to a file folder but the user does not desire to store the message in the file folder associated with the identified keyword.

If it is determined that there is a desired word or phrase in or associated with the message that is or may be associated with a desired file folder at the message can be processed e.g. intelligently processed using the desired word or phrase e.g. identified keyword or keyphrase in accordance with the ARCHIVE control. For instance the word or phrase can be identified as a keyword or keyphrase and can be associated with the file folder e.g. temporarily associated with the file folder during the processing of the message . In an aspect the keyword or keyphrase can be highlighted or emphasized in the message as more fully disclosed herein. The user can use the IMPUI component to select the desired keyword or keyphrase and the message can be stored in the desired file folder associated with the selected keyword or keyphrase.

Referring back to act if at it is determined that there is no desired word or phrase in or associated with the message that is or may be associated with a file folder e.g. no word or phrase identified identified word or phrase is not desired by the user at a determination can be made regarding whether a new file folder is to be created. For example a prompt can be provided e.g. displayed to the user inquiring whether the user desires to create a new folder. If no new file folder is desired at processing of the message can be stopped or suspended.

If at it is determined that a new file folder is to be created at a new file folder can be created. For instance the user can use the IMPUI component to select a create new file folder option and in response the IMPUI component and or IMPC can create a new file folder.

At a tag word or phrase can be associated with the new file folder. In an aspect the IMPC and or IMPUI component can recommend a file folder name and or a tag word or phrase to associate with the new file folder. For instance the IMPC can parse the message to identify a potential file folder name and or potential tag word or phrase for the new file folder. The user can select the file folder name and or potential tag word or phrase by providing corresponding input to make such selections using the IMPUI component. Additionally or alternatively the user can specify a file folder name and or a desired tag word or phrase a tag word or phrase that can be associated with the file folder by providing corresponding input to the IMPUI component. A mapping can be created between the new file folder and the tag word or phrase wherein the mapping can be employed to facilitate identifying and or locating the new file folder in the data store for example when a subsequent message is parsed and a word or phrase in the subsequent message matches the tag word or phrase. The mapping also can include or be associated with other information such as directory or storage information e.g. information identifying the storage drive file folder that is higher up in the file folder hierarchy than the new file folder e.g. file folder in which the new file folder is stored storage location information e.g. storage address where the new file folder is stored etc. to facilitate enabling the IMPC to locate and retrieve the new file folder when desired.

At the message or a desired portion thereof e.g. attached file can be stored in the new file folder. The new file folder can be stored in a data store. At the tag word or phrase and a mapping of the association of the tag word or phrase with the new file folder can be stored in a data store e.g. same data store as the new file folder or another desired data store .

At information relating to one or more control settings can be received. In an aspect the user can enter and or select desired control settings to facilitate enabling the custom message processing control to perform the desired functions to desirably process a message. For instance the control settings can relate to an application s to be opened or used when the custom message processing control is selected or activated control parameter setting values for control parameters relating to the custom message processing control destination of the message or portion thereof e.g. destination such as storage in a file folder storage in a remote storage location associated with a TV email address to which the message or message portion is to be forwarded etc. etc.

At the one or more control settings can be associated with the new custom message processing control. For instance the one or more control settings can be associated with the new custom message processing control so that when the new custom message control is selected or activated the new custom message processing control can operate in accordance with the one or more control settings to process the message. At information relating to the new custom message processing control can be saved and stored. Information e.g. control name control settings code for providing the control or implementing the control etc. can be saved and stored in a data store. At the new custom message processing control can be provided to the user. In an aspect the new custom message processing control can be displayed on the display screen of the IMPUI component or contained in a menu associated with the IMPUI component.

At a message can be presented e.g. displayed for example in a desired interface e.g. display screen of the IMPUI component . At the message can be parsed. In an aspect the message can be parsed to facilitate identifying one or more message processing controls to dynamically display on the display screen of the IMPUI component. The IMPC can parse the message to identify a potential keyword s or keyphrase s an attachment s a link to an online page or site or other information that can provide an indication of one or more message processing controls that can be desired by the user to desirably process the message.

At current or historical user activity can be analyzed. In an aspect the IMPC can analyze and evaluate user activity associated with the user and or the communication device such as for example user activity relating to message processing to facilitate dynamically identifying and displaying one or more message processing controls that can be desired by the user to process the message. For example the IMPC can analyze user activity relating to how the user interacted or processed other messages received from the same message sender as the current message being processed or to the same desired message recipient as the current message when the user is the message sender how the user interacted or processed other messages that contained a same type of attachment as the current message being processed how the user interacted or processed other messages that contained a link when the current message being processed includes a link how the user interacted or processed other messages that contain the same potential keyword or keyphrase as the current message etc.

At one or more message processing controls which are to be presented can be dynamically identified based at least in part on information associated with the message the analysis of the current or historical user activity and or the amount of display screen space available to display message processing controls. For example if the message includes an attached video file but no link to an online page and user activity analysis indicates that the user frequently e.g. at least a predefined percentage of time views video files attached to messages the IMPC can assign a higher score or weight relating to dynamically displaying the PLAY ON TV control than a score or weight for an ACCESS STORE LINKED PAGE control particularly since there is no link in the message. The IMPC and or IMPUI component can dynamically select the PLAY ON TV control for display on the display screen over e.g. instead of the ACCESS STORE LINKED PAGE control based at least in part on their respective assigned scores or weightings relating to dynamic display of message processing controls provided that there are not a number of other message processing controls that have higher scores or weights than the PLAY ON TV control such that there is insufficient room in the display region dedicated for display of message processing controls to include the PLAY ON TV control in the subset of dynamically displayed message processing controls .

At the one or more message processing controls can be dynamically presented e.g. dynamically displayed on the display screen. A desired subset of message processing controls can be dynamically identified selected and or presented in the display region of the display screen of the IMPUI component that is dedicated for display of message processing controls.

In accordance with various other aspects and embodiments the user can use the IMPUI component to adjust the amount of display screen space available to display message processing controls to increase the amount of display screen space in order to display more message processing controls or decrease the amount of display screen space in order to display less message processing controls as desired and or adjust the size of the buttons which can be represented by displayed icons associated with respective message processing controls to decrease the size of the buttons in order to display more message processing controls on the available display screen space or increase the size of the buttons in order to display less message processing controls on the available display screen space.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter as well as the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter may be implemented. While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a computer and or computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the subject innovation also may be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods may be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices e.g. personal digital assistant PDA phone watch microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. However some if not all aspects of the claimed innovation can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

With reference to a suitable environment for implementing various aspects of the disclosed subject matter includes a computer . The computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including the memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus or external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Card Bus Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA Firewire IEEE 1394 and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

The system memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . The basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up is stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM Rambus direct RAM RDRAM direct Rambus dynamic RAM DRDRAM and Rambus dynamic RAM RDRAM .

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. illustrates for example a disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 100 drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition disk storage can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage devices to the system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

It is to be appreciated that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and the basic computer resources described in the suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of the computer system . System applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be appreciated that the claimed subject matter can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user enters commands or information into the computer through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to the processing unit through the system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s . Thus for example a USB port may be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which require special adapters. The output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide a means of connection between the output device and the system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer . For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected via communication connection . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet Token Ring and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refers to the hardware software employed to connect the network interface to the bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software necessary for connection to the network interface includes for exemplary purposes only internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

The system includes a communication framework that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s . The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

It is to be appreciated and understood that components e.g. communication device communication network IMPUI component IMPC etc. as described with regard to a particular system or method can include the same or similar functionality as respective components e.g. respectively named components or similarly named components as described with regard to other systems or methodologies disclosed herein.

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor also can be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as data store data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. For example information relevant to operation of various components described in the disclosed subject matter and that can be stored in a memory can comprise but is not limited to comprising subscriber information cell configuration e.g. devices served by an AP or service policies and specifications privacy policies and so forth. It will be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM phase change memory PCM flash memory or nonvolatile RAM e.g. ferroelectric RAM FeRAM . Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

Various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media.

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media and or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows. Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. card stick key drive . . . or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the disclosed subject matter. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the claimed subject matter but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

