---

title: Cooled turbine rim seal
abstract: A rim seal assembly includes an annular seal element circumscribing an engine centerline or axis and mounted on an annular platform including a radially inwardly extending annular platform flange disposed between and connected to forward and aft flanges at distal ends of forward and aft annular elements respectively. Annular forward and aft outer rim cavities radially disposed between the forward and aft annular elements and the platform are axially separated by the platform flange. Cooling slots extend radially across axially facing forward and aft surfaces of the forward and aft flanges. The platform flange and the forward and aft flanges are bolted together. The annular seal element may include seal teeth in sealing relationship with an annular seal land such as in a labyrinth seal. The rim seal assembly may be incorporated in a low pressure turbine use a compressor as a source of cooling air.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08382432&OS=08382432&RS=08382432
owner: General Electric Company
number: 08382432
owner_city: Schenectady
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100308
---
This invention was made with government support under government contract No. F33657 00 D 0048 awarded by the Department of Defense. The government has certain rights to this invention.

The invention relates to aircraft gas turbine engine rim seals and particularly for labyrinth seals having rotating elements supported by flanges of adjacent disks sealing against stationary elements.

A gas turbine engine of the turbofan type generally includes a fan a core engine and a low pressure power turbine. The core engine includes a compressor a combustor and a high pressure turbine in a serial flow relationship. The compressor and high pressure turbine of the core engine are interconnected by a high pressure shaft. The compressor turbine and shaft essentially form the high pressure rotor. The compressor is rotatably driven to compress air entering the core engine to a relatively high pressure. This high pressure air is then mixed with fuel in the combustor and ignited to form a high energy gas stream. The gas stream flows aft and passes through the high pressure turbine rotatably driving it and the high pressure shaft which in turn rotatably drives the compressor.

The gas stream leaving the high pressure turbine is expanded through a second or low pressure turbine. The low pressure turbine rotatably drives the fan via a low pressure shaft all of which form the low pressure rotor. The low pressure shaft extends through the high pressure rotor.

Some gas turbine engines have low pressure turbines in which the stages include disks that are bolted together by arm flanges at distal ends of arms extending from the disks. Disposed between the arm flanges is a seal flange supporting an annular platform with labyrinth seal teeth extending radially outwardly therefrom. The seal teeth cooperate with a static seal land mounted at a radially inner end of turbine vane assembly forming a labyrinth seal. Labyrinth seals are used to control and prevent leakage flow from a primary hot flowpath through the turbine. However some leakage does occur and migrates through the labyrinth seal downstream to lower pressure regions. In the turbine section this leakage air is made extremely hot by hot gases from the products of combustion as the primary airflow expands through the turbine towards the exit of the engine. This high temperature air in radially outer rim cavities between the annular platform and the arms is extremely undesirable having adverse effect on rotating metal disks and other parts of the gas turbine engine. It is highly desirable to provide relatively cooler airflow into the rim cavities surrounding the upper disk regions and labyrinth seal teeth.

A rim seal assembly includes an annular seal element circumscribing an engine centerline or axis and mounted on an annular platform an annular platform flange extending radially inwardly from the platform and disposed between and connected to forward and aft flanges at distal ends of forward and aft annular elements respectively. Annular forward and aft outer rim cavities radially disposed between the forward and aft annular elements and the platform are axially separated by the platform flange. Cooling slots extend radially across axially facing forward and aft surfaces of the forward and aft flanges.

In an exemplary embodiment of the rim seal assembly the platform flange and the forward and aft flanges are be bolted together. The annular seal element may include seal teeth in sealing relationship with an annular seal land.

The forward and aft annular elements may be in a high pressure rotor or a low pressure rotor with annular forward and aft outer rim cavities radially disposed between the forward and aft annular elements and the platform and axially separated by the platform flange.

A gas turbine engine turbine disk assembly includes at least one pair of adjacent first and second rotor disks connected by disk forward and aft spacer arms attached to the adjacent first and second rotor disks respectively. At least one rim seal assembly includes an annular seal element circumscribing an engine centerline or axis and mounted on an annular platform with an annular platform flange extending radially inwardly from the platform. The platform flange is disposed between and connected to forward and aft flanges at distal ends of the forward and aft spacer arms respectively. Annular forward and aft outer rim cavities radially are disposed between the forward and aft spacer arms and the platform and are axially separated by the platform flange. Cooling slots extending radially across axially facing forward and aft surfaces of the forward and aft flanges.

A more particular embodiment of the gas turbine engine turbine disk assembly includes a plurality of rotor disks and each of the rotor disks includes a web extending radially outwardly from a hub to a disk rim. The plurality of rotor disks includes at least one pair of adjacent first and second rotor disks are connected by disk forward and aft spacer arms attached to the adjacent first and second rotor disks respectively. Turbine blades extend radially outwardly from the disk rim of the adjacent first and second rotor disks a row of vanes extend radially inwardly from a case and are disposed axially between the turbine blades of the adjacent first and second rotor disks. An annular seal land is mounted to a radially inner end of the row of vanes. At least one rim seal assembly includes an annular seal element circumscribes an engine centerline or axis and is mounted on an annular platform. The annular seal element is in sealing relationship with the annular seal land. An annular platform flange extends radially inwardly from the platform the platform flange is disposed between and connected to forward and aft flanges at distal ends of the forward and aft spacer arms respectively. Annular forward and aft outer rim cavities are radially disposed between the forward and aft spacer arms and the platform and are axially separated by the platform flange. Cooling slots extend radially across axially facing forward and aft surfaces of the forward and aft flanges. A bore disposed radially inwardly of the hub and the forward and aft spacer arms is in flow communication with a source of cooling air and the turbine blades and the row of vanes extend radially across a low pressure turbine primary flowpath. The source of cooling air may be a compressor.

A gas turbine engine includes in downstream serial flow relationship a fan a compressor a combustor a high pressure turbine and a low pressure turbine. Each of a plurality of rotor disks in the low pressure turbine includes a web extending radially outwardly from a hub to a disk rim. The plurality of rotor disks includes at least one pair of adjacent first and second rotor disks that are connected by disk forward and aft spacer arms attached to the adjacent first and second rotor disks respectively. Turbine blades extend radially outwardly from the disk rim of the adjacent first and second rotor disks and a row of vanes extend radially inwardly from a case and disposed axially between the turbine blades of the adjacent first and second rotor disks. An annular seal land is mounted to a radially inner end of the row of vanes. At least one rim seal assembly includes an annular seal element circumscribing an engine centerline or axis and is mounted on an annular platform. The annular seal element is in sealing relationship with the annular seal land. An annular platform flange extends radially inwardly from the platform and is disposed between and connected to forward and aft flanges at distal ends of the forward and aft spacer arms respectively. Annular forward and aft outer rim cavities are radially disposed between the forward and aft spacer arms and the platform and are axially separated by the platform flange. Cooling slots extend radially across axially facing forward and aft surfaces of the forward and aft flanges.

Illustrated in is an exemplary turbofan gas turbine engine circumscribed about an engine centerline or axis and having in downstream serial flow relationship a fan which receives ambient air a compressor a combustor which mixes fuel with the air pressurized by the compressor for generating combustion gases which flow downstream through a high pressure turbine HPT and a low pressure turbine LPT from which the combustion gases are discharged from the engine . A first or high pressure shaft joins the HPT to the compressor to substantially form a first or high pressure rotor . A second or low pressure shaft joins the LPT to the fan to substantially form a second or a low pressure rotor . The compressor combustor and high pressure turbine HPT collectively are referred to as a core engine which includes for the purposes of this patent the high pressure shaft . The second or low pressure shaft which is at least in part rotatably disposed co axially with and radially inwardly of the first or high pressure rotor.

Referring further to the low pressure turbine LPT includes a plurality of rotor disks and each rotor disk has a hub and a web extending radially outwardly from the hub to a disk rim which defines a perimeter of the rotor disk . Each rotor disk supports a row of turbine blades each turbine blade including a dovetail shaped root portion supported in a slot in the disk rim . The turbine blades extend radially outwardly from the disk rim . Stationary rows of vanes extend radially inwardly from case illustrated in in between the rows of rotatable turbine blades . Adjacent first and second disks of the rotor disks are connected by disk forward and aft spacer arms attached to the first and second disks respectively.

Further referring to the arms are integrally formed as one piece with or rigidly connected to the disk rim or web of the first and second disks and transmit bending moments between the adjacent disks. A bore is disposed radially inwardly of the hubs and the forward and aft spacer arms . The bore is in flow communication with a source of cooling air such as the compressor .

In the exemplary embodiment of the adjacent first and second rotor disks illustrated herein the forward and aft spacer arms are integrally formed as one piece with the adjacent disks and bolted together with bolted connections to form a low pressure turbine disk assembly of the low pressure turbine LPT as more particularly illustrated in . The forward and aft spacer arms extend axially forwardly and aftwardly respectively away from the disk rims . Annular forward and aft flanges are located at distal ends of the forward and aft spacer arms . Adjacent forward and aft spacer arms are bolted together with the bolted connections having bolts through arm flange apertures in the forward and aft flanges as more particularly illustrated in .

Annular forward and aft outer rim cavities radially disposed between the forward and aft spacer arms and the platform flange are axially separated by the annular platform . The labyrinth seal is used to control and prevent leakage flow from a turbine primary flowpath across which the turbine blades and vanes are radially disposed. However some leakage does occur through the labyrinth seal . This leakage air includes extremely hot gases from the products of combustion. This high temperature air in the forward and aft outer rim cavities is extremely undesirable having adverse effect on the rotor disks and other parts of the turbine and engine. Cooling slots extend radially across axially facing forward and aft surfaces of the forward and aft flanges as further illustrated in . The cooling slots together with the platform flange form radially extending cooling passages therebetween allowing cooling air to flow from the bore of the LPT through the forward and aft outer rim cavities thus purging them of hot turbine air and cooling the cavities and the labyrinth seal teeth .

The labyrinth seal is one example of a rim seal in a rim seal assembly for that may incorporate the cooling slots extending radially across the axially facing forward and aft surfaces of the forward and aft flanges which support a platform flange of the rim seal. Such rim seals may be found in other parts of the gas turbine engine such as the turbines and compressors. The rim seal assembly disclosed herein may generally be described as having an annular seal element mounted on an annular platform wherein the seal element is exemplified by the seal teeth . The forward and aft flanges may be located at distal ends of forward and aft annular elements which are exemplified as the forward and aft spacer arms respectively.

The present invention has been described in an illustrative manner. It is to be understood that the terminology which has been used is intended to be in the nature of words of description rather than of limitation. While there have been described herein what are considered to be preferred and exemplary embodiments of the present invention other modifications of the invention shall be apparent to those skilled in the art from the teachings herein and it is therefore desired to be secured in the appended claims all such modifications as fall within the true spirit and scope of the invention.

