---

title: Cover display
abstract: A cover for an electronic device, such as a dedicated handheld electronic book (“eBook”) reader device, is described. The eBook cover has one or more integral displays, which are used to display various information that may or may not be related to the eBook that is being consumed on the eBook reader device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09495322&OS=09495322&RS=09495322
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 09495322
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100921
---
A large and growing population of users is enjoying entertainment through the consumption of digital media items such as music movies images electronic books and so on. The users employ various electronic devices to consume such media items. Among these electronic devices are electronic book readers cellular telephones personal digital assistant PDA portable media players tablet computers netbooks and the like.

One particular device that is gaining in popularity is the dedicated electronic book eBook reader device which attempts to mimic the experience of reading a conventional book through display of electronic information on one or more electronic displays. As the quantity of available media content continues to grow along with increasing proliferation of such dedicated devices to consume that media content finding ways to enhance user experience continues to be a priority. As eBook reader devices continue to evolve there remains a need for improving a reader s ability to relate comfortably with the eBooks and begin to feel as though he is picking up the book itself rather than a generic electronic device.

This disclosure describes a cover that may be used with an electronic device such as a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a portable media player a tablet computer a netbook a laptop computer an electronic book eBook reader device or any other type of electronic device. In one example the cover comprises a cover for an eBook reader device that includes a reader display upon which eBooks can be rendered. The eBook cover has its own display referred to herein as a cover display upon which other information or graphics can be rendered. In some embodiments the content displayed on the cover display may be unrelated to the eBooks that are consumed on the eBook reader device. For example the cover may be configured to display promotional information user supplied pictures owner information or other content specified by the cover owner or someone who has provided the cover. In other embodiments the cover may communicate with the eBook reader to determine what is currently being consumed on the eBook reader and may display content that is related to the currently consumed content. For example the cover may display cover art that is associated with the eBook currently being consumed on the eBook reader device. In addition or alternatively the eBook cover may display a title page a progress indicator bibliographic information or other data relating to the eBook currently being consumed. In some embodiments the cover may have multiple cover displays to display different types of information.

The eBook reader device is configured to render the text of an eBook on the reader display . In addition to text the reader display may depict illustrations tables or graphic elements that might be contained in eBooks.

The terms book and or eBook as used herein include electronic or digital representations of printed works as well as digital content that may include text multimedia hypertext and or hypermedia. Examples of printed and or digital works include but are not limited to books magazines newspapers periodicals journals reference materials telephone books textbooks anthologies instruction manuals proceedings of meetings forms directories maps web pages and so forth. Accordingly the terms book and or eBook may include any readable or viewable content that is in electronic or digital form.

The eBook reader device has one or more buttons or keys that can be used by a human reader to navigate through the text of an eBook and to perform other user interface functions. The buttons or keys may include page turning buttons a joystick navigational keys a power on off button selection keys joystick touchpad and so on.

The reader display may include touch screen capabilities that allow user input through contact or gesturing relative to the display. For convenience only the reader display is shown in a generally rectangular configuration. However it is understood that the display may be implemented in any shape and may have any ratio of height to width. Also for stylistic or design purposes the reader display may be curved or otherwise non linearly shaped.

While the reader display may be implemented using any suitable display technology in some implementations the reader display is implemented electronic paper ePaper display technology. A characteristic of ePaper display technology is that the display is bi stable meaning that it is capable of holding text or other rendered images even when very little or no power is supplied to the display. Thus the last screen image rendered on the display can be maintained and visible for very long periods of time such as days or weeks. In addition this technology can produce very high contrast ratios similar to that of printed paper.

The eBook cover of can be implemented as a detachable or removable accessory to the eBook reader device . Alternatively the eBook cover may be integrated more closely with the eBook reader device and may form an integral non removable part of the eBook reader device .

The eBook cover in this embodiment comprises a front flap and a rear flap . The front flap has a flat planar shape with a front or outer surface and an opposing rear or inner surface . In the following discussion the outer surface may at times be referred to as the outside front cover surface and the inner surface may at times be referred to as the inside front cover surface.

In the illustrated position the eBook cover is open with the front flap generally parallel or in the same plane as the eBook reader device . In this position the inner front cover surface faces the user and the outer front cover surface faces away from the user.

The front flap is hinged at or near its junction with the eBook reader device in the general area indicated by reference numeral and is therefore moveable to be positioned over the reader display of the eBook reader device. In particular it can be folded or turned upward and to the right to be positioned over and covering the reader display . In the closed position the inner front cover surface faces and lies adjacent the reader display .

The rear flap is positioned behind the eBook reader device . The hinge or spine portion joins the front and rear flaps and .

The eBook reader device may be attached to the front of the rear flap . This attachment may be by one or more attachment elements including straps adhesives hook and loop materials mechanical latches and so forth. In the illustrated embodiment the eBook cover has a coupler or accessory connector that releasably or detachably couples the eBook reader device to the eBook cover . In example of the eBook reader device has receptacles or other elements that cooperate with the coupler to latch the eBook reader device to the eBook cover . In addition to providing physical coupling the coupler may function as a data coupler to provide data communications with the eBook reader device . Further details regarding an embodiment of coupler will be described in more detail below.

The eBook cover has a flat display panel incorporated within its inner front surface . This display panel as well as other examples of displays incorporated within the eBook cover will be referred to herein as a cover display.

The cover display may be implemented using various technologies including the ePaper technology mentioned above. The cover display may also be implemented using monochrome or color technologies with LED light emitting diode LCD liquid crystal display OLED organic light emitting diode or other technologies that are available or may become available. ePaper like displays that may be used with the implementations described herein include bi stable LCDs MEMS cholesteric pigmented electrophoretic and others. In other implementations or for other types of devices the cover display may further include a touch screen interface. In some implementations a touch sensitive mechanism may be included with the display to form a touch screen display.

In the same or different implementations the cover display may be a flexible display and further include a touch sensitive membrane film or other form of sensing material. The flexible display may be positioned for example above a touch sensor s . The touch sensor s may be a resistive touch sensitive film. The flexible display may also include a protective layer made of a flexible material such as plastic. The flexible display may also include a flexible backplane layer. The backplane may also be made of a flexible material such as plastic metal glass or a polymer based material. A flexible backplane may be bendable rollable light weight etc.

The cover display may be of various sizes and shapes. In the illustrated example the cover display occupies most of the inner front cover surface of the front flap . It may be smaller in other embodiments and may be implemented using multiple discrete display panels.

In some embodiments the eBook cover may have integral control logic or electronics to drive and control the cover display . Such control logic may range from very simple to relatively complex depending on functional objectives and the types of content desired to be displayed on the cover display . The cover display may in some embodiments communicatively couple to the eBook reader device and the eBook reader device may control aspects of the cover display . In some embodiments the eBook cover may have control logic that communicates with the eBook reader device to determine information that will be displayed on the cover display . In some embodiments the eBook cover may have one or more communications ports that allow external configuration and control of cover display . Examples of such communications ports will be explained with reference to .

The operating system implements general functionality of the cover including communications display control content selection user interface if needed and so forth. The cover content comprises text graphics or other visual materials that are potentially to be displayed on the cover display . The content can be specified by a user or pre configured by a manufacturer seller operator or owner of the eBook cover .

The eBook cover may be configurable through several different communication ports referred to above as ports . In this example the communications ports include a WAN port a memory port and a configuration port . Any one or more of these ports may be used in any particular embodiment and different types of communication and configuration ports may be used in place of or in addition to those illustrated and discussed herein.

The WAN port may comprise a network communications port such as a WiFi interface or cellular communications interface. The memory port may be of a type that communicates with portable or removable memory cards or memory sticks such as portable flash memory devices or other types of removable or external storage components. For example memory port may comprise a USB universal serial bus port or some variation thereof. Alternatively it may utilize other protocols that are compatible with widely used memory devices such as memory devices used with digital cameras and other media devices. Configuration port may be a USB port or other interface designed to allow access to and configuration of the eBook cover by an external device such as a personal computer or other controller.

The operating system may be configured in various ways to obtain the content using these communications ports. For example the operating system may be configured to respond to the connection of a memory card to memory port by displaying any content stored on the memory card. When a memory card is connected the operating system may scan the memory card for graphics files that can be displayed on the cover display . The operating system may then render those graphics files in a repeatable sequence on the cover display .

In practice a user may store picture files on a memory card and then insert it into the memory port of the eBook cover . The operating system may respond by creating a slide show from the picture files and repeatedly rendering the pictures of the slide show on the cover display in some implementations.

Functionality such as this might be used by advertisers to promote companies products services etc. For example the eBook cover might be distributed as a promotional give away item to promote a particular entity. In order to configure the eBook cover to display promotional content such content might be stored on a memory card that is then installed in the memory port of the eBook cover . In this configuration a user could subsequently replace or reprogram the memory card to configure the eBook cover to display different personalized information or graphics.

Similar functionality might be implemented through the configuration port . For example a user might connect the eBook cover to the user s personal computer and then copy pictures graphics or other displayable content to the eBook cover to be subsequently displayed on the cover display . A user might also or alternatively configure the eBook cover with personal information such as the user s name and address to be displayed on the cover display to identify the user as the owner of the eBook cover and its associated eBook reader device .

When the eBook cover is used as a promotional vehicle a promoter might use the configuration port to designate specialized content and advertising relating to the promoter so that such content and advertising is shown on the cover display . In this situation the eBook cover may or may not be reconfigurable by the user to display different information.

The cover content may alternatively be obtained using the network port . The operating system may utilize the network port to poll a network source such as a server or other computer for content that is to be displayed on the cover display . A push delivery mechanism might alternatively be used wherein a server or other network source notifies the eBook cover when new content is available for display on cover display .

In the example of the eBook reader device and the eBook cover have independent operating logic. Note that only a general configuration of each device is illustrated showing high level components most relevant to this discussion. Both the eBook reader device and the eBook cover may be implemented in many different ways other than the specific implementation shown here.

The eBook cover is largely as described with reference to including the one or more processors the memory the operating system the cover content and the one or more cover displays . In this example however the communication ports of the eBook cover comprise a device port for data communication with the eBook reader device . Physically the device port may be integrated with the coupler shown in . Electronically the device port may use one or more existing wired communication protocols such as a USB universal serial bus . Alternatively the device port might be implemented using one or more wireless technologies.

The eBook reader device has control logic that may comprise one or more processors and associated memory . The memory stores programs or program modules that are executable by the processors to implement the functionality of the eBook reader device including the functionality described herein. The memory may comprise nonvolatile and or volatile memory including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory other memory technology or any other machine readable storage media. The memory may include removable and or non removable memory.

The memory may be used to store any number of functional components that are executable on the processor as well as data and content items that are rendered by the eBook reader device . Thus the memory may store an operating system and an eBook storage database to store one or more eBooks or other content items such as audio books.

The operating system provides menus and other navigational tools to facilitate selection and rendering of the eBooks . The operating system may further include a browser or other application that facilitates access to sites over a network such as websites or online merchants. In addition the operating system contains logic and modules for controlling the reader display for rendering eBooks on the reader display and for navigating through rendered eBooks in response to user input.

The eBook reader device may have various communications ports for configuration and for obtaining eBooks and other content. In this example the eBook reader device has a WAN port which may comprise a wireless network communications port such as a WiFi port or a cellular network communications port. The operating system uses the WAN port to communicate with a server or service provider not shown and to purchase and download eBooks and other materials or content that may be displayed on the reader display .

In addition to downloading eBooks from a server or service provider the eBook reader device may download various supplemental content corresponding to each of eBooks . The supplemental content may comprise bibliographic data metadata cover art additional or related content illustrations user provided materials such as pictures and comments and so forth and may be obtained from various sources such as publishers instructors experts online sources published materials and so forth.

The eBook reader device may also include a wired communications port referred to herein as an external port for connection to and configuration by an external device such as a personal computer. The external port may comprise a USB port or might utilize some other protocol. In some embodiments the eBooks and other content including the supplemental content may be transferred from an external device to the eBook reader device through the external port rather than through the WAN port .

The eBook reader device also has a cover communications port for connection with the device port of the eBook cover . The cover port is configured to use the same communications protocol as the device port of the eBook cover which in some embodiments may be the USB communications protocol and in other embodiments may be a wireless communications protocol. Physically the cover port may be integrated with any mechanisms used to attach the eBook cover to the eBook reader device . Thus the data connection between the eBook cover and the eBook reader device can be established automatically whenever the eBook cover is physically attached to the eBook reader device .

The operating system may include an application programming interface referred to herein as a cover API that can be called by the eBook cover for interaction between the eBook cover and the eBook reader device . Although the cover API may be implemented by the operating system it is shown explicitly in for purposes of discussion. Also note that the cover API may be implemented apart from the operating system in some embodiments.

In the embodiment of the eBook cover periodically queries the eBook reader device using the cover API via the device port and the cover port to obtain the supplemental content . The eBook cover receives the supplemental content and uses it as its cover content displaying it on the one or more cover displays . While the eBook cover may obtain the supplemental content from the eBook reader device in some instances in other instances the cover may obtain the supplemental content from a remote source such as wirelessly over the Web.

In addition to the supplemental content the eBook cover may obtain configuration information or commands from the eBook reader device containing specific instructions or information regarding the desired behavior of the eBook cover .

In different embodiments specific operational behavior of the eBook cover may be dictated by either the eBook cover itself or the eBook reader device . Responsibility for updates may also be placed with either the eBook cover or the eBook reader device . Generally the various functionality described herein can be under the control of either the eBook cover the eBook reader device or some combination of the two devices. Similarly communications may be initiated by either the eBook cover the eBook reader device or both.

Also the display content can be obtained by the eBook cover from the eBook reader device or from an independent device such as an associated computer a network based server or an Internet based service provider independently of the eBook reader device. Generally the cover content and other configuration information can be communicated using the device port of and or through one or more of the communication ports and shown in . Information can be pushed to the eBook cover or the eBook cover may be configured to query various sources including online sources and the eBook reader device to obtain display content .

The eBook reader device may be configured to enable enhanced functionality when the eBook cover is attached to the eBook reader device . For example additional user interface elements may be enabled allowing a user to choose from different cover display configurations and or to specify cover content. Furthermore some embodiments of the eBook reader device may allow a user to install applications on the eBook reader device and may allow those applications to interact with and utilize any available displays on the eBook cover . An application for example might implement a game or puzzle using display capabilities of the eBook cover . An application may also be configured to obtain and display various different types of information. A stock ticker for example could be implemented by a user installed application program using the display of the eBook cover .

Different embodiments of the eBook cover may use one or more displays in various positions including those illustrated herein. For example one embodiment may include displays on the spine on the front cover and on the inner or inside front cover of the eBook cover . Another embodiment may include only a single display located on an edge of the cover on the front of the cover or inside the cover. Furthermore multiple displays might be positioned on the same surface such as the inside front of the eBook cover . Such displays might be used for different purposes to display different information. They may also be implemented using different display technologies. For example one display might be implemented using e ink technology to display eBook cover art while another display might be implemented using LCD technology to display eBook related data only while a user is actively using the eBook reader device .

More generally any display incorporated within the eBook cover may use one of various display technologies depending on design objectives. For displaying cover art and certain types of text based supplemental information ePaper technology might be most appropriate because of its low power requirements and its ability to present images that persist without updating over long periods of time. For user interface functionality active LCD displays might be more appropriate. Furthermore the different types of displays might be touch sensitive in some embodiments allowing the cover device to form a more significant part of a user interface. Color displays may be most appropriate for presenting certain types of information while monochrome displays might be more appropriate for presenting other types of information.

Power may be supplied to active components within the eBook cover from rechargeable batteries incorporated within the front and or rear flaps of the eBook cover . Alternatively power may be drawn from the eBook reader device to which the eBook cover is coupled or from other devices that are used to program and configure the eBook cover .

The various cover displays described above can be used for a number of different purposes. Several examples will be referenced in the following discussion. Although the examples utilize the inside front cover surface of the illustrated eBook cover it should be understood that the same things can also be displayed on other surfaces such as the outside front cover an edge such as a spine or portions of the back cover. Furthermore the information and content described in the examples can be displayed on a number of different cover displays or screens integrated within the eBook cover and the displays can be positioned and sized quite differently than illustrated herein. Also the various types of content and information might be combined in different ways depending on desired usage and design objectives.

At cover content is rendered on one or more of the cover displays of the eBook cover. As indicated to the right of block the cover content may include a number of different things such as progress information supplemental information supplemental content a navigational or other user interface cover art promotional materials statistics regarding the user and others other social data user content user information and so forth. These examples will be discussed in more detail below.

Alternatively eBook cover art may be displayed on the outside front cover surface of the eBook cover giving an effect similar to that of a paper based book. ePaper displays or other low power or persistent displays may be particularly appropriate for this situation so that eBook cover art can be persisted when the eBook reader device is not in use such as between reading episodes. This reminds the user what they are reading and also allows the user to become familiar with the cover art and any information that might be incorporated with the cover art such as the eBook title and author name. A spine display as shown in might be used in combination with a front display to further enhance this effect making the cover art and associated book information visible regardless of how the eBook reader device is positioned. Some embodiments might show small portions of cover art including the title and author on the spine of the eBook cover either alone or in combination with a front cover display.

Cover art may be obtained by the eBook cover from the eBook reader device and updated as appropriate whenever a user switches from reading one book to reading another book. In many embodiments the displayed cover art will be the cover art associated with the eBook that is currently being consumed on the eBook reader device or the eBook that was last being rendered on the eBook reader device .

In some embodiments cover art may be obtained from sources other than the eBook reader device such as from online sources or external devices. In certain embodiments the eBook cover may communicate with the eBook reader device to determine what is currently being consumed and may then obtain cover art from some other source. In some cases the eBook cover may use its own networking capabilities for this purpose. In other cases the eBook cover may utilize the communication capabilities of the eBook reader device to communicate with sources of cover art.

User designated content including text graphics pictures videos and so forth can be displayed on cover displays of the eBook cover . For example a user might transfer multiple pictures to the eBook cover using one of communications ports and configure the eBook cover to display the pictures in sequence to create a slide show on the eBook cover . Other graphics can be presented in the same way including presentation graphics.

Rather than actually supplying content for display on the eBook cover a user might select from different content available from different sources such as online sources. For example there may be online picture libraries of the user or other users that can be designated by the user for display on the eBook cover . At appropriate times the eBook cover might retrieve and display content from the designated library or libraries.

As another example a user might designate personal information for display on the eBook cover . The eBook cover might be configured to display owner information supplied by the user such as name address telephone number and email address. This might be useful if attempting to return a lost eBook reader device to its owner. Information might also be presented in the form of a business card.

In one embodiment a user may specify or designate items for a wishlist and the eBook cover might display the user s wishlist on one of its displays.

Other forms of supplemental information might include information regarding the activities of the user with respect to the currently rendered eBook such as the current progress or location of the reader within the currently rendered eBook. This type of information is indicated in by reference numeral and indicates progress as a percentage of completion while also predicting the time that might be needed to complete the eBook given the current reading speed.

Progress information might alternatively be displayed in the form of a gauge or other graphic image that changes with the progress of the user through the eBook. In one embodiment cover art associated with the currently rendered eBook might be displayed on one of the cover displays and changed over time to indicate progress of the user through the current eBook. For example the shade or transparency of the cover art might be gradually changed. Alternatively a cover art image might be altered to make it look more and more aged as the user progresses through the associated eBook. The aging might be a function of progress through the eBook the amount of time the user has spent with the eBook or the passage of time in general.

Cover displays of the eBook cover might be used to display information unrelated or only loosely to the currently rendered eBook. For example a cover display might be used to display a list of eBook recommendations or a list of eBooks that other users are currently consuming. Depending on the capabilities of the eBook reader device geographic and proximity information may be available regarding other users. Here the other users proximity and the nature of their current eBook activities might be reported to the user of the eBook reader device using one of its cover displays assuming these other users have explicitly opted to share this information in this manner. An example of this type of information is referenced by numeral in .

A cover display can also be used to display a history of the user s previous reading activities as well as statistics regarding the user s activities. A cover display can display a list of eBooks owned by the user or in the user s archive or a list or queue of eBooks that the user intends to read next. In the example of the user s reading speed is displayed at along with the average reading speed of other users.

An eBook cover display might also be used to display information from social networking sites and other information regarding status and activities of other users and online friends. Various tickers and other news and information sources might be displayed on a cover display to present real time information as it becomes available. In the example of an average of ratings given by other users is shown referenced by numeral .

Content that is supplemental to the currently rendered eBook might be displayed on one or more displays of an eBook cover while reading the eBook on the eBook reader device . Such supplemental content might include background information related to the current eBook author interviews discussion comprehension questions graphics pictures videos related works reviews or comments from other readers. Supplemental content might be provided by authors and publishers or might be provided by others such as readers reviewers and editors. In some scenarios there may be extra fees associated with such supplemental content.

The presentation of supplemental content on a cover display might be coordinated with eBook rendering so that navigating to different pages or portions of the eBook causes corresponding supplemental content to be displayed. In other situations the supplemental content while being related to the currently rendered eBook might be independently navigable. In embodiments with touch sensitive screens the information might be scrollable by swiping the cover display. In other embodiments it may be possible to scroll through the supplemental content using other navigational mechanisms such as buttons or other physical controls.

The eBook cover may in some cases be used to convey promotional information. For example an eBook cover may be pre configured to display the name and logo of a particular entity such as a company or university. This might be particularly useful in the scenario where an entity loans eBook reader devices or otherwise makes them available to multiple users. In this scenario the eBook cover might be pre configured to display the corporate identity of the entity providing the eBook reader devices.

In other scenarios an eBook cover might be used as a give away promotional item at an event such as a trade show. Prior to distribution such eBook covers could be programmed or configured to display the name of the distributing entity as well as other advertising or promotional information. In some cases eBook covers might be programmed to display a variety of advertising in sequence from a number of different entities who have paid or otherwise cooperated to be included in this manner.

One or more cover displays might also be used as part of an eBook user interface possibly in conjunction with the controls that are already part of the eBook reader device. The cover displays might be touch sensitive allowing navigation by touching. A browser can be presented on a cover display for example allowing the user to browse an online store or other online sites even while an eBook is being rendered on the eBook reader device .

In some embodiments the user may be able to select the chapters or bookmarks to navigate to the corresponding locations with the rendered eBook .

Although the examples above demonstrate several different display configurations various other configurations are possible. For example a cover display might be positioned on either the inner or outer surface of the rear flap. Additionally the rear flap of the cover may in certain embodiments be configured to extend beyond the right side of the eBook reader device and one or more displays might be positioned on the surface that is visible to the right of the reader device. Furthermore certain covers may have additional folding segments any of which might be utilized for additional cover displays.

Coupler is shown in the context of an eBook reader device and an associated eBook cover having a front cover flap and a rear cover flap . The eBook reader device has a first accessory connector and a second accessory connector . Coupler is configured to engage the first accessory connector and the second accessory connector and to mechanically and or electrically couple the eBook reader device and the eBook cover .

At least a portion of the first hook may be configured to provide an electrical pathway. For example the first hook may comprise a conductive material may be plated with a conductor and so forth. A conductive spring wire contact flexible printed circuit or other electrical connection provides an electrical pathway from the conductive material of the first hook to a conductor . Conductor in turn couples to one or more active devices in the cover . The same or an additional spring or other flexible material may be configured to bias the first hook to a latched position when a user is not applying pressure to the first hook .

A contact is disposed within the first slot and is configured to couple with at least a part of the conductive portion of the first hook . An outline of the contact is shown with a broken line within the area of the first hook . In some implementations the contact may be disposed to touch the top bottom or sides of the first hook . Once coupled an electrical pathway suitable for carrying electrical power data signals and so forth is established between the eBook reader device and the cover . A single conductive pathway may be provided as shown in this illustration. In other implementations additional conductive pathways on the first hook and corresponding additional contacts in the first slot may be provided. In some implementations where the first accessory connector is configured to provide mechanical support only the contact may be omitted from the first accessory connector .

The second hook is configured to provide mechanical coupling electrical coupling or both between the cover and the eBook reader device . To provide for the electrical coupling at least a portion of the first hook may comprise or may be plated with a conductive material. The conductive material provides an electrical pathway from contacts within the second slot to a conductor . This conductor in turn couples with one or more active components within the cover .

One or more electrical contacts . . . D may also reside within the second slot . These contacts may comprise spring contacts wiper contacts and so forth and may used for power and or data communications. While this figure illustrates three contacts and other implementations may employ a fewer or greater number of contacts. This illustration shows outlines of the contacts with broken lines within the area of the second hook . Specific contacts may be configured with a geometry differing from the data contacts D . For example a ground contact might in some embodiments be longer and extend such it engages the second hook before other contacts that are used for power or data.

In other implementations the contacts may be disposed on other surfaces of the slot . For example two contacts may be disposed above the second hook and may be configured to engage conductors disposed on the complementary proximate surface while two contacts reside below the second hook .

Although not shown a plurality of conductors may be disposed upon the second hook such that only specific contacts within the second slot couple to each of the plurality of conductors once the second hook is fully engaged.

The illustrated accessory connectors and comprise very low profiles. For instance the height of the second slot as shown by line Z may be about less than 1 millimeter e.g. 0.81 millimeters in one implementation.

Various means of attachment can also be found in the following United States Patent Applications which are hereby incorporated by reference Application Attachment Mechanism Ser. No. 12 418 387 filed Apr. 3 2009 and Low Profile Mechanical and Electrical Accessory Connector Ser. No. 12 815 904 filed Jun. 15 2010.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

