---

title: Transparent composites and laminates and methods for making
abstract: An exemplary method for making a transparent composite includes steps of combining a refractive index modifier with a precursor solution to provide a modified polymer precursor solution, combining glass with the modified precursor solution, and curing the modified precursor solution to create a transparent glass reinforced polymer composite. An example refractive index modifier comprises a monofunctional compound or monofunctional monomer, a polyfunctional compound or polyfunctional monomer or polymer, which is combined with the polymer precursor solution to increase the crosslinking density of the chain in the cured modified polymer precursor solution, and thus increase the refractive index. An exemplary transparent composite comprises a glass reinforced thermosetting polymer composite layer sandwiched between glass layers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08753464&OS=08753464&RS=08753464
owner: The Curators of the University of Missouri
number: 08753464
owner_city: Columbia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100924
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 943 335 filed Sep. 17 2004 issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 819 997 which is incorporated by reference herein.

This invention was made with Government assistance under National Science Foundation Grant No. NSF 0196428. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

A field of the invention is methods for making transparent composites and laminates. Another field of the invention is transparent composites and laminates.

Although glass is the most common transparent material used in buildings vehicles and the like glass is not acceptable for all such applications. Glass is relatively heavy and brittle and may shatter into a multiplicity of sharp parts when impacted. These properties make glass disadvantageous for many applications including some building and vehicle windows. Additionally glass is difficult to form into complex shapes.

For many applications in which the potential for impact or other strains and or stresses exist there exists a general need for mechanically strong composite materials that are of high optical quality and have an optical transparency similar or equivalent to that of glass. Polymers such as polymethylmethacrylate PMMA sold under the trademark PLEXIGLASS are used in place of glass in certain applications in which both impact resistance and optical transparency are required. Unfortunately thermoplastic polymers such as PMMA still do not have sufficient mechanical strength for many current applications.

One method of increasing the mechanical strength of polymers like PMMA is to reinforce them with strong glass fibers. This technology is practiced in the manufacture of fiberglass reinforced plastics FRP . In most cases however the introduction of glass fibers into an optically transparent polymer limits or destroys the transparency of the polymer. Commercial FRP composites presently produced are either optically opaque or translucent such that an object at distances greater than about a few feet cannot be clearly seen through them and or significant distortions occur.

Among the problems that exist in the aforesaid glass fiber thermoplastic polymer composites is that changes in the temperature of such composites can cause the relative refractive indices of the glass fibers and polymer to change relative to one another such that they become mismatched. While the impact resistance of a thermoplastic polymer may be better than that of glass its strength is lower. The stiffness of the thermoplastic polymer can also be undesirable for some applications. Finally the thermoplastic polymer tends to degrade quickly with increasing temperature. This mismatching results in degraded composite clarity and or transparency. This lack of clarity with temperature change means that glass fiber reinforced transparent composites lose clarity when used in anything except for a narrow range of temperatures. Also even within a limited temperature range the clarity of glass fiber reinforced composites may be noticeably less than that of glass. This is unacceptable for applications such as use for home or building windows.

An exemplary method for making a transparent composite includes steps of combining a refractive index modifier with a polymer precursor solution to provide a modified polymer precursor solution combining glass with the modified polymer precursor solution and curing the precursor solution to create a transparent glass reinforced polymer composite. An exemplary laminate includes a glass reinforced thermosetting polymer composite bound to glass layers. In a nonlimiting example embodiment the refractive index modifier comprises a monofunctional compound or monofunctional monomer a polyfunctional compound or polyfunctional monomer or polymer which is combined with the polymer precursor solution to increase the crosslinking density of the chain in the cured modified polymer precursor solution compared to a chain for the polymer precursor solution when cured and thus increase the refractive index.

Before describing exemplary embodiments of the invention in detail it will be appreciated that the present invention includes reinforced solids transparent laminates transparent composites and methods for making the same. Accordingly it will be understood that in describing methods of the invention for making reinforced solids transparent laminates and composites description is likewise being made of reinforced solids transparent composites and laminates of the invention.

The polymer precursor solution preferably contains a monomer or unsaturated polymer that will be cured into a thermosetting polymer as opposed to material s that will polymerize into a thermoplastic polymer. Thermosetting polymers are preferred since they have a greater strength and stiffness than thermoplastics and do not degrade with increasing temperature as thermoplastics do. The polymer that results from curing is also transparent. Exemplary precursor solutions include esters ethylenes acrylics vinyls epoxies urethanes and mixtures of the same. One exemplary precursor that has proven useful in practice of the invention contains unsaturated polyester CH CHRCO available commercially for instance from Ashland Chemical Co Dublin Ohio.

One example method of refractive index modification includes adding a polymer s that has a higher or lower refractive index than the candidate host polymer to respectively raise or lower its refractive index. The refractive index modifier should also be compatible with the host polymer to prevent phase segregation or other effects that could lead scattering of light in the resultant polymer. Another example refractive index modifier is any chemical s that alters the crystallinity or crosslinking density or the polarizable electrons per unit volume of the host polymer. Chemicals that increase these properties can be used to increase the refractive index of the host polymer and chemicals that decrease these properties can be used to decrease refractive index of host polymer.

Fluorinated polymers are particular examples of chemicals that increase refractive index while chlorinated polymers are particular examples of chemicals that decrease the refractive index. When practicing example methods of the invention using a precursor solution containing an ester monomer or unsaturated polymer exemplary refractive index modifiers include divinylbenzene and or di butyl phthalate.

A nonlimiting example method uses a chemical method to make a reinforced solid such as a glass reinforced thermosetting polymer composite. An example method changes the refractive index of a polymer precursor solution using a refractive index modifier providing a modified polymer precursor solution. Example polymer precursors include but are not limited to polyurethane polyester epoxy resin and unsaturated monomer. An exemplary refractive index modifier according to this method is a monofunctional compound or monofunctional monomer a polyfunctional compound or polyfunctional monomer or polymer with a larger ring or ring like structure as opposed to a straight chain structure . A compatible monomer compound or polymer with a large functional group e.g. many saturated bonds can be used to increase the crosslinking density of the chain in the cured modified polymer precursor solution versus the chain in the cured polymer precursor solution without the refractive index modifier. This increases the refractive index and this increased refractive index can be selected by selection of the refractive index modifier to substantially match e.g. within 2 and more preferably within 1 the refractive index of glass combined with the modified polymer precursor solution. The monomer s unsaturated bonds and the size of the functional groups can be selected in step to affect the result with the size of the end groups potentially having a greater effect than the number of bonds.

In example embodiments the polymer precursor is or includes an unsaturated monomer or polymer. The example refractive index modifier may be for instance a polyfunctional monomer or polymer having a ring structure or ring like structure. Preferred refractive index modifiers have a functional group number of at least 2 or higher. Nonlimiting example polymer precursor solutions for use with this example method include polyester and epoxy. In a nonlimiting example the use of an additional polyfunctional monomer such as but not limited to divinylbenzene or diacrylates also acts as a cross linking agent between polyester chains which creates a 3 dimensional network of crosslinked polymer chains with a higher degree of the ring structure e.g. of the benzene rings .

In a nonlimiting example method before a curing process the refractive index modifier is added to the polymer precursor. A chemical reaction occurs and a three dimensional network of crosslinked polymer chains is initially established. The density of the polymer chains increases. Some modifier remains prior to curing i.e. not all modifier is used up . During the curing process remaining modifier continues reacting with the polymer precursor and continues forming the three dimensional network. This further increases the crosslinking density of the polymer chains.

Depending on the crosslinking density and the structure of the end groups such as the benzene ring structure which in turn depends on the type and amount of crosslinking agent added the refractive index differs. Such structures functional group size degree of unsaturation etc. can be selected for providing a modified polymer precursor solution having a desired refractive index when cured.

In a nonlimiting example method using divinylbenzene and an unsaturated polyester polymer precursor mixture is stirred at room temperature for 10 minutes and vacuum for 20 min. Then 2 divinylbenzene is added into polymer precursor the precursor is stirred for 10 min. and vacuum for 20 min. A 3 dimensional network polymer material is created. A nonlimiting representative reaction with divinylbenzene is shown below.

This example method provides a versatile generally applicable method for modifying a refractive index of a polyester or any other suitable polymer. Polymer precursor solutions including generic polymers e.g. generic polyesters can be provided e.g. prepared purchased etc. and modified by using a monofunction monomer polyfunctional monomer or polymer with a larger ring or ring like structure. This provides an economical and efficient way of providing polymers with desired refractive indexes.

In addition to chemicals it has been discovered that nanoparticles are a suitable refractive index modifier for practice of the invention. Nanoparticles with a diameter that is less than that of visible light do not have a noticeable effect on the transmission of the visible light through the transparent polymer. Visible light has a wavelength of between about 400 700 nm. Accordingly it is preferred that nanoparticles used in methods of the invention as a refractive index modifier have a diameter of less than about 400 nm and more preferably of less than about 200 nm. Nanoparticles may also be desirable since they can be used to introduce other functionalities in addition to increasing mechanical strength such as reflecting short wavelength ultra violet light. Substantially platelet shaped cylindrical shaped and other shaped nanoparticles may be used. Nanoparticles may be made of metal oxides such as titanium oxide and or titanium dioxide ceramics in addition to other suitable materials.

Nanoparticles that have a refractive index greater than the host polymer will increase the refractive index of the polymer and vice versa. By way of example titanium dioxide nanoparticles have a refractive index greater than polyester. They may therefore be used in a method of the invention as a refractive index modifier to increase the refractive index of a polyester that results from the curing of a polyester precursor solution. Nanoparticles used as refractive index modifiers should also be selected to insure that other properties of the polymer are not adversely affected with an example adverse effect being a reaction with the polymer over time.

The step of empirically determining the amount of the refractive index modifier whether it be a chemical solution nanoparticles or another modifier to combine with the precursor solution may include determining a desired refractive index adding a first amount of modifier to the precursor solution curing the solution and determining the refractive index of the polymer that results. This sequence of steps may then be repeated using a lesser or greater relative amount of modifier based on the result of the first iteration. After from a few to several iterations of this sequence a suitable ratio of modifier can be determined that results in the refractive index of the final polymer having a desired value. By way of example it is believed that between about 0.5 to about 3 by weight based on total weight of final solution of titanium dioxide or other titanium nanoparticles may be a useful amount to add to a precursor solution that will cure to a polyester polymer.

The desired value of the refractive index is preferably substantially equal to the refractive index of the glass fibers that will be combined with the precursor solution. This refractive index may be determined by experiment or more preferably is obtained from literature. For example a reported refractive index for E glass fibers is 1.55 and for S glass fibers is 1.52. It is preferred that the polymerized precursor solution have a refractive index that substantially matches the refractive index of the glass fibers. This results in minimal to no noticeable distortion when images are viewed through the final transparent glass reinforced polymer composite. Refractive indexes that are at least within about 1 of one another are preferred although indexes that are within about 2 of one another are believed to perform satisfactorily. Most preferably the refractive index of the polymer substantially equals that of the glass fibers or is at least within about 0.5 . It is believed that refractive indexes that differ from one another by more than about 10 result in an unacceptable level of distortion.

In exemplary methods a required amount of refractive index modifier is combined with the precursor solution so that the solution when cured into a polymer has the desired refractive index block . This may occur for example by combining divinylbenzene diacrylates or polycarbonate resin or titanium oxide dioxide nanoparticles with the precursor solution while the precursor solution is contained in a container such as a mold. Mixing may be provided to achieve suitable distribution.

The exemplary method next includes a step of depositing a glass fiber sheet into the precursor solution in the container block . The glass fiber sheet may include any suitable silica based glass fibers with E glass fibers S glass fibers A glass fibers AF glass fibers C glass fibers being some examples. The fibers should be transparent and have good tensile strength. S glass is an example of a glass fiber that offers relatively high tensile strength. Although E glass fibers have slightly lower mechanical properties they are typically commercially available at a significantly lower cost than S glass fibers.

Substantially continuous fibers may be used as well as shorter fibers. Fibers that are too short may result in a less than desirable mechanical strength. It is believed that fibers having a length of at least about 50 and more preferably at least about 100 times their diameter provide good mechanical strength. In many applications substantially continuous fibers that have a length the same or greater than the size of the transparent composite will prove beneficial. As used herein the term continuous fiber when used in this context is intended to be broadly interpreted as having a length that is close to or greater than the length of the composite being made. For example when practicing a method of the invention to make a transparent composite having a length of about 18 fibers of about 18 may prove useful. The fibers then may be placed so that they run continuously across the length of the composite.

The fibers may be thick enough to provide a desired degree of strength but not so thick that they are overly stiff and relatively brittle. Diameters of between about 10 and about 25 micrometers are believed to be suitable although practice of the invention using other diameters is also contemplated. Nano fibers may be useful. When the precursor solution is contained in a container such as a mold the fiber sheet may be deposited onto the surface of the solution. Preferably substantially all of the fibers become wetted with the precursor solution.

The present invention contemplates use of glass fibers in forms other than sheets of fibers. Loose fibers may be used for example in a variety of diameters lengths orientations and the like. Glass in other forms including a substantially planar and flexible ribbon is also contemplated for use in addition to or as an alternative to glass fibers. For many applications glass fibers will be preferred over ribbon because fiber s three dimensional orientation can be advantageous to contribute mechanical strength in multiple directions.

Glass is preferably provided regardless of whether it is in fiber ribbon or other form in an amount so that the final volume ratio of the glass is between about 15 30 . Referring in particular to fiber it is believed that a 50 maximum fiber volume ratio is a useful upper limit as above this fiber fraction the amount of polymer will be low which may affect bonding with the fibers and cause loss of transparency. Too low of a fiber volume percentage may result in a final composite of limited mechanical strength. It is believed that a minimum fiber volume ratio of about 10 is useful to achieve significant mechanical strength advantages of the fibers although lower content is contemplated and may be useful for some applications.

The amount of fiber fiber length fiber diameter fiber orientation and the fiber entanglement are variables that may be altered to affect the strength and flexibility of the final glass reinforced polymer composite. For example the angle of orientation of fibers may be varied to alter the strength of the final composite in a particular direction. In some methods of the invention entangled fibers are provided in sheets with a generally random and equally distributed orientation. In other methods of the invention fibers may be provided in only the X direction crossed in both the X and Y direction and in other angular variations as may be desirable for a particular application.

Some invention embodiments further include steps of coating the glass fibers with a coupling agent to enhance binding with the polymer that will result when the precursor solution is cured. For example a silane coupling agent may be coated on the glass fibers. Silane coupling agents are known to improve the adhesion between glass fibers and polyester for example. Silane coatings developed for glass fibers typically have an alkoxy moiety attached to the silica group that interacts well with glass to provide a hydrophobic bond and a functionalized endgroup that reacts with the polymer to form a covalent bond. Other suitable coupling and binding agents may be selected based on the polymer used and other considerations.

The modified precursor solution with the glass fibers therein is then cured to result in a transparent glass reinforced polymer composite block . Curing may occur through polymerization by application of heat a chemical initiator and or an accelerator. It may be desirable in some applications to avoid the use of heat and pressure. In such cases polymerization may be accomplished by addition of a chemical initiator and allowing the reaction to occur at room temperature over a period of time that may range from several hours up to a few days. By way of example MEKP methyl ethyl ketone peroxide available commercially from Aldrich Chemical Co. may be added as an initiator when using an unsaturated polyester precursor solution. Those knowledgeable in the art will appreciate that the amount of initiator required may be empirically determined or may be obtained by reference to literature. When practicing the method using un saturated polyester for example about 1.2 by weight MEKP may be useful. Accelerators such as cobalt octoate or cobalt napthanate may also be added if desired to speed the reaction. In an example method the MEKP is added at room temperature without additional pressure or heat.

Polymerization results in the glass fibers being encapsulated and bound to the polymer. A transparent glass reinforced polymer composite results which combines the transparency of glass the flexibility of the polymer and a dramatically enhanced mechanical strength due to the presence of the glass fibers. The glass reinforced polymer composite preferably has sufficient flexibility so that it can withstand relatively high impacts concentrated in small areas without breakage or shattering. These and other properties make composites made through methods of the invention suitable for a wide range of applications with examples including vehicle windshields impact proof or resistant transparent composites hurricane glass airplane and ship glass portable electronics display glass and the like.

In other embodiments of the invention subsequent steps may include making additional glass reinforced polymer composite layers through the steps of or other methods and combining these to form a multi layer composite. The various glass reinforced polymer composite layers may be prepared separately and bound together using a binding agent or other method or may be formed one on top of another. That is a precursor solution may be deposited on the first glass reinforced polymer composite mixed with a refractive index modifier and a fiber sheet deposited therein. This solution can then be cured to create a second glass reinforced polymer composite layer overlying the first.

Different numbers of layers may be combined to suit different applications. Typical final composites may have varying thickness with 1 3 mm being exemplary although other thicknesses are contemplated. By way of particular example a composite made with 7 9 layers of glass fibers may have a thickness of about 3 mm. Other thickness are of course possible within practice of the invention and may be desirable depending on application. It is noted that any difference between polymer and glass fiber refractive indexes will cause increasing light scattering with increasing layers so the benefits of having closely matching refractive indexes are increased with increasing layers.

Methods of the invention may include practicing steps of the invention in a shaped mold so that the resulting transparent glass reinforced polymer composite has a desired shape. Desired shapes and final composites may be by way of example and not limitation substantially flat plates curved arched or otherwise shaped window panes vehicle windows such as curved windshields and the like. The resultant composites may have substantially planar surfaces or may even have undulating surfaces as may be desired for particular applications. Methods of the invention may likewise include steps of cutting the glass reinforced polymer composite to achieve a desired shape polishing the composite and other post formation steps.

Other methods of the invention may include additional steps of binding a glass layer to a glass reinforced polymer composite made through steps of an invention embodiment such as that illustrated in . is a flow chart illustrating exemplary additional steps. It will be understood that the present invention includes the transparent laminate that results from the steps of in addition to other transparent laminates. Referring now to a coupling agent such as a silane is applied to at least one surface of a glass reinforced polymer composite block that may be made for example through the steps of or another method of the invention. A glass layer is then bound to the surface block to create a glass glass reinforced polymer laminate. A coupling agent with a silane being an example may also be applied to the glass layer surface. A glass layer may also be bound to an opposite surface of the glass reinforced polymer composite to create a three layer composite. is a schematic cross section of such a laminate with the glass fiber composite layer sandwiched between the glass layers . Embodiments of the invention include the laminate of and that of as well as other transparent laminates made through methods of the invention.

The glass layers are preferably selected to have a refractive index that closely matches e.g. within about 2 or is preferably substantially equal to the refractive index of the glass fibers in the glass reinforced polymer composite layer . The transparent binding agent applied to the opposite surfaces of the glass reinforced polymer composite layer may be any that is suitable for use with a thermosetting polymer that forms the layer with silane coupling agents being one example. Use of this and other suitable binding agents in combination with use of the thermosetting polymer of the layer allows the layers and to be bound at room temperature and pressure. Methods of the invention thereby realize cost and effort savings in the production of laminates such as those shown in . The thicknesses of the layers and may vary depending on application design considerations with useful ranges believed to be between about 1 and about 3 mm for the glass reinforced polymer composite layer and between about 1 and about 6 mm for the glass layers . The glass layers can be any suitable glass with plate glass heat strengthened glass or tempered glass being examples. The glass layers may be in the form of substantially planar sheets or in other forms.

It will be appreciated that although methods for making a two layer and a three layer laminate have been discussed other methods of the invention will result in laminates with more than three layers. More layers may result in enhanced strength and impact resistance for example. Methods of the invention for example may include additional steps of binding a glass reinforced polymer composite layer onto one of the glass layers of binding an additional glass reinforced polymer layer onto the new composite layer and so on to result in a multi layer composite having desired strength and or other qualities. is a schematic cross section of such a laminate. As illustrated the layers may be of varying thicknesses. Also it will be appreciated that the glass reinforced polymer composite layer may comprise a plurality of individual composites bonded together.

Laminates made through methods of the invention and laminates of the invention with those illustrated in being examples are believed to provide substantial strength in combination with a transparency and appearance that is generally consistent with that of glass. Methods of the invention that result in these and similar laminates are therefore believed to provide important benefits and advantages that will be valuable in applications that include vehicle and building windows in addition to many others.

In order to further describe exemplary embodiments of the invention description of an experimental method and laminate of the invention is provided. A 2.5 mm transparent glass reinforced polymer composite was prepared according to a method consistent with that described in above using a polyester precursor solution. It had a glass fiber volume fraction of about 18 an elastic modulus of about 6.7 Gpa and shear modulus of about 1.15 GPa.

Glass layers were then bonded to opposing surfaces of the glass reinforced polymer composite according to the steps of . The glass layers were between about 3 and about 6 mm thick. A thin layer of polyester resin was applied to each of the two surfaces of the transparent glass reinforced polymer composite which was then sandwiched between the two glass layers under a nominal pressure. The system cured into an integrated laminated panel after 24 hours. The resultant laminate was highly impact resistant and could withstand for example the impact of debris during high speed wind storms such as hurricanes. The resultant laminate also showed clarity comparable to glass.

To estimate its impact resistance the following impact tests were performed on 450 mm 300 mm 9 mm laminated composite glass panels sections of the experimental laminate clamped on all four sides between silicone rubber glazing 

While specific embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims. For example while exemplary methods of the invention have been described herein as including steps in a particular sequence it will be understood that methods of the invention are not be limited to these particular sequences and that other methods of the invention may be practices using the same or similar steps in an alternate sequence. It will also be understood that the present invention includes reinforced solids transparent laminates and composites in addition to methods for making the same and that description of a method made herein is likewise description of an article of the invention that may be made through the method.

