---

title: Method and apparatus for assessment of sleep disorders
abstract: Embodiments provide systems, methods and apparatuses for monitoring the sleep of a subject in a home environment. In embodiments, load cells placed under bed supports may be coupled to a computing device that may process the load cell data to detect disordered breathing. In some embodiments, a computing device may apply a pattern recognition algorithm to load cell data to distinguish between normal movements and movements associated with a sleep disorder. In an embodiment, apparatuses and methods for monitoring sleep may perform functions associated with detection of sleep disturbances and/or identify a sleep disorder.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08905928&OS=08905928&RS=08905928
owner: Oregon Health & Science University
number: 08905928
owner_city: Portland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100716
---
The present application is a nonprovisional of and claims priority to U.S. Patent Application No. 61 226 483 filed Jul. 17 2009 entitled Method and Apparatus for Assessment of Sleep Disorders the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant Contract No. 1R01AG024059 01A1 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

Embodiments herein relate to the field of sleep disorder monitoring and more specifically to methods and apparatuses for monitoring sleep disturbances.

The Institute of Medicine reports that 50 to 70 million Americans suffer from what they refer to as disorders of sleep and wakefulness including more than 30 million who suffer from sleep apnea. The current standard of care for diagnosing and monitoring these disorders is overnight polysomnography PSG a multiparametric test that monitors eye movement respiratory airflow blood oxygen saturation hearth rhythm and other biophysical signs. Unfortunately PSG is expensive obtrusive and inconvenient. Patients who are already struggling with sleep are physically wired to several sensors and asked to sleep normally in a sleep lab. Also these tests are not usually performed frequently enough to detect the night to night variance that many sleep disorders exhibit or to track a patient s progress after treatment has been prescribed. Based on a single night of data from a highly disruptive device a doctor will prescribe treatment. No follow up of the efficacy of the treatment occurs although the patient may return to the sleep lab in 4 6 months for another evaluation.

The high cost and obtrusive nature of PSG the gold standard for studying sleep makes PSG an impractical tool for monitoring individuals sleep over several nights. Other less intrusive methods have been developed to detect other movements during sleep such as respiration. One such method has been to attach a mechanical sensor to a mat that can be placed on top of the bed Aubert et al. 2008 . The technique has high accuracy in detecting heart and respiration rates however the mat alters the sleeping surface of the bed and the device must be placed near the thorax of the patient.

Currently some alternative methods for studying sleep disorders include the detection of Periodic Leg Movements PLM a common symptom of disruptive sleep. One popular alternative method is to use accelerometers to measure the actigraphy of leg movements. However these devices are obtrusive and are limited in both memory and battery capacity. The KickStrip is a PLM monitoring device that may be placed on each leg to detect leg movements but it is also obtrusive and merely counts the gross number of PLM s that occur within a given period of time. In contrast the static charge sensitive bed is unobtrusive but also sensitive to all movement. As a consequence this device cannot localize movement to the subject s legs. Portability of the device is also limited because it requires two large metal plates separated by a wood insulator.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration embodiments that may be practiced. It is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural or logical changes may be made without departing from the scope. Therefore the following detailed description is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of embodiments is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Various operations may be described as multiple discrete operations in turn in a manner that may be helpful in understanding embodiments however the order of description should not be construed to imply that these operations are order dependent.

The description may use perspective based descriptions such as up down back front and top bottom. Such descriptions are merely used to facilitate the discussion and are not intended to restrict the application of disclosed embodiments.

The terms coupled and connected along with their derivatives may be used. It should be understood that these terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. Rather in particular embodiments connected may be used to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. Coupled may mean that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. However coupled may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still cooperate or interact with each other.

For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form NB or in the form A and or B means A B or A and B . For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form at least one of A B and C means A B C A and B A and C B and C or A B and C . For the purposes of the description a phrase in the form A B means B or AB that is A is an optional element.

The description may use the terms embodiment or embodiments which may each refer to one or more of the same or different embodiments. Furthermore the terms comprising including having and the like as used with respect to embodiments are synonymous.

The description may use the terms bed and bed support. The term bed may be used to mean any structure with a generally horizontal surface used intended for use in supporting a body during a period of rest and or sleep including but not limited to beds mattresses futons couches bassinets cribs cots cradles recliners and other similar structures. Bed support may be used to mean any structure that physically supports a bed on a surface such as a floor. A bed support may be an integral part of a bed and or may be a separate component that is added to the bed. A bed may include one two three four five six seven eight or more bed supports.

The term load cell may be used to mean any mechanism that translates converts force into a signal such as an electrical or analog signal. Load cells transducers are known in the art and the description provided herein is intended to embrace all such mechanisms. Load cells in accordance with various embodiments may be coupled to a computing device by a physical connection such as a cable or a wire and or may be in wireless communication with a computing device and or another load cell.

The gold standard for diagnosing sleep problems is overnight polysomnography PSG an obtrusive test in which patients spend a night in a sleep lab wired to up to 15 different devices for measuring airflow movement and electrical brain signals. However the test is expensive inconvenient and time consuming and it interferes with normal sleep patterns. Therefore embodiments herein provide a simpler more cost effective way to triage sleep disorders in the general population. A significantly better understanding of an individual s sleep and changes in their sleep patterns over time may be obtained by monitoring their sleep in a non invasive manner preferably in their own home. Furthermore treatment may be assessed and optimized if data is available on the time course of improvements as a result of the treatment.

Load cells may be used to detect and classify movements in bed and to assess sleep hygiene. In an embodiment load cells placed under each support of a bed offer a unique opportunity to continuously and unobtrusively monitor patients while they sleep. The patterns of changing pressure at each support may be analyzed and inferences about various sleep parameters may be made. Each pressure signal contains information about the amplitude and variability of the person s heart rate and respiration rate as well as about the number timing and intensity of movements. This information may be extracted from the signal using combined time domain and frequency domain techniques including but not restricted to Fourier analysis wavelet analysis and or peak detection. In some embodiments this information may be extracted from individual load cells and combined using averaging or voting techniques. In some embodiments the signals from multiple load cells may be used to determine the center of pressure on the bed and the resultant center of pressure signal may itself be used to extract the information. In some embodiments a single load cell correctly tensioned may provide sufficient data to derive the measures of interest including respiration heart rate and movement. Data from the load cells may be collected in a person s home allowing physicians and researchers the ability to monitor a patient s sleep over time without imposing on the patient or their sleep.

Embodiments described herein provide systems apparatuses and methods for the monitoring of sleep disorders. Embodiments described herein may be adapted for use in home environments. In some embodiments a method of monitoring sleep may comprise collecting data from a load cell the load cell being positioned below a bed support and the data indicating force exerted against the load cell the collecting occurring during a period of sleep or rest on the bed processing the data extracting a first physiological parameter from the data the parameter comprising at least one of respiration body position PLM and heart rate and identifying based on one or more physiological parameters a sleep disorder wherein the collecting extracting and identifying are performed by a computing device comprising executable instructions for applying a pattern recognition algorithm to the data. In some embodiments a sleep disorder may include sleep disordered breathing and or one or more sleep movement disorders. A sleep movement disorder may include PLM restless leg syndrome and or any abnormal sleep movement.

In some embodiments of the above method the processing may comprise at least one of decimating the data filtering the data and segmenting the data into periods of movement and stillness. In an embodiment the extracting may further include extracting one or more additional physiological parameters from the data and the identifying may be based on the one or more physiological parameters. For example one two three four five six or more physiological parameters may be extracted from the data and a sleep disorder may be identified based on one or more of the extracted physiological parameters. In some embodiments of the above method the processing may include windowing the signal into short overlapping time segments and extracting the physiological parameters from each window using estimates of the parameters from prior windows to adaptively update the estimate for the current window. In some embodiments one or more additional physiological parameters may be extracted from the physiological parameters extracted from the data. For example 2 6 parameters extracted from the data may be combined and additional parameters may be extracted from the combined 2 6 parameters. The first physiological parameter may be extracted from data representing periods of stillness for example where the first physiological parameter is heart rate or respiration the heart rate or respiration may be extracted from data representing periods during which the monitored subject does not otherwise move. Alternatively the first physiological parameter may be extracted from data representing periods of movement. In some embodiments collection of data and or another step may be performed substantially continuously for a period of time.

Embodiments herein described provide apparatuses for monitoring sleep. An apparatus in accordance with various embodiments may comprise a load cell configured for placement below a bed support the load cell further configured to convert force to a signal such as an electrical signal indicative of the force and a computing device coupled to the load cell the computing device comprising computer executable instructions for receiving signals from the load cell processing the signals extracting a physiological feature from the signal data and identifying an incident of a sleep disorder which includes but is not limited to obstructive sleep apnea central sleep apnea Cheyne Stokes breathing Periodic Leg Movements in Sleep and Restless Leg Movements. The computer executable instructions may comprise a pattern recognition algorithm. In some embodiments an apparatus for monitoring sleep may further include a transceiver coupled to at least one of the computing device and the load cell. In an embodiment further comprising an alarm the computer executable instructions may be operable to actuate the alarm in response to identifying an incident of abnormal respiration.

In embodiments one or more load cells may be placed beneath supports of a bed to unobtrusively monitor subjects while they sleep. Patterns of changing pressure at each support may be analyzed and inferences about various sleep parameters may be made. Data from the load cells may be collected in a person s home and collected data may be processed to extract information about the person s respiration heart rate PLM and or other physiological parameters. Such information may be used in the diagnosis of a sleep disorder and or to monitor a sleep disorder or an associated treatment. Systems in accordance with embodiments may also be used by physicians and or others to monitor a patient s subject s sleep in hospitals laboratories and or health facilities. Systems and methods may also be used to monitor sleep over time without imposing on the subject s sleep.

In embodiments a computing device may be adapted to send data to external computing device to communicate information about a subject s sleep. Computing device may include a personal computer a handheld computing device a wireless communication device or any computing apparatus known in the art and may be located near the bed or in another location. External computing device may be a computing device located in another device such as a medical office hospital caretaker s residence laboratory etc. One or both of computing device and or external computing device may be equipped with an alarm and logic to activate an alarm in response to an indication of a sleep disturbance abnormal movement.

Systems and methods in accordance with various embodiments may provide for the detection of sleep disturbances by a computing device programmed with executable code operable to process signals from load cells coupled to the computing device. In some methods one or more steps may be performed automatically by a computing device. In an embodiment all steps of a method may be performed automatically by a computing device. Processing of signals may include filtering and or decimating a portion of load cell signal data. In embodiments one or more algorithms may be applied to signal data and or to data produced by signal data processing to identify differentiate between movements during sleep that are associated with respiration PLM and or cardiac activity of a subject.

In some embodiments the load cell signal may be filtered to eliminate all other frequencies except those associated with the respiration signal. As an example contains several segments where the load cell signals have been frequency filtered to only contain the respiratory signal. The respiration rate was calculated by detecting the respiration peaks in the filtered load cell signal and by determining how many peaks were present in a known time period. The respiration rate calculated in this manner RR was comparable to the clinical estimate of respiration RR.

In another embodiment the cardiac activity may be extracted from the load cell signal using the frequency content of the signal. contains an example where the frequency content of a load cell signal is shown to be associated with the heart rate frequencies that were estimated using the pulse rate as calculated by a pulse oximeter. In the fundamental pulse rate frequency lower black trace was estimated by dividing the pulse rate by 60 and the first harmonic of the pulse rate frequency upper black trace was estimated by dividing the pulse rate by 30.

In embodiments the variance of the load cell signal may be used to detect other movements during sleep that are not associated with the breathing or cardiac activity of the subject. Regions of movement will have greater variance than regions of non movement. In some embodiments these movements could be used to detect large body movements in order to segregate the load cell signal into periods of quiescence where the respiration and cardiac movements are detectable. In other embodiments periodic movements may be used to detect periodic leg movements or PLMs. One or more algorithms may also be applied to processed unprocessed signal data to identify and or distinguish between sleep parameters such as periods of central apnea obstructive apnea mixed apnea comprising both central and obstructive apnea and or hypopnea.

In some embodiments one or more signal processing techniques may be used to differentiate between central apnea obstructive apnea mixed apnea and or hypopnea. One or more statistical pattern classification techniques may be used to differentiate between different movement types such as differentiating between PLMs restless leg movements normal leg motion and normal limb motion. Additional algorithms may be used to extract parameters of respiration cardiac activity and or motion associated with a stage of sleep. In some embodiments of the above methods the processing may include windowing the signal into short overlapping time segments and extracting physiological parameters from each window which may include but are not limited to the amplitude of the respiration signal the variance of the respiration and cardiac signal and the amount of variance in the detected movements that are not associated with the breathing or cardiac signal such as body or limb movements. These physiological parameters may be used to distinguish which class of breathing class of body movement or class of sleep stage the segment represents. In an embodiment statistical pattern classification may be used to determine the class of breathing class of body movement or class of sleep stage by utilizing the probabilities that each physiological parameter belongs to a specific class. In an embodiment data indicative of motion may be provided periodically and or continuously to a computing device by a load sensor and the computing device may integrate the data to detect and or to signal the detection of a pattern of movement associated with a sleep disturbance such as a period of apnea. In an embodiment the provision integration signaling may be performed automatically by one or more computing devices.

Methods of monitoring sleep in a home environment may include collecting data from load sensors and analyzing the collected data to identify and or categorize movements of the subject during sleep. In an embodiment a method of monitoring sleep in a home environment may include extracting periods of movement from the data using an algorithm determining respiration rate from periods of stillness and identifying periods of apnea and or hypopnea. A sleep monitoring method may further include differentiating PLMs from other types of movements. In some embodiments a sleep monitoring method may be performed periodically automatically by an apparatus comprising one or more load cells coupled to a computing system device. In some embodiments a method of monitoring sleep in a home environment may comprise collecting data from load cells placed under supports of a subject s bed filtering and or decimating the data extracting features from the raw and filtered load cell signals and using the statistical distribution of the features to train a classifier to differentiate between categories of movement based on the probabilities that the features belong to each category. The classifier may be a simple Bayesian classifier in which the parameters of the classifier are approximated using the maximum likelihood probabilities of a training set of data which contains examples of the sleep patterns of interest. In other embodiments the classifier may use any of a number of well known supervised and unsupervised machine learning techniques such as neural networks or support vector machines. In an embodiment this method may be used to differentiate normal and disrupted breathing. In some embodiments a method may be used to differentiate PLM and other types of movements. In some embodiments a method may be used to differentiate regular from irregular heart rate. In embodiments performance of a step may trigger performance of another step. One or more steps may be performed by a computing device while other steps may be performed manually.

The example discussed below demonstrates the use of load cells to detect disordered respiration during sleep in a home environment in accordance with various embodiments. In this example data were collected from load cells placed under beds of subjects to be monitored during sleep. Features were extracted from raw and filtered load cell signals and used to train a Bayesian classifier to differentiate normal and disruptive breathing. Embodiments may vary as to the methods of feature extraction classifier and or classifier training. The example discussed below is for illustrative purposes only and is not intended to be limiting.

The polysomnography data were scored clinically to obtain periods of apnea and hypopnea. The clinically determined times and durations of hypopneas and central apneas were used to segment the load cell data for analysis. Representative samples of hypopneas obstructive apneas N 150 and of central apneas N 150 were segmented from the load cell data. An additional 150 samples of normal breathing that did not contain apneic events were also segmented from the load cell data. The duration of the normal breathing segments was chosen to be the average of the 300 apneic events 20 seconds.

The entire load cell signal from each load cell x t was low pass filtered to 5 Hz and then decimated to 10 Hz. It was then further filtered using a 7order low pass Chebyshev Type II filter to isolate the respiration signal. The low pass filter had a stop band edge frequency of 0.45 Hz was monotonic in the passband and attenuated the stop band by 40 dB.

For each load cell i the signal was separately decimated down sampled x t and filtered as described above x t . These signals were then segmented based on the polysomnography data as described above. shows sample signals from the PSG the decimated load cell segment x t and the filtered load cell segment x t for each class of breathing data normal breathing central apnea and hypopnea. The left column depicts an epoch of normal breathing the middle column depicts a central apnea and the right column depicts a hypopnea. The upper row contains decimated data from the load cell placed under the upper middle support of the bed. The middle row contains filtered load cell data from the same sensor. The bottom row contains data from the PSG respiratory inductive plethysmography abdomen belt during the 30 second epoch. The vertical line indicates the time point where the respective respiratory event was scored by an OHSU sleep lab technician. This data shows a similar cessation of breathing signal in the load cell as in the abdomen belt during a central apnea. The peak to peak amplitude in the load cell signal also decreases during the hypopnea similar to the decrease seen in the abdomen belt signal.

Eight features were extracted from each load cell period k for each load cell i. The index i is dropped for clarity. From the decimated signal segments x t various features were extracted.

Normalized average power of the signal in the three frequency bands 0 0.5 Hz 0.6 0.75 Hz and 0.75 5 Hz . These measures provided information about the relative frequency content in each of these bands. Normal breathing periods would be expected to have a larger signal in the lower frequency range corresponding to the stronger respiration signal. To calculate the average power each signal sample was treated as part of a wide sense stationary process with non zero average power. The power spectral density PSD of the period S was calculated by first multiplying the decimated signal x t segment by a Blackman window to get the signal x t and then using the normalized and squared absolute value of the Fourier transform on this modified segment 

The Blackman window reduces the side lobe amplitude in the estimated spectrum by about 58 dB and has a roll off of about 18 dB per octave. The average power P in a given frequency band F F is calculated from the PSD S as

Spectral entropy SE of the signal. SE was calculated by finding the PSD of the decimated load cell signal x t segmenting the PSD into 100 equal frequency bins f normalizing each bin s average power to find its probability density p and using the equation 

Respiration amplitude RA. RA was estimated by dividing each segment into overlapping 5 second windows that have starting points offset by 0.1 seconds finding the range of the data in each window and then taking the median of all the ranges. A peak detection algorithm to find inspiration peaks and troughs was not utilized in this example because they are not always easily identifiable in disordered breathing especially in cases of central apneas. However in some embodiments a simple peak detection algorithm and or similar algorithm may be used to find inspiration peaks and or troughs by identifying local maxima and minima which represent the peaks and troughs of respiration in a signal filtered to only contain the respiration signal.

To separate the load cell respiratory segments into the three classes Bayesian learning was used to determine the class conditional probabilities P x w by fitting the features from each class with a multivariate normal density where x is the set of features for a particular respiration segment and wrepresents iclass. Likelihood ratios were used to assign each observation to one of the groups. The performance of the classifier was assessed using 10 fold cross validation. The 150 data segments from each class were divided into 10 disjoint sets of 15 samples. The classifier was trained 10 times each time with one set of samples held out for validation. The 10 fold cross validation was performed for each load cell and each load cell was allowed to vote for the classification of each true event. The class with the most votes was selected as the predicted class. In the case where more than one class shared the most votes the class predicted by the load cell under the upper middle of the bed was selected. Finally the sensitivity and specificity of the classifier were averaged over the ten iterations for each class.

Clinically the measure most often used to assess sleep disordered breathing is the Apnea Hypopnea Index AHI which does not differentiate between apneas and hypopneas. Therefore the method described was used to separate the load cell respiratory segments into two classes periods of disordered breathing combined data of the hypopneas obstructive apneas and central apneas N 300 and periods of normal breathing N 150 . The average sensitivity and specificity for this classifier were also found using 10 fold cross validation. However this time the 300 combined data segments for the disordered breathing were divided into 10 disjoint sets of 30 samples that were randomly sampled without replacement. The 150 normal breathing segments were divided as explained above. In some embodiments other methods of dividing normal abnormal breathing segments may be used.

Tables 1 and 2 below show the sensitivity and specificity obtained for each type of breathing event in the illustrated example. The specificity was reasonably high in this example for the disordered breathing events apneas and hypopneas . The confusion matrix shows that hypopneas were primarily confused with normal breathing in this example although some were confused with central apneas. The feature that best differentiated the hypopneas from other classes was the normalized power in the 0.6 0.75 Hz frequency band.

Results were better when the disordered breathing events were considered as a single group as is done clinically when calculating AHI. The sensitivity and specificity for discerning disordered breathing segments was 0.77 and 0.91 respectively and the sensitivity and specificity for discerning normal breathing segments was 0.91 and 0.77 respectively.

Embodiments of methods systems and apparatuses for detecting sleep apnea may include various classifiers to separate different types of movement associated with events such as respiration cardiac activity PLM normal movements and other sleep related movements. The overall performance of the above classifier in separating normal breathing from disordered breathing was acceptable.

In some embodiments other classifiers may be used to discriminate hypopneas from apneas. The scoring of apneas and hypopneas in PSG may be scored according to two different rules as described by the American Academy of Sleep Medicine AASM guidelines. Hypopneas are quite distinguishable visually from apneas in the load cell data and in some embodiments these breathing events may be classified by a variety of methods. Some embodiments may include features that provide information about the time course of the signal during the event such as features derived from wavelets.

The above example focuses on the classification of different breathing events from load cell data segmented using the PSG data as a gold standard. In other embodiments a classifier may include additional features and or be trained with a larger training set. In some embodiments quiescent periods may be automatically segmented by type of breathing central apnea hypopnea and normal breathing . This may be used for estimating an apnea hypopnea index from in home data. Some embodiments may also include identifying types of movements to the classification and assessment of Periodic Leg Movements which is another common symptom of disrupted sleep.

The potential of this technology for assessing sleep disorders lies in its unobtrusive nature and on the fact that it may be used to assess disrupted sleep in a person s own bed. The potential cost savings in a tool that may be used to pre screen for sleep apnea or to follow treatment is significant.

Although certain embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that a wide variety of alternate and or equivalent embodiments or implementations calculated to achieve the same purposes may be substituted for the embodiments shown and described without departing from the scope. Those with skill in the art will readily appreciate that embodiments may be implemented in a very wide variety of ways. This application is intended to cover any adaptations or variations of the embodiments discussed herein. Therefore it is manifestly intended that embodiments be limited only by the claims and the equivalents thereof.

