---

title: Providing a marketplace for sensor data
abstract: In one embodiment, a method includes accessing first information identifying a sensor-data set that includes sensor-data from multiple sensor-data streams from multiple sensors over a period of time, with the sensor data from the sensor-data streams having been combined with each other based on a relationship of the sensor data to a sensor subject; accessing second information identifying one or more offers to purchase the sensor-data set; and matching one of the offers with the sensor-data set to facilitate a purchase of the sensor-data set based at least on the one of the offers matched to the sensor-data set.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08489463&OS=08489463&RS=08489463
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 08489463
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101020
---
A sensor network may include distributed autonomous sensors. Uses of sensor networks include but are not limited to military applications industrial process monitoring and control machine health monitoring environment and habitat monitoring utility usage healthcare applications home automation and traffic control. A sensor in a sensor network is typically equipped with a communications interface a controller and an energy source such as a battery .

In one embodiment a method includes accessing first information identifying a sensor data set that includes sensor data from multiple sensor data streams from multiple sensors over a period of time with the sensor data from the sensor data streams having been combined with each other based on a relationship of the sensor data to a sensor subject accessing second information identifying one or more offers to purchase the sensor data set and matching one of the offers with the sensor data set to facilitate a purchase of the sensor data set based at least on the one of the offers matched to the sensor data set.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable communication network . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of communication network may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a virtual private network VPN a local area network LAN a wireless LAN WLAN a wide area network WAN a wireless WAN WWAN a metropolitan area network MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN a cellular telephone network or a combination of two or more of these. Communication network may include one or more communication networks . Similarly this disclosure contemplates any suitable sensor network . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more portions of sensor network may include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular telephone network or a combination of two or more of these. Sensor network may include one or more sensor networks .

Connections may connect sensor network data aggregator system data merchant system and purchaser client system to communication network or to each other. Similarly connections may connect sensors to each other in sensor network or to other equipment in sensor network or to communication network . This disclosure contemplates any suitable connections . In particular embodiments one or more connections include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH connections. In particular embodiments one or more connections each include an ad hoc network an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a WWAN a MAN a portion of the Internet a portion of the PSTN a cellular telephone network another connection or a combination of two or more such connections . Connections need not necessarily be the same throughout system . One or more first connections may differ in one or more respects from one or more second connections .

Sensor network includes one or more sensors . In particular embodiments a sensor includes one or more devices that may measure or otherwise sense one or more physical quantities and convert the sensed physical quantities into or generate based on the sensed physical quantities one or more signals. Example physical quantities include but are not limited to chemical concentration electrical fields gravity humidity light location magnetic fields motion orientation pressure shear stress sound temperature tension or compression torsion and vibration. A signal may be a digital or analog electrical signal. Example sensors include but are not limited to an audio sensor electricity meter gas meter Global Positioning System GPS locator motion detector potentiometer which may for example operate as a fuel gauge pressure sensor which may for example operate as an altimeter barometer depth sensor flow sensor or leak sensor still or video camera thermometer and water meter. In particular embodiments sensor may include one or more sensors and may be unitary or distributed. This disclosure contemplates any suitable sensors .

In particular embodiments one or more sensors each include one or more devices that may send receive or forward information such as sensor data over a communication channel for example to one or more other sensors or other equipment in sensor network or to data aggregator system . In particular embodiments sensor data are one or more signals that one or more sensors have converted one or more sensed physical quantities into or generated based on one or more sensed physical quantities. In particular embodiments a sensor data stream is a sequence of sensor data generated by a sensor which sensor may transmit more or less continuously as it generates the sensor data or periodically in batches. Reference to sensor data may encompass a sensor data stream and vice versa where appropriate. Sensor data may relate to a sensor subject. This disclosure contemplates any suitable sensor subject. As an example and not by way of limitation a sensor subject may be a person or group of persons place such as for example a geographical location thing such as for example a building road or car model concept discipline time period event field of study interest issue knowledge base topic or other sensor subject. Sensor data or a sensor data stream may relate to a sensor subject in any suitable way. As an example and not by way of limitation sensor data may relate to a sensor subject because one or more sensors generated the sensor data from one or more stimuli produced by the sensor subject. As another example sensor data may relate to a sensor subject because the sensor data may provide insight or further understanding of the sensor subject. As another example sensor data may relate to a sensor subject because it may help detect or predict the occurrence of one or more problems or events concerning the sensor subject. As another example sensor data may relate to a sensor subject because it may facilitate monitoring of the sensor subject.

In particular embodiments when a sensor transmits sensor data sensor may tag the sensor data or otherwise identify it as being related to a particular sensor subject. As an example and not by way of limitation a sensor may have one or more sensor identifiers IDs and generate only particular sensor data related to a particular sensor subject. One or more sensors may be connected to a network such as for example an Internet Protocol IP network that assigns unique identifiers to each terminal node. A network host may assign an IP address to each sensor and the IP address assigned to sensor may provide a sensor ID for sensor . As another example one or more sensors may each have a network interface with a unique ID such as for example a Media Access Control MAC address an Ethernet hardware address EHA or another hardware address an adapter address or a physical address and the unique ID of the network interface may provide a sensor ID for sensor . As another example geographic information about a sensor such as for example the geographic location of sensor as identified by the Global Positioning System GPS may provide a sensor ID for sensor . As another example one or more properties of a sensor such as for example its sensor type may provide a sensor ID for sensor . When a sensor transmits sensor data that it has generated sensor may transmit the sensor data along with one or more sensor IDs of sensor . The present disclosure contemplates any suitable sensor IDs containing any suitable information. As an example and not by way of limitation a sensor ID for a sensor may be a combination of two or more of the sensor IDs described above where appropriate. Moreover the present disclosure contemplates any suitable tags for sensor data.

Data aggregator system or another device in system may use one or more tags such as for example sensor IDs to determine that sensor data is related to a particular sensor subject. In addition or as an alternative to sensor data being tagged or otherwise identified as being related to a particular sensor subject by sensor that generated the sensor data another sensor data aggregator system or other suitable equipment in sensor network may tag or otherwise identify the sensor data as being related to a particular sensor subject. As an example and not by way of limitation data aggregator system may receive one or more data sets from one or more sensors . Sensor data in the data set may include or have associated with it tags identifying sensor IDs of sensors . Data aggregator system may determine a sensor subject related to the data set by querying the sensor IDs to a suitable record such as for example a lookup table or index indicating the sensor subject associated with the sensor IDs.

In particular embodiments a sensor may have one or more resources for carrying out its functions. These resources may include but are not limited to processing capabilities memory and power. Sensor may have one or more processors and one or memory devices. This disclosure contemplates sensor having any suitable number of any suitable processors and memory devices. Sensor may have an internal power source such as for example one or more rechargeable or replaceable batteries or receive power from an external power source such as for example an electrical grid . Sensor may include one or more solar panels to provide power to it. This disclosure contemplates sensors having any suitable sources of power. Other resources of sensor may but need not in all cases include software such as for example application software middleware system software firmware and device drivers. This disclosure contemplates sensor including any suitable resources for carrying out its functions. All sensors in sensor network need not have the same resources different sensors may have different resources. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more first sensors may each have substantial processing capabilities large amounts of memory and almost unlimited power while one or more second sensor nodes may each have very limited processing capabilities memory and power. As another example one or more first sensors may each have software running on them enabling them to perform a variety of functions including higher level ones such as tagging sensor data while one or more second sensors may each have less or scaled down software running on them enabling them to perform fewer functions or only lower level ones . This disclosure contemplates any suitable diversity in the resources available to sensors throughout system .

In particular embodiments data aggregator system receives one or more data streams from one or more sensors in sensor network and combines sensor data from those data streams with each other based on relationships of the sensor data to one or more sensor subjects. Data aggregator system may include one or more computer systems such as for example servers and may be unitary or distributed. Data aggregator system may include one or more data aggregator systems . This disclosure contemplates any suitable data aggregator system . Data aggregator system may collect data from sensors or sensor network . As an example and not by way of limitation a sensor may store sensor data and transmit it to data aggregator system periodically in batches. As another example sensor may continuously transmit sensor data to data aggregator system as it generates the sensor data. As another example sensor may transmit sensor data to data aggregator system after receiving a request for sensor data from for example data aggregator system or data merchant system . As another example sensor may transmit sensor data to data aggregator system after receiving an indication that one or more persons or entities which may be a sensor subject of the sensor data have consented to or authorized the transmission of the sensor data.

In particular embodiments data aggregator system may store categorize combine and file data from one or more data streams from one or more sensors over time. In particular embodiments data aggregator system may combine and store data sets based on a variety of criteria. For example data aggregator system may combine data sets from a plurality of data streams based on a particular sensor subject such as for example a specific person or group of persons the sensor is monitoring a location or environment the sensor is monitoring a type of sensor a time period or event when the sensor recorded the data other appropriate criteria or a combination of two or more such criteria. As another example data aggregator system may combine data sets from a plurality of data streams based on time such as for example by using a moving average or auto regressive algorithm. As another example data aggregator system may combine data sets from a plurality of data streams based on the geography of sensors that generated the data streams such as for example aggregating data based on the spatial correlation of sensors . As another example data aggregator system may combine data sets from a plurality of data streams based on pre defined characteristics of the data streams such as for example aggregating data based on a query offer or user input that specifies a particular suitable characteristic that may serve as a basis for aggregation.

In particular embodiments data aggregator system may anonymize one or more data sets such as for example by removing information from a data set that identifies directly or indirectly one or more of the subjects associated with the data set. In particular embodiments data aggregator system may perform a data integrity function on one or more data sets such as for example by encrypting the data using digital certificates having the data authenticated by a third party system or by using trusted data collectors wherein the sensor data is generated and data integrity is maintained through limited APIs to access the database. In particular embodiments data aggregator system may tag one or more data sets with information describing how the data has been combined.

In particular embodiments sensor network may be probed periodically for sensor data. As an example and not by way of limitation a query may be routed from a requesting system such as for example data aggregator system data merchant system or purchaser client system to one or more sensors in sensor network . Sensor may respond by transmitting a data stream containing some or all of the data requested. Data aggregator system may then store categorize combine and file some or all of this data. Data aggregator system may also transmit some or all of this data to one or more other systems such as for example data merchant system or purchaser client system .

In particular embodiments data merchant system functions as a broker for sensor data from one or more sensors in sensor network . Data merchant system may include one or more computer systems such as for example servers and may be unitary or distributed. Data merchant system may include one or more data merchant systems . In particular embodiments data merchant system provides an infrastructure for buying selling transmitting and receiving sensor data from sensors . As an example and not by way of limitation data merchant system may receive one or more offers to purchase one or more data sets from sensors . Data merchant system may then transmit a request or query to data aggregator system for information on the data sets available to or stored by data aggregator system . Data aggregator system may then transmit information to data merchant system describing the data sets available to or stored by data aggregator system . Data merchant system may then compare the offers to purchase with the data sets available to or stored by data aggregator system and match one or more of the offers with one or more of the data sets to facilitate a purchase of the one or more of the data sets based on the matching of the offers and the data sets. As another example data merchant system may receive one or more offers to purchase one or more data sets relating to particular sensors or particular sensor subjects from sensors . Data merchant system may then transmit a request or query to data aggregator system for information on the relevant data sets available to or stored by data aggregator system . One or more sensors may tag or otherwise identify sensor data as relating to a particular sensor subject. In addition or as an alternative to sensor data being tagged or otherwise identified as being related to a particular sensor subject by sensors one or more sensors may have a sensor ID that identifies the particular sensor or a particular sensor subject. Data aggregator system may then determine the relevant data sets available to or stored by data aggregator system by analyzing the tags sensors IDs or other identifying information on the sensor data generated by sensors . Data aggregator system may then transmit information to data merchant system describing the relevant data sets available to or stored by data aggregator system . Data merchant system may then compare the offers to purchase with the relevant data sets available to or stored by data aggregator system and match one or more of the offers with one or more of the relevant data sets to facilitate a purchase of the one or more of the data sets based on the matching of the offers and the data sets.

In particular embodiments data merchant system may facilitate the purchase of sensor data sets from sensors by determining costs and facilitating payments between relevant parties. As an example and not by way of limitation data merchant may receive one or more offers to purchase one or more data sets from sensors . Data merchant system may then determine the aggregate cost of purchasing the data sets. If there are a plurality of sellers of the sensor data data merchant system may facilitate the sorting of prices and offers such as for example finding the lowest priced data sets or data sets with a specified price range. If there are a plurality of offers from a plurality of purchasers data merchant system may facilitate the dividing or sharing this aggregate cost among the purchasers. Data merchant system may also facilitate payment to one or more owners or brokers of the sensor data. Data merchant system may also facilitate payment of a commission to the marketplace owner such as for example the owner of data merchant system .

In particular embodiments if particular sensor data sets are available but not currently stored by data aggregator system data aggregator system may facilitate the generation or acquisition of such data sets from sensors . As another example data merchant system may receive one or more offers to purchase one or more data sets relating to particular sensors or particular sensor subjects from sensors . Data merchant system may then transmit a request or query to data aggregator system for information on the relevant data sets available to data aggregator system . One or more sensors may tag or otherwise identify sensor data as relating to a particular sensor subject. In addition or as an alternative to sensor data being tagged or otherwise identified as being related to a particular sensor subject by sensors one or more sensors may have a sensor ID that identifies the particular sensor or a particular sensor subject. One or more sensors may also have a cost associated with it such as for example a price of data set in terms of legal currency per byte of sensor data. Data aggregator system may then determine the relevant data sets available to data aggregator system by querying sensors for sensor data or analyzing recorded sensors data relating to the tags sensors IDs or other identifying information on the sensor data generated by sensors . Data aggregator system may also compute the resources needed to gather that data such as for example processing resources storage resources time cost or other suitable resources. Data aggregator system may then transmit information to data merchant system describing the relevant data sets available to data aggregator system . Data merchant system may then compare the offers to purchase with the relevant data sets available to data aggregator system and match one or more of the offers with one or more of the relevant data sets to facilitate a purchase of the one or more of the data sets based on the matching of the offers and the data sets.

In particular embodiments data merchant system may facilitate transmitting purchased sensor data sets from sensors to a purchaser. As an example and not by way of limitation data merchant system may receive one or more indications that one or more data sets from sensors have been purchased. Data merchant system may then transmit a command to data aggregator system to transmit the one or more data sets to another system such as for example data merchant system or purchaser client system . In particular embodiments data aggregator system and data merchant system may be contained in a single system that acts as both an aggregator and broker of sensor data.

In particular embodiments purchaser client system may purchase sensor data by accessing data merchant system through communication network . As an example and not by way of limitation purchaser client system may access a website hosted by or associated with data merchant system . Data merchant system may facilitate accessing and matching offers to sell or purchase sensor data using one or more navigation applications. Navigation applications include search applications that enable keyword searches of listings in data merchant system and browse applications that allow users to browse various category catalogue or inventory data structures of listings in data merchant system . This disclosure contemplates any suitable navigation application for facilitating accessing and matching offers to sell or purchase sensor data.

In particular embodiments data merchant system may utilize a client server architecture for hosting a broker platform for sensor data. As an example and not by way of limitation data merchant system may comprises one or more API servers web servers database servers and application servers. An API server and web server may provide programmatic and web interfaces. A database server may facilitate access to one or more databases. An application server may host one or more applications. Data merchant system may host one or more broker applications and payments applications. Data merchant system may provide a various functions and services to purchasers via for example purchaser client system who access data merchant system . As an example and not by way of limitation data merchant system may provide a number of listing price setting and purchasing mechanisms whereby a seller of sensor data may list sensor data for sale a purchaser may express interest in or indicate a desire to purchase such sensor data a price may be set for purchasing the sensor data and a purchaser and seller may be matched to facilitate a purchase of such sensor data. Data merchant system may facilitate such a purchase using one or more broker applications which may implement the listing price setting and purchasing mechanisms described above. Broker applications include auction applications that support auction format listing and price setting mechanisms such as for example English auctions Dutch auctions Vickrey auctions Reverse auctions Short bid auctions . Broker applications also include fixed price applications that supports fixed priced listing formats such as for example classified advertisement type listings catalogue listings and buyout type listings such as for example auctions listings containing a set price that any bidder may accept at any time to end the auction and purchase the item . This disclosure contemplates any suitable broker application for facilitating a purchase of sensor data. In particular embodiments a broker application may facilitate setting purchase prices and generating pricing structures for sensor data from sensors . As an example and not by way of limitation a premium price may be charged for real time sensor data compared with data that has been aggregated and stored for a time period. As another example a premium price may be charged for exclusive access to data from one or more sensors . As another example a premium price may be charged for aggregated sensor data that has been sorted and filtered. This disclosure contemplates any suitable prices and price structures for purchasing sensor data. In particular embodiments data merchant system may facilitate the rating and tracking of sellers of sensor data allowing potential purchasers to for example judge the marketability of a particular seller s sensor data.

In particular embodiments data merchant system may facilitate listing of sensor data for sale using one or more listing management applications that enable sellers to author and manage such listings. As an example and not by way of limitation a seller of sensor data may generate one or more listings on data merchant system offering to sell one or more sensor data sets. The listings may be for example auction format listings fixed price listings or buyout type listings. The listings may include for example information regarding the sensor data being offered a price for purchasing the sensor data and any other information regarding the offer to sell or the sensor data. A purchaser via for example purchaser client system may then access these listings on data merchant system for example by accessing a website hosted or associated with data merchant system . The purchaser may then place a bid in response to an offer to sell sensor data accept or reject the offer or generate a counteroffer. As another example a potential purchaser of sensor data may generate one or more listings on data merchant system offering to buy one or more sensor data sets. The listings may be for example auction format listings such as for example a reverse auction fixed price listings or buyout type listings. The listings may include for example information regarding the sensor data the purchaser is expressing an interest in or indicating a desire to purchase a price for purchasing the sensor data and any other information regarding the offer to buy or the sensor data. A seller via for example data aggregator system may then access these listings on data merchant system for example by accessing a website hosted or associated with data merchant system . The seller may then place a bid in response to an offer to buy sensor data accept or reject an offer or generate a counteroffer. This disclosure contemplates any suitable method for facilitating a purchase of sensor data utilizing the resources of system . In particular embodiments data merchant system may facilitate payment between parties such as for example from a purchaser to a seller of sensor data. In particular embodiment data merchant system may facilitate transfer of sensor data between parties such as for example from a seller of sensor data to a purchaser. As an example and not by way of limitation data merchant system may facilitate a peer to peer data transfer of sensor data from a seller to a purchaser.

In particular embodiments data merchant system may facilitate ranking the quality of sensor data. Sensor data sets sensors data streams sensors or sensor may be given a quality score related to the data in the sensor data sets sensor data streams sensors or sensor network . The quality score may be based on a variety of criteria such as for example time lag sampling rate sensor reliability sensor sensitivity sensor type sensor location sensor subject type prior history of the seller of the sensor data a combination of two or more of these criteria or other suitable criteria. In particular embodiments data merchant system may facilitate the purchase of one or more sensor data sets from one or more sensors based on the quality score of the data sets or the sensors . As an example and not by way of limitation data merchant system may receive one or more offers to purchase one or more data sets from sensors . Data merchant system may then determine a price for the data sets based on an algorithm based on the quality score of the sensor data such as for example the average price of the data set multiplied by the quality score as a percentage.

In particular embodiments data merchant system may facilitate the purchase of various rights to data from sensors . The rights to sensor data that may be purchased include the right to own the right to transfer the right to use the right to destroy the right to modify the right to reproduce other suitable rights or a combination of two or more such rights. These rights may be granted on an exclusive or non exclusive basis. This disclosure contemplates the purchase of any suitable rights or set or rights to sensor data. In particular embodiments data merchant system may facilitate the purchase of rights to data from sensors for a variety of time periods. The rights to sensor data may be purchased permanently temporarily contingently or for another suitable period. As an example and not by way of limitation data merchant system may facilitate the purchase of a subscription to one or more data streams for a specific period of time. As another example data merchant system may facilitate the purchase of a lease to one or more data streams for a specific period of time. As another example data merchant system may facilitate the purchase of membership to a service that provides one or more data streams for a specific period of time. This disclosure contemplates the purchase of data sets for any suitable time period. In particular embodiments data merchant system may provide access to one or more data sets for a specific period of time. As an example and not by way of limitation data merchant system may continuously transmit one or more data streams to another system such as for example purchaser client system for a specific period of time. As another example data merchant system may host one or more data streams on a network addressable system that may be accessed by another system. This disclosure contemplates any suitable method of providing access to data sets for specific periods of time.

In particular embodiments data merchant system may facilitate the purchase of data from sensors in exchange for a variety of types of consideration. Consideration for purchase of sensor data may include legal currency virtual currency goods services other suitable consideration or a combination of two or more types of consideration. This disclosure contemplates the purchase of sensor data in exchange for any suitable consideration. In particular embodiments the purchaser of sensor data may use the data for mining targeted advertising or other applications.

Particular embodiments may provide a standardized frame work for the exchanges of sensor data. Sensors may communicate using any suitable data format such as for example JAVASCRIPT Object Notation JSON YAML Ain t Markup Language or Yet Another Markup Language YAML Hierarchical Data Format HDF Ordered Graph Data Language OGDL Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable formats. As an example and not by way of limitation sensors in sensor network may communicate sensor data using XML. Standardization may facilitate the interoperability among sensors data aggregator system data merchant system and purchaser client system . In particular embodiments sensor data may be include definitions categories or other annotations in the header format of transport or routing protocols and sensors may transmit one or more data streams using these options. These options may be identified by a type relations or subject and may represent various sensor related information.

In particular embodiments an aggregator node is a node in a system that collects sensor data from a set of sensors which may be a subset of all sensors in a sensor network . The set of sensors that an aggregator node may collect sensor data from may as an example and not by way of limitation include sensors that are within a physical or logical neighborhood of aggregator node . An aggregator node may include one or more computer systems such as for example servers and may be unitary or distributed. An aggregator node may include one or more aggregator nodes . Aggregator node may provide an infrastructure for collecting and aggregating data from sensors . In particular embodiments each aggregator node is responsible for collecting sensor data from a set of sensors in its physical or logical neighborhood. Aggregator node may collect and aggregate a particular set of data from the set of sensors or all sensor data generated by the set of sensors . Each sensor may transmit a sensor data stream to one or more aggregator nodes . As an example and not by way of limitation each sensor may transmit a sensor data stream to the nearest aggregator node . A sensor may periodically inform one or more aggregator nodes about the sensor data that it has generated or may update its aggregator node only when deemed necessary. In particular embodiments aggregator nodes may operate hierarchically such that an aggregator node may collect data from one or more other aggregator nodes .

In particular embodiments a data aggregator system uses a query response infrastructure with programmable primitives. As an example and not by way of limitation a data aggregator system may receive one or more queries such as for example from a purchaser client system for real time sensor data from particular subjects. The data aggregator system may send one or more requests for the sensor data to aggregator nodes and sensors . This request may include information describing the query and instruction for how to aggregate the sensor data from sensors . The sensors may then respond by transmitting the requested sensor data to the aggregator nodes which may aggregate the data and respond by transmitting the aggregated data to data aggregator system .

In some embodiments aggregator nodes may be programmable to support any request or query for data from a purchaser client system . In other embodiments aggregator nodes may have some pre defined functions or macros over which the aggregator nodes may aggregate. As an example and not by way of limitation macros may include wavelet FFT decomposition or other fingerprinting techniques. In particular embodiments macros may be hardware accelerated in DSPs and FPGAs such as FFT enabling wire speed summarization.

In particular embodiments an aggregator node may aggregate sensor data using spatial factors. An aggregator node may collect data from one or more sensors that are spatially nearby neighbors. Aggregator node may then provide a statistical characterization of the sensor data generated by a set of sensors . As an example and not by way of limitation an aggregator node may provide a mean median mode standard deviation Gaussian distribution log normal other suitable characterization of the data or two or more such characterizations of the data. The aggregator node may collect and provide the statistical characterization of the data in real time and transmit this data to data aggregator system in real time.

In particular embodiments an aggregator node may aggregate sensor data using temporal factors. An aggregator node may collect data from one or more sensors based on a time series of the sensor data. Aggregator node may then provide a statistical characterization of the sensor data generated by a set of sensors . As an example and not by way of limitation an aggregator node may provide a moving average or autoregressive or integrated or a combination of the aforementioned models. The time period over which aggregator node may collect data may be any suitable finite time period. As an example and not by way of limitation the time period may be a predefined window as defined by a query request macro or function.

In particular embodiments an aggregator node may aggregate sensor data using both spatial and temporal factors. An aggregator node may collect data from one or more sensors based both the spacial proximity of the sensors and on the time series of the sensor data. In particular embodiments complex sensor data with multidimensional and temporal characteristics may be aggregated using multilinear algebraic techniques such as for example tensor decomposition and aggregator node may only transmit key coffecients to the data aggregator system .

In particular embodiments a data aggregator system uses a publish subscribe infrastructure with programmable primitives. As an example and not by way of limitation a data aggregator system may receive one or more queries such as for example from a purchaser client system for real time sensor data in a particular geographic area. The data aggregator system may send one or more requests for the sensor data to aggregator nodes and sensors . This request may include information describing the query and instruction for how to aggregate the sensor data from sensors . The sensors may then publish sensor data to the aggregator nodes which may aggregate the data and publish the data to data aggregator system . In particular embodiments a user of purchaser client system may subscribe to data aggregator system and may receive push notification of aggregated data being aggregator node and statistical characterizations of sensor data from aggregator node .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable number of computer systems . This disclosure contemplates computer system taking any suitable physical form. As example and not by way of limitation computer system may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate computer system may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate one or more computer systems may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation one or more computer systems may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more computer systems may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments computer system includes a processor memory storage an input output I O interface a communication interface and a bus . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular computer system having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable computer system having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor or include one or more processors . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular processor this disclosure contemplates any suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory includes main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor executes only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and operates only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory includes random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM. This disclosure contemplates any suitable RAM. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular memory this disclosure contemplates any suitable memory.

In particular embodiments storage includes mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to computer system where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage is non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage includes read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. This disclosure contemplates mass storage taking any suitable physical form. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate. Where appropriate storage may include one or more storages . Although this disclosure describes and illustrates particular storage this disclosure contemplates any suitable storage.

In particular embodiments I O interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between computer system and one or more I O devices. Computer system may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and computer system . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touch screen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. This disclosure contemplates any suitable I O devices and any suitable I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular I O interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable I O interface.

In particular embodiments communication interface includes hardware software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between computer system and one or more other computer systems or one or more networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a WI FI network. This disclosure contemplates any suitable network and any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation computer system may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example computer system may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Computer system may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular communication interface this disclosure contemplates any suitable communication interface.

In particular embodiments bus includes hardware software or both coupling components of computer system to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or another suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include one or more buses where appropriate. Although this disclosure describes and illustrates a particular bus this disclosure contemplates any suitable bus or interconnect.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more non transitory tangible computer readable storage media possessing structure. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive or another suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. A computer readable non transitory storage medium may be volatile non volatile or a combination of volatile and non volatile where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody software. Herein reference to software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate. In particular embodiments software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs . This disclosure contemplates any suitable software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages. In particular embodiments software is expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Links couple servers and clients to network or to each other. This disclosure contemplates any suitable links . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more links each include one or more wireline such as for example Digital Subscriber Line DSL or Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS wireless such as for example Wi Fi or Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX or optical such as for example Synchronous Optical Network SONET or Synchronous Digital Hierarchy SDH links . In particular embodiments one or more links each includes an intranet an extranet a VPN a LAN a WLAN a WAN a MAN a communications network a satellite network a portion of the Internet or another link or a combination of two or more such links . Links need not necessarily be the same throughout network environment . One or more first links may differ in one or more respects from one or more second links .

This disclosure contemplates any suitable servers . As an example and not by way of limitation one or more servers may each include one or more advertising servers applications servers catalog servers communications servers database servers exchange servers fax servers file servers game servers home servers mail servers message servers news servers name or DNS servers print servers proxy servers sound servers standalone servers web servers or web feed servers. In particular embodiments a server includes hardware software or both for providing the functionality of server . As an example and not by way of limitation a server that operates as a web server may be capable of hosting websites containing web pages or elements of web pages and include appropriate hardware software or both for doing so. In particular embodiments a web server may host HTML or other suitable files or dynamically create or constitute files for web pages on request. In response to a Hyper Text Transfer Protocol HTTP or other request from a client the web server may communicate one or more such files to client . As another example a server that operates as a mail server may be capable of providing e mail services to one or more clients . As another example a server that operates as a database server may be capable of providing an interface for interacting with one or more data stores such as for example data stores described below . Where appropriate a server may include one or more servers be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

In particular embodiments one or more links may couple a server to one or more data stores . A data store may store any suitable information and the contents of a data store may be organized in any suitable manner. As an example and not by way or limitation the contents of a data store may be stored as a dimensional flat hierarchical network object oriented relational XML or other suitable database or a combination or two or more of these. A data store or a server coupled to it may include a database management system or other hardware or software for managing the contents of data store . The database management system may perform read and write operations delete or erase data perform data deduplication query or search the contents of data store or provide other access to data store .

In particular embodiments one or more servers may each include one or more search engines . A search engine may include hardware software or both for providing the functionality of search engine . As an example and not by way of limitation a search engine may implement one or more search algorithms to identify network resources in response to search queries received at search engine one or more ranking algorithms to rank identified network resources or one or more summarization algorithms to summarize identified network resources. In particular embodiments a ranking algorithm implemented by a search engine may use a machine learned ranking formula which the ranking algorithm may obtain automatically from a set of training data constructed from pairs of search queries and selected Uniform Resource Locators URLs where appropriate.

In particular embodiments one or more servers may each include one or more data monitors collectors . A data monitor collection may include hardware software or both for providing the functionality of data collector collector . As an example and not by way of limitation a data monitor collector at a server may monitor and collect network traffic data at server and store the network traffic data in one or more data stores . In particular embodiments server or another device may extract pairs of search queries and selected URLs from the network traffic data where appropriate.

This disclosure contemplates any suitable clients . A client may enable a user at client to access or otherwise communicate with network servers or other clients . As an example and not by way of limitation a client may have a web browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER or MOZILLA FIREFOX and may have one or more add ons plug ins or other extensions such as GOOGLE TOOLBAR or YAHOO TOOLBAR. A client may be an electronic device including hardware software or both for providing the functionality of client . As an example and not by way of limitation a client may where appropriate be an embedded computer system an SOC an SBC such as for example a COM or SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a PDA a netbook computer system a server a tablet computer system or a combination of two or more of these. Where appropriate a client may include one or more clients be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines span multiple datacenters or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks.

Herein or is inclusive and not exclusive unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A or B means A B or both unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Moreover and is both joint and several unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context. Therefore herein A and B means A and B jointly or severally unless expressly indicated otherwise or indicated otherwise by context.

This disclosure encompasses all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Similarly where appropriate the appended claims encompass all changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications to the example embodiments herein that a person having ordinary skill in the art would comprehend. Moreover reference in the appended claims to an apparatus or system or a component of an apparatus or system being adapted to arranged to capable of configured to enabled to operable to or operative to perform a particular function encompasses that apparatus system component whether or not it or that particular function is activated turned on or unlocked as long as that apparatus system or component is so adapted arranged capable configured enabled operable or operative.

