---

title: Television set
abstract: A media appliance comprising: video apparatus for outputting signals to a screen; a network interface for accessing a packet-based network; a memory storing a communication client application; and processing apparatus arranged to execute the communication client application. The client application is configured to allow a local user of the media appliance to participate in bidirectional communication sessions with other remote users via the network interface and packet-based network. The client application is further configured so as: to receive an invitation signal from a remote user terminal over the packet-based network, the received invitation signal comprising a trigger condition specifying a future event for triggering participation of the media appliance in a proposed one of said communication sessions with said remote user terminal; to monitor the received trigger condition at said media appliance; and to join the proposed session in dependence on an occurrence of said event.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08369498&OS=08369498&RS=08369498
owner: Skype
number: 08369498
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20100726
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 or 365 to Great Britain Application No. 1005465.8 filed Mar. 31 2010. The entire teachings of the above application are incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a television apparatus having an embedded processing apparatus for conducting voice or video calls via a packet based network.

Some communication systems allow the user of a terminal such as a personal computer to conduct voice or video calls over a packet based computer network such as the Internet. Such communication systems include voice or video over internet protocol VoIP systems. These systems are beneficial to the user as they are often of significantly lower cost than conventional fixed line or mobile networks. This may particularly be the case for long distance communication. To use a VoIP system the user installs and executes client software on their terminal. The client software sets up the VoIP connections as well as providing other functions such as registration and authentication. In addition to voice communication the client may also set up connections for other communication media such as instant messaging IM SMS messaging file transfer and voicemail.

One type of communication system for packet based communication uses a peer to peer P2P topology. To enable access to a peer to peer system a user executes P2P client software supplied by a P2P software provider on their terminal and registers with the P2P system. When the user registers with the P2P system the client software is provided with a digital certificate from a server. This may be referred to as a user identity certificate UIC . Once the client software has been provided with the certificate then calls or other communication connections can subsequently be set up and routed between end users peers of the P2P system without the further use of a server in the call set up. Instead the client looks up the required IP addresses from information distributed amongst the P2P client software on other end users terminals within the P2P system. That is the address look up list is distributed amongst the peers themselves. Once the IP address of a callee s terminal has thus been determined the caller s P2P client software then exchanges UIC certificates with the callee s P2P client software. The exchange of these digital certificates between users provides proof of the users identities and that they are suitably authorized and authenticated in the P2P system. Therefore the presentation of digital certificates provides trust in the identity of the users.

It is therefore a characteristic of peer to peer communication that once registered the users can set up their own communication routes through the P2P system in at least a partially decentralized manner based on distributed address look up and or the exchange of one or more digital certificates without using a server for those purposes. Further details of an example P2P system are disclosed in WO 2005 008524 and WO 2005 009019.

VoIP or other packet based communications can also be implemented using non P2P systems that do use centralized call set up and or authorisation e.g. via server.

A problem with packet based communications is that their accessibility to users is limited. In particular such communications are most commonly accessed using a personal computer. This has the disadvantage that the user must be sufficiently technically competent to download install and operate the packet based communication client software on their personal computer which provides a barrier to the take up. Even when the communication client is installed and executed on a personal computer its use may be limited because personal computers are often not located in a place where the user is either familiar or comfortable with communicating. For example a personal computer is often located in a study which for many users is not the most natural or comfortable environment for making phone calls.

Whilst packet based communication systems can also be accessed via certain mobile devices these generally do not have processing resources or display screens available to offer a full range of features such as video calling.

It would therefore be desirable to make packet based communications more accessible to users. One way to do this would be to run a packet based communication client on a processor embedded in a familiar household media appliance like a television set or set top box for plugging into a television. Embedded in this context means within the casing of the appliance. The ability to integrate an embedded processor into a television set or set top box is known and indeed many modern televisions and boxes already contain a processor for performing at least some of the digital signal processing required to decode and output viewable television signals to the screen.

However the inventors have recognised that one or more potential problems may still exist due to a conflict between the added functionality of the client application and the existing functionality of a conventional television or other such media appliance.

Particularly operation of the client is likely to interfere with the user s viewing activity. For example users may not wish to conduct calls during a favorite television programme or whilst viewing content from external sources like an external DVD player games console etc.

According to one aspect of the present invention there is provided a media appliance comprising video apparatus for outputting signals to a screen a network interface for accessing a packet based network a memory storing a communication client application and processing apparatus coupled to the memory network interface and video apparatus and arranged to execute the communication client application wherein the client application is configured so as when executed to allow a local user of the media appliance to participate in bidirectional communication sessions with other remote users via the network interface and packet based network and the client application is further configured so as when executed to receive an invitation signal from a remote user terminal over the packet based network the received invitation signal comprising a trigger condition specifying a future event for triggering participation of the media appliance in a proposed one of said communication sessions with said remote user terminal to monitor the received trigger condition at said media appliance and to join the proposed session in dependence on an occurrence of said event.

The present invention thus provides a mechanism for planning calls or other such communication sessions around the times of viewing activities such as television programmes DVD or video games. Particularly according to the present invention the invitation contains the means to initiate the session. That is the condition that initiates the session is defined by the remote user and hence the session can be planned around the viewing activity of not just the local user receiving the incoming call but also the remote user.

For example the invite may be generated by a sender who might or might not know the availability of the called party. One scenario could be that the sender wants to send an invite independently of the status of the called party e.g. Why don t you join us for a slideshow with pictures from our holiday on Sunday evening . Another scenario could be that the called party was busy so that the caller got a busy tone and then sent an invitation for a later session.

In embodiments the client application may be configured to generate a first control prompt on the screen upon receiving the invitation signal wherein said monitoring may be dependent on an user input from the local user in response to the first control prompt.

The client application may be configured to generate a second control prompt on the screen upon occurrence of said event wherein said joining may be further dependent on an user input from the local user in response to the second control prompt.

The received invitation signal may comprise information for use in at least one of said first and second control prompts.

The appliance may comprise power control circuitry coupled to the processing apparatus and screen wherein the client application may be configured to issue a power control command to the power control circuitry upon at least one of receipt of the invitation signal and occurrence of the event so as to turn on the screen to display at least one of the first and second control prompts respectively.

The client application may be configured so as when executed to allow a local user of the media appliance to participate in multiparty communication sessions with multiple other remote users via the network interface and packet based network and the received invitation signal may comprise a trigger condition specifying a future event for triggering a proposed one of said multiparty communication sessions with a plurality of remote user terminals including the remote user terminal from which the invitation signal was received.

The trigger condition may specify a future event for triggering participation of the media appliance in a voice or video call with said remote user terminal via the network interface and packet based network wherein the client application may be configured to join the voice or video call in dependence on the occurrence of said event.

The trigger condition may specify a future event for triggering participation of the media appliance in an interactive photo slideshow hosted by said remote user terminal over the packet based network wherein the client application may be configured to join the interactive photo slideshow in dependence on the occurrence of said event.

The specified event may comprise a scheduled time wherein the client application may be configured to monitor whether a current time matches the scheduled time and to join the proposed session in dependence on the match.

The specified event may comprise receipt of a trigger signal from the remote user terminal over the packet based network wherein the client application may be configured to monitor for receipt of the trigger signal and to join the proposed session in dependence its receipt.

The media appliance may comprise a control device allowing a user to control the output of signals from the video apparatus to the television screen thereby selecting a viewing activity wherein said event may comprise a delineation in the viewing activity and the client application may be configured to detect an occurrence of the delineation in said viewing activity and to join the proposed session in dependence of said detection.

The media appliance may comprise a television receiver for receiving television signals representing television programmes via a television network the video apparatus may be coupled to the television receiver and may be operable to output the television signals of selected television programmes from the television receiver to the screen the control device may allow a user to control the output of television signals to the screen thereby selecting a television programmes as said viewing activity and said event may comprise a delineation in the selected television programme wherein the client application may be configured to detect an occurrence of the delineation in said television programme and to join the proposed session in dependence of said detection.

According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a media appliance comprising video apparatus for outputting signals to a screen a network interface for accessing a packet based network a memory storing a communication client application and processing apparatus coupled to the memory network interface and video apparatus and arranged to execute the communication client application wherein the client application is configured so as when executed to allow a local user of the media appliance to conduct bidirectional communication sessions with other remote users via the network interface and packet based network and the client application is further configured so as when executed to transmit an invitation signal to a remote user terminal over the packet based network the transmitted invitation signal comprising a trigger condition specifying a future event for triggering participation of the remote terminal in a proposed one of said communication sessions with the media appliance and to establish the proposed session in dependence a response to the invitation signal from the remote user terminal based on evaluation of the condition at the remote user terminal.

According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of operating a media appliance comprising video apparatus for outputting signals to a screen a network interface for accessing a packet based network and an embedded processing apparatus the method comprising executing a communication client application on the processing apparatus of the media appliance the client application being configured so as when executed to allow a local user of the media appliance to participate in bidirectional communication sessions with other remote users via the network interface and packet based network and receiving an invitation signal from a remote user terminal over the packet based network the received invitation signal comprising a trigger condition specifying a future event for triggering participation of the media appliance in a proposed one of said communication sessions with said remote user terminal wherein the execution of the client application further comprises monitoring the received trigger condition at said media appliance and joining the proposed session in dependence on an occurrence of said event.

According to another aspect of the present invention there is provided communication client application for operating a media appliance comprising video apparatus for outputting signals to a screen and a network interface for accessing a packet based network the communication client application comprising code embodied on a computer readable medium and configured so as when executed on a processing apparatus of the media appliance to enable a local user of the media appliance to participate in bidirectional communication sessions with other remote users via the network interface and packet based network receive an invitation signal from a remote user terminal over the packet based network the received invitation signal comprising a trigger condition specifying a future event for triggering participation of the media appliance in a proposed one of said communication sessions with said remote user terminal monitor the received trigger condition at said media appliance and join the proposed session in dependence on an occurrence of said event.

In embodiments the communication client may be configured in accordance with any feature of an appliance described above.

The difference between a broadcast and a communication made over a packet based network is that broadcast signals are transmitted indiscriminately without transmitting to selected destination devices and regardless of whether the end user has selected to receive the signal although a decryption key or such like may still be required so that only authoried users can derive meaningful information from the television signal for viewing . Packet based communications on the other hand are point to point with an address of the intended destination device being included in the packets. In the case of packet based television signals transmitted over the Internet these are still point to multipoint communications rather than a broadcast.

Each computer terminal is installed with a communication client application . Each computer terminal also comprises an audio transceiver comprising a speaker and microphone e.g. in the form of a headset or handset or a built in speaker and microphone. Most computer terminals preferably also comprise a webcam . Furthermore each television set comprises an embedded processor and memory installed with a version of the communication client application specially adapted for running on a television set. Each television set also comprises a webcam and an audio transceiver with speaker and microphone or is connected or communicable with such components. In a particularly preferred embodiment an audio transceiver is provided in a remote control unit of the television discussed shortly.

The communication client applications and are preferably peer to peer clients for setting up and conducting VoIP calls according to peer to peer principles as discussed above. To that end a peer to peer backend server is coupled to the Internet for receiving registration requests from the client applications and . The back end server is arranged to distribute UIC certificates to the respective client applications and running on the computer terminals and television sets in response to the registration requests. Once registered and thus in possession of a UIC certificate the client applications and or can look up one another s addresses exchange and authenticate one another s certificates and thus establish a voice or video call over the Internet . It will be appreciated however that other kinds of communication client could alternatively be used e.g. based on centralized server based call set up.

In addition the communication system may comprise a telephone network such as a circuit switched network and a gateway connecting between the Internet and the telephone network . A gateway version of the client application is arranged to run on the gateway and a communication client application or running on a computer terminal or television set is thus able to establish a call with a dedicated phone unit of the telephone network . This is achieved by establishing a connection with the client on the gateway using peer to peer call set up and then supplying the relevant telephone number to the gateway effectively the user s client or sees the gateway as a peer . The phone network may for example comprise a fixed line network landline and or a mobile cellular network.

As shown in the remote control unit or just remote control comprises a microphone speaker a first remote interface in the form of an infrared IR transmitter and a second remote interface in the form of a short range RF interface such as a Bluetooth interface. The microphone and speaker are operatively coupled to the Bluetooth interface . The remote control is thus arranged to communicate voice signals from the microphone to the television via the Bluetooth interface and to receive voice signals from the television via the Bluetooth interface for playing out of the speaker .

The remote control further comprises a plurality of buttons operatively coupled to the infrared transmitter arranged so as to allow the user to control the television via the infrared transmitter . The buttons comprise a standby button for setting the television into a low power mode. The buttons further comprise numerical or alphanumeric buttons for changing channel or supplying other numerical or alphanumerical data to the television function buttons for controlling various functions of the television e.g. for controlling a cursor and or menu system and optionally dedicated calling buttons for performing specific dedicated operations relating to the calling functionality of the client application e.g. call hang up or buttons for zooming in and out during a video call.

The televisions set comprises within a single casing an embedded processing apparatus a random access memory RAM and an embedded non volatile storage device which may comprise an electronically erasable and reprogrammable memory EEPROM or flash memory a magnetic storage medium and or a one time writable ROM. The non volatile storage device is coupled to the processing apparatus and stores a basic operating system OS a television application and a communication client application such as a VoIP client. The processing apparatus is arranged to execute the operating system e.g. either by fetching instructions directly from ROM or by first loading from a flash memory into the RAM before fetching. When executed the operating system is configured to load the television application and client application into RAM and schedule them for execution on the processing apparatus . The processing apparatus is thus arranged to run the television application and client application under control of the operating system . In embodiments only a minimal operating system may be required in the form of a basic scheduler.

The television set further comprises within the same casing a video frame buffer and user interface UI frame buffer video hardware a screen an amplifier and speaker or output to an external speaker or headphones a television receiver an external audio video AV input such as a SCART or HDMI input from an external source a webcam or webcam input for connecting to an external webcam a network interface in the form of a first short range RF transceiver such as a wi fi transceiver a first remote interface in the form of an infrared IR receiver and a second remote interface in the form of a second short range RF transceiver such as a Bluetooth transceiver.

The video frame buffer and user interface UI frame buffer each have an input coupled to the processing apparatus . The video hardware has an input coupled to the outputs of the video frame buffer and UI frame buffer . The screen has an input to the output of the video hardware . In embodiments the frame buffers and could be dedicated hardware buffers or alternatively could be implemented in a general purpose memory. The amplifier has an input coupled to the processing apparatus and an output coupled to the speaker . The processing apparatus is further coupled to the network interface television receiver auxiliary input webcam input infrared interface and Bluetooth interface .

Any or all of the above components may be coupled to the processing apparatus via intermediate components such as a bus and or cache not shown as will be understood by a person skilled in the art.

The television receiver comprises an input for connecting to at least one reception means such as an antenna satellite dish or cable line and is thus arranged to receive television broadcast signals from the television network via the reception means. The television receiver is a hardware front end which may comprise for example sampling circuitry a low noise amplifier a filter a mixer and or an analogue to digital converter ADC . Once received by the television receiver unit the television signals are thus made available to the processing apparatus for signal processing. The television application comprises a signal processing engine in the form of code which when executed performs at least some of the required signal processing on the received television signals. The processed television signals are then output to the video frame buffer and amplifier for consumption by the end user. The signal processing engine may comprise for example a digital filter demodulator demultiplexer decoder decryption block and or error checking block. However different ways of allocating the television receiver and processing functionality between software and dedicated hardware are also possible. E.g. in embodiments more of the functionality such as the demultiplexing could be moved to the receiver front end . Techniques for receiving and processing television signals will be known to a person skilled in the art.

In the case of traditional analogue television broadcasts the signals of a plurality of different concurrent programs of different TV channels are frequency division multiplexed over the airwaves by being transmitted on different frequencies. The television receiver will then comprise a tuning circuit to demultiplex the broadcasts and thereby separate out the signal of the required programme. In the case of digital television broadcasts the signals of different concurrent programs are each divided into packets and interleaved so as to time division multiplex the different programs signals into a transport stream for broadcast. The signal processing engine of the television application will then comprise a packet filter to demultiplex the packets of different transport streams and so separate out the signal of the required programme. Multiple transport streams may also be broadcast on different frequencies requiring a tuner as well. Furthermore for digital television one or more of the transport streams may comprise additional programme information such as an electronic programme guide EPG .

Video signals for output to the television screen may also be received via the AV input from an external source such as a DVD player or games console.

The television application further comprises a UI graphics engine a remote protocol engine an application programming interface API and a television UI layer. The overall operation of the signal processing engine UI graphics engine remote protocol engine and API is controlled by the television UI layer. The user can select which broadcast to view by pressing buttons on the remote control causing the remote control to communicate control signals to the processing apparatus via the infrared transmitter and receiver . The user may also use the buttons in a similar manner to view additional information such as the EPG or control menus and to navigate the EPG or menus. The relevant control signals are interpreted by the remote protocol engine of the television application which in turn communicates with the television UI layer. In response the television UI layer controls the signal processing engine to output the relevant television programme to the video frame buffer and or controls the UI graphics engine to output graphics to the UI frame buffer e.g. to display the graphics of the menu or EPG . The frame buffers and or supply their contents to the video hardware for display on the screen . In embodiments the UI frame buffer and video hardware may be arranged to overlay UI graphics over the current television programme in a partially transparent manner and or to leave at least part of the television programme visible.

As mentioned the television set comprises a network interface . In preferred embodiments this takes the form of a wireless transceiver such as a wi fi transceiver for communicating wirelessly with a household or office based wireless router as found in most modern homes or offices. The router in turn connects to the Internet . However in alternative embodiments the network interface may comprise other options such as a wired modem or a port to an external wired modem.

The communication client application comprises a protocol stack having an I O layer which when executed on the processing unit is operable to transmit and receive signals over the Internet via the network interface . The I O layer comprises a network signalling protocol for transmitting and receiving control signals over the Internet via the network interface . The I O layer may also comprise an API for communicating with the API of the television application .

The I O layer further comprises a voice engine comprising a voice codec. The voice engine is arranged to accept speech signals from the microphone and to encode those speech signals for transmission over the internet via the network interface . The voice engine is also arranged to decode speech signals received over the Internet via the network interface for output to the television s amplifier and speaker or to the speaker in the remote control via the Bluetooth interfaces and . The I O layer further comprises a video engine comprising a video codec. The video engine is arranged to accept video signals from the webcam input and to encode those video signals for transmission over the Internet via the network interface . The video engine is also arranged to decode video signals received over the Internet via the network interface for output to the UI frame buffer video hardware and screen . Alternatively in a full screen mode the video codec could output video via the video frame buffer .

Higher up the protocol stack the client application comprises a client engine which is responsible for call set up. The client engine controls the network signalling protocol engine of the client in order to establish a live voice or video call with another user terminal or over the Internet preferably using P2P call set up as discussed above or potentially using a centralized call set up via a server. The client engine may also handle other functions such as connection management authentication encryption and or exchanging presence information with the client applications or of other user terminals presence information indicates the availability of a user for communication and is preferably at least partially defined by the respective user themselves .

Even higher up the protocol stack the client application comprises a client UI layer which is responsible for the client s user interface. The client UI layer is operable to generate a client user interface for output to the UI frame buffer video hardware and screen . This may be output via the APIs and the UI graphics engine of the TV application under control of the TV UI layer or alternatively the client application could be provided with its own UI graphics protocol to output graphics to the UI frame buffer directly . The client user interface thus presents the user with on screen controls which they can activate using buttons on the remote control . Based on these button presses the remote control communicates control signals to the processing apparatus via the infrared transmitter and receiver . These control signals may be interpreted by the UI protocol engine in the television application and then signalled via the APIs to the I O layer of the client application or alternatively the I O layer of the client application could be provided with its own remote control protocol to interpret these control signals directly . In turn the protocol of the I O layer of the client communicates with the client UI layer. The client UI layer is thus configured to respond to user inputs in order to control the overall operation of the client application e.g. allowing a user to select contacts to call hand up etc.

Furthermore the UI layer of the client may be configured to communicate with the UI layer of the television application via the APIs and the operating system . This allows the client application and television application to negotiate control of the screen and or speaker or .

Whether the client application or television application takes precedence may depend on the implementation and or situation. Since the television set is primarily a television then preferably the client application should require permission from the television application before controlling the screen or speaker or . However in embodiments a user defined setting may be provided allowing the user to control whether or not the client application can autonomously take control of the screen and or speaker or e.g. to notify the user in event of an incoming call. This setting would preferably be stored in a non volatile memory and be readable by the client application and or television application . E.g. the television application may be configured to read a setting from memory and if set to unequivocally allow the client application to control the screen and or speaker. Alternatively the client application may be configured to read a setting from memory and if set to control the screen and or speaker without seeking permission from the television application .

Referring to in a particularly advantageous embodiment of the present invention the client application is configured to receive and interpret signals carrying automated invitations from other remote user terminals or over the Internet or other packet based network via the network interface . An automated invitation signal comprises a condition specifying a future event for triggering a communication session such as a scheduled time or the end of a particular television programme. If the local user accepts the invitation the local invitee client is set to automatically monitor the condition and join the session upon the condition being met i.e. upon occurrence of the event. So the condition is generated and transmitted by the remote inviter terminal but evaluated and acted upon at the local invitee terminal.

As shown in assuming the feature is not disabled by a user setting when an invitation signal is initially received at the local communication client then it may automatically output a first on screen control prompt to the screen . The prompt comprises an on screen indication that the local user has been invited to a join a communication session and may indicate the type of session.

For example the proposed session could be a voice or video call. In one particularly useful application the proposed session is a multiparty voice or video conference. Multiparty voice or video conference is a term generally used in the art to mean a call with multiple other remote users i.e. at least three users in total though note that conference in this sense does not necessarily imply a business conference and could also cover social scenarios . Other invitees would be invited to join in a similar manner.

In another particularly useful application the proposed session comprises an interactive photo slideshow preferably hosted on the remote terminal or of the remote user issuing the invitation. The interactive photo slideshow allows multiple other users to view a live slideshow of the host s photographs over the internet via the network interfaces and includes interactive features such as the joined invitees being able to comment on the show by voice call over the internet and network interfaces or being able to control aspects of the slideshow remotely by means of control signals fed back to the host over the internet via the network interfaces . E.g. other users than the host may be enabled to control the speed of the slideshow pause a certain slide move on to a next slide etc. A protocol may be provided to determine how the show is controlled in the event that two users issue contradictory control signals.

The first prompt may comprise an indication of the remote user who has sent the invitation signal to propose the session the inviter . It may also comprise an indication of the other invitees in the case of a multiparty session. The first prompt may further comprise a textual message signalled in the invitation signal from the remote user issuing the invitation or a predetermined textual message. Furthermore the first prompt may comprise an indication of the scheduled time for the proposed session or indication of another event upon which the beginning of the session is conditional see discussion below in relation to and .

Furthermore the first control prompt presents the local user with the option of accepting or declining the invitation. This user input may be provided using buttons or on the remote control .

In a particularly preferred embodiment the television set comprises a power control unit coupled to the processing apparatus and television screen for switching between two or more power modes of the television set . As well as fully on the power modes preferably include at least a standby type mode in which the screen is turned off but the processing apparatus and network interface are maintained at least at a certain level of operation enabling the client application to continue running and thereby monitor the network interface for incoming signals received over the internet . In this case the client application is preferably configured so as if an invitation signal should happen to arrive while the television screen is turned off to issue a power control command to the PCU controlling it to return the television to a higher power mode in which the screen is turned on enabling display of the first control prompt .

As shown in in one embodiment the condition signalled in the invitation signal comprises a scheduled time for the session to begin. In this case the client application monitors the current time. This could be done based on a local clock or by receiving updates of the current time from the Internet or television network . When the client detects that the current time matches the scheduled time it automatically outputs a second on screen control prompt to the screen . The second prompt comprises an indication that the time for the scheduled session has arrived and provides the user with the option to either join the session or decline. Again this user input may be provided using buttons or on the remote control . If the local user accepts the client engine of the client application performs the necessary set up signalling to join the call conference or other communication session.

The second prompt may also comprise additional information such as a reminder of the identity of the inviter or other invitees and or a textual message.

The client application and processing apparatus are preferably configured to continue monitoring the current time when the television set is in the low power standby type mode. If the screen is turned off when the scheduled time occurs the client application may issue a power control command in order to wake up the screen and thereby enable the second prompt to be displayed.

Although note the client will not monitor the condition nor output the second prompt if the local user declined the invitation in response to the first prompt . Note also that the reaction of the local user terminal to the received invitations and or to the events including the display pf the prompts and the joining of the call may be made dependent on a user setting of the local user invitee . E.g. by setting his or her presence status is set to do not disturb DND the invited user may suppress invitations and or suppress the subsequent joining of the session in response to the event even if the invitation was previously accepted.

As shown in in another embodiment the condition received in the invitation signal comprises a specified delineation in a viewing activity such as the end of a particular television programme that the local user invitee and or remoter user inviter may be watching. For example one or both may be fans of a particular programme during which they would want to be distracted by a call or other session but the inviter may want to ensure the session is not forgotten or the two may wish to automatically schedule a session to discuss the programme after it is over.

This could be done as in by scheduling a predetermined time at which the programme is supposed to end. An alternative however is discussed in relation to .

As illustrated schematically in a digital television broadcast may comprise audio data and video data of one or more programme streams all interleaved together i.e. time division multiplexed into a combined transport stream for transmission on a particular frequency. Also interleaved into the transport stream is additional program information providing timing information for the one or more programmes potentially amongst other information such as subtitles and textual programme summaries or pr cis . The additional programme information may take the form of a general data stream multiplexed into the transport stream in conjunction with a plurality of programme streams providing programme information for a plurality of programmes. An example of this would be an electronic program guide EPG . Alternatively or additionally individual respective programme information may be provided in the stream of each programme. For example the programme information may comprise a real time indication of the programme s actual end. The audio data video data and additional programme information are decoded by the signal processing engine of the television application and the required programme timing information can be accessed by the client application via the APIs under control of the TV UI layer.

Thus instead of a time the received invitation signal may comprise an indication of a particular television programme after which the session is to be scheduled. In this case the local client application the invitee is configured to map the indication received in the invitation signal received over the Internet via the local network interface to the relevant programme information received over the television network via the local television receiver and to monitor for the end of the programme accordingly. This may be achieved by comparing the current time to a time scheduled in the EPG or such like or by monitoring for receipt of a real time indication of the actual end of the programme in the programme information . The latter case is illustrated in which is preferred since it takes into account the possibility that a programme may overrun.

Another way to detect the end of the programme would be to download a television schedule from the internet . In further embodiments an alternative delineation in viewing activity that could be used to schedule the session would be the end of a computer game.

When the local invitee client detects the end of the television programme specified by the remote terminal inviter it generates the second on screen prompt in a similar manner to that described above. Again the local client may be configured to monitor for occurrence of the event in this example the end of the programme even if the television is in a standby type mode in which case it may be configured to wake up the screen upon occurrence of the event in order to display the second prompt .

In yet another alternative embodiment the event could be a trigger signal received by the local terminal invitee from the remote terminal inviter over the Internet via the network interface . For example the remote user who issued the invitation would later issue a second trigger signal when he or she is ready for the session to begin e.g. when a television programme they are watching has ended . In this case the condition received from the remote terminal comprises an indication to the local client invitee that it should enter a state in which it is primed to respond to a certain predetermined trigger signal the identity of the trigger signal itself need not be transmitted as a condition just an indication to the local client that the trigger signal is expected .

When the local invitee client detects the trigger signal from the remote terminal inviter it generates the second on screen prompt in a similar manner to that described above. Again the local client may be configured to monitor for occurrence of the event in this by monitoring the network interface for the trigger signal even if the television is in a standby type mode in which case it may be configured to wake up the screen upon occurrence of the event in order to display the second prompt .

For instance the above has been described in terms of a local client on a local terminal receiving invitations from a remote terminal. Conversely however the local client is preferably also configured to generate and transmit invitations to the remote clients on other terminals. That is the client on each of a plurality of terminals and or is preferably configured to both generate invitations for hosting or establishing sessions and receive interpret and evaluate invitations from other terminals and or .

Note also that the term programme does not limit to any particular kind of programme content and could refer for example to a film soap opera documentary sporting event news program etc.

Further other ways of allocating the various client television and other functionality amongst different processors are envisaged. For example one or more dedicated signal processors DSPs could be arranged to execute the television signal processing engine of the television application and or the video engine and or voice engine of the client application with one or more separate CPUs being arranged to execute the UI layer client engine protocol and graphics engines of the client application and or the UI layer and protocol and graphics engines of the television application . In another example the client application and television application would each be run on a different respective CPU embedded in the television set . Some or all of the functionality of the television application could alternatively be implemented in dedicated hardware including the possibility of hardwired signal processing apparatus in the television receiver front end .

Furthermore although the preferred application the invention is not limited to use in a television set having the above components including television screen all within one single self contained casing. In another application the invention could be implemented in a set top box for plugging into such a television set. In that case the diagram would be similar to that of but with the television hardware and screen replaced by an audio video AV output.

In another application as illustrated schematically in the described client application may be installed on a desktop or laptop PC type computer terminal or a mobile terminal having computing type functionality and Internet access. Similarly to the television the computer terminal comprises a processing apparatus in the form of one or more CPUs coupled to a non volatile storage means such as hard drive flash memory and or optical disc drive a RAM a webcam or input from a webcam and a network interface such as a wi fi transceiver for accessing a packet based network such as the Internet e.g. via wireless router . The processing apparatus is further coupled to graphics hardware sometime referred to as a graphics card or graphics adapter for outputting graphics to an external or inbuilt screen and coupled to sound hardware sometimes referred to as a sound card for outputting audio signals to external or inbuilt speakers or to headphones. The processing apparatus is further coupled to in input for receiving inputs from the user such a keyboard or keyboard input and or a touchpad touch screen or mouse input.

The computer terminal is also installed with other applications such as an email client and or web browser . In one particularly advantageous embodiment an API in the I O layer of the VoIP client may be configured to communicate with an API of the email client providing a plugin to the email client so that the two applications can share invitation information. E.g. so an invitation signal for the VoIP client may be interpreted by the email client and incorporated into its pre existing calendar feature and or an invitation for the calendar feature of the email client may be interpreted by the VoIP client and used to set up automated invitations to bidirectional communication sessions in a similar manner to that discussed above.

Generally speaking the present invention can be applied to any media appliance having video apparatus for outputting signals to a television screen. The video apparatus may comprise any combination of dedicated hardware and or regions of memory storing software modules with any software modules being executed on either the same or a different processor unit as the client application . Depending on the appliance and the implementation the video apparatus may take different forms. In the example television set of for example the video apparatus may be said to comprise a combination of the frame buffers and video hardware and or a region of the non volatile memory storing signal processing code of the television application. In the example computer terminal of the video apparatus may be said to comprise the video hardware and or a region of the non volatile storage storing code for displaying graphics.

Further the present invention need not be limited by television broadcasts. With increasing popularity of packet based television services there may be interest in the idea of a dedicated television set with the capability of receiving packet based television signals either over the Internet or a dedicated packet based service.

Furthermore note that the present invention is not limited particularly to VoIP or to a peer to peer topology. Other packet based networks protocols and methods of call set up may also be used.

Other variations of the present invention may be apparent to a person skilled in the art given the disclosure herein. The scope of the present invention is not limited by the described embodiments but only by the appendant claims.

