---

title: Extensible three dimensional circuit having parallel array channels
abstract: An extensible three dimensional circuit having parallel array channels includes an access layer and crossbar array layers overlying the access layer and being electrically connected to the access layer. The crossbar array layers include parallel channels, the parallel channels being formed from two classes of vias, the first class being pillar vias connected to relatively short stub lines, and the second class being traveling-line vias connected to long lines that travel away from the via; pillar vias and traveling-line vias being configured to connect to crossing lines such that each crossing point between the lines is uniquely addressed by one pillar via and one traveling-line via. Programmable crosspoint devices are disposed between the crossing lines.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08351234&OS=08351234&RS=08351234
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08351234
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100429
---
This invention has been made with government support under Contract No. HR0011 09 3 0001 awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Project Agency. The government has certain rights in the invention.

In the past decades the semiconductor industry has been improving the performance and density of integrated circuits primarily by shrinking the size of the electronic elements within the circuits. However a number of barriers are becoming evident which increase the difficulty of making further reduction to the size of these elements. One potential solution for increasing the performance and planar density of integrated circuits is to create three dimensional circuits which contain multiple layers of interconnected circuitry.

Throughout the drawings identical reference numbers designate similar but not necessarily identical elements.

There are many metrics that can be used to evaluate a three dimensional circuit and many trade offs that can be made between metric affecting parameters in any given design. For example extensibility addressability density edge effects active layer via spacing and trace topology may all be metrics which are used to evaluate and optimize the performance of a three dimensional circuit. Specific examples of these metrics are given below for a multilayer three dimensional memory circuit.

Extensibility What limits are there to the number of array layers in the three dimensional memory circuit 

Addressability How easily can the system translate between the logical address of a memory element and the physical address of the control vias of that element 

Density How well is each array layer utilized compared to a layer hypothetically populated with memory elements at maximum lithographic density Is the design amenable to double density techniques in which memory elements are formed on both sides of a given metal trace 

Edge Effects Is there wasted memory capacity at the periphery of the array layers or control issues with undriven traces Do the edge effects disrupt the regular addressability of memory elements by the system 

Active Layer Via Spacing Since the minimum feature size of the array layers may be less than that of the active drive circuit layer are the vias spaced out enough to be connected to by the active circuits 

Trace topology Relating to issues of inductive and resistive voltage drops and electromigration are the row and column lines single long snaking lines or are they pillars with many short trace stubs attached Can the vias be fattened to address these concerns without excessively disrupting the density or other design parameters 

One challenge in designing and manufacturing three dimensional circuits is to find a balance between the relevant metrics. For example some designs are extensible but have a fine grained structure that make addressability and edge effect handling difficult. Other designs that are easily addressable with no edge effects have low limits to the number of array layers. The illustrative designs below describe solutions which balance the relevant metrics to produce three dimensional circuits which are extensible mitigate the edge effects and are easily addressable. Other metrics such as memory density active layer spacing and trace topology are also addressed.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present systems and methods. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present apparatus systems and methods may be practiced without these specific details. Reference in the specification to an embodiment an example or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment or example is included in at least that one embodiment but not necessarily in other embodiments. The various instances of the phrase in one embodiment or similar phrases in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

As used in the specification and appended claims a crossbar array includes a set of upper crossbar wires a set of lower crossbar wires which cross the upper crossbar wires at a non zero angle and programmable crosspoint devices interposed between the wires at their crossing points.

According to one illustrative embodiment the programmable crosspoint devices are memristive devices. Memristive devices are described in U.S. Patent App. Pub. No. 2008 0079029 entitled Multi terminal Electrically Actuated Switch and U.S. Patent App. Pub. No. 2008 009033 entitled Electrically Actuated Switch both to R. Stanley Williams which are hereby incorporated in their entirety. Additionally or alternatively the programmable crosspoint devices may include memcapacitive devices. Various illustrative embodiments of memcapacitive devices are described in PCT Application No. PCT US2009 047164 to Dmitri Strukov et al. entitled Capacitive Crossbar Arrays filed Jun. 12 2009 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Throughout the specifications and appended claims the term programmable crosspoint device refers to a broad family of devices or technologies which provide the ability to program and sense state changes in devices which are interposed between crossing conductive elements. The term memristive device or memristor refers to a specific type of programmable crosspoint device which uses dopant motion within a matrix to alter the resistive state of the device.

Memristive devices exhibit a memory of past electrical conditions. For example a memristive device may include a matrix material which contains mobile dopants. These dopants can be moved within a matrix to dynamically alter the electrical operation of an electrical device. The motion of dopants can be induced by the application of a programming electrical voltage across a suitable matrix. The programming voltage generates a relatively high electrical field through the memristive matrix and alters the distribution of dopants within the matrix. After removal of the electrical field the location and characteristics of the dopants remain stable until the application of another programming electrical field. These changing dopant configurations within a matrix produce changes in the electrical resistance or other characteristics of the device.

The memristive device can be read by applying a lower reading voltage which allows the internal electrical resistance of the memristive device to be sensed but does not generate a high enough electrical field to cause significant dopant motion. According to one illustrative embodiment the memristive device exhibits a rectifying behavior similar to Schottky diode. The state of the memristive device can be read by applying a full forward voltage bias across a specified junction while reverse biasing other memristive devices in the array to suppress leakage currents.

Each of the memristive crosspoint devices may be used to represent one or more bits of data. For example in the simplest case memristive crosspoint devices may have two states a conductive state and a nonconductive state. The conductive state may represent a binary 1 and the nonconductive state may represent a binary 0 or vice versa. Binary data can be written into the crossbar array by changing the conductive state of the memristive crosspoint devices . The binary data can then be retrieved by sensing the state of the memristive crosspoint devices . Additionally or alternatively the crossbar array can incorporate memristive crosspoint devices which have more than two states.

There are a wide variety of interconnection architectures which can incorporate the illustrative principles described below. For example PCT Application No. PCT US2009 039666 to Dmitri Strukov et al. entitled Three Dimensional Multilayer Circuit filed Apr. 6 2009 describes various three dimensional interconnection schemes and is incorporated by reference in its entirety. Additionally various illustrative applications and examples of multilayer circuits which incorporate crossbar interconnections are given in Nano CMOS architectures using a field programmable nanowire interconnect Gregory Snider et al. Nanotechnology 18 035204 2007 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

For purposes of illustration the following examples assume a three dimensional memory circuit includes an access layer with area distributed access gates. The connections are made between the access gates and the overlying crossbar layer by vertical vias. The access layer may have a number of different forms including complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS or other conventional computer circuitry. This CMOS circuitry can provide additional functionality to the memristive device such as input output functions buffering logic or other functionality. In addition to the area distributed configuration illustrated the principles described could also be applied to access layers with peripherally distributed access devices. Overlying the access layer are multiple crossbar array layers. A crossbar array layer includes two classes of parallel control lines that cross each other with programmable crosspoint devices formed where pairs of control lines cross. To distinguish the two control line classes they will be termed row lines and column lines. 

According to the illustrative embodiments discussed below extensible three dimensional circuits may be organized so that each array layer includes a number of parallel array channels. The channels are formed between densely spaced via pillars arranged in parallel rows. Assuming these vias support the row lines of the memory then the other class of control lines the column lines travel along the channels formed by the row line vias in alternating orthogonal directions. This permits the column lines to travel away from their original active circuit layer connection point and interconnect with a large number of row lines. This traveling action enables a practically unbounded number of array layers. Meanwhile the regularity of the channel organization permits clean handling of edge effects through column line direction reversal and peripheral loopback signals. The regular channel organization and complete edge effect handling result in simple memory element addressability. Memory array layer utilization is on par with the best of other 3D memory circuit designs and fat column vias can be accommodated as necessary to support higher currents with minimal impact.

Throughout the specification and appended claims the cardinal directions north south east west are used to indicate directionality. North is used to indicate a direction which is upward on the page south is used to indicate a direction which is downward on the page east is used to indicate a direction which is to the right on the page and west is used to indicate a direction which is to the left on the page. These descriptions of directionality are used for purposes of description and do not limit the structures to specific orientations.

In each crossbar array programmable crosspoint devices are interposed between the column lines and the row lines . In this illustrative embodiment the column lines are on the bottom of each array and the row lines are on the top of each array with the programmable crosspoint devices in the center.

Row vias connect the row lines to an underlying access gate. In this embodiment the row vias form a pillar through circuit and the row lines extend from the pillar in various directions. The row lines or pillar stubs are electrically connected to and extend radially outward from the pillar vias . Similarly column vias interconnect the column lines . As described below the column lines travel through a parallel channel. As the column lines travel through the parallel channel they encounter new row lines and form unique interconnections.

As illustrated in the gates in the CMOS layer can be significantly larger than the lines they are attached to. Consequently it can be difficult to achieve optimal packing density of the gates in the CMOS layer and optimal packing density of the programmable crossbar devices in the crossbar arrays at the same time. One challenge is to connect the gates to the lines in the overlying crossbar arrays . Where the bottom of the lines is directly exposed to the underlying CMOS layer the gates can be placed anywhere along a line and connected to the line by a vertical via. This situation is illustrated in for the column lines . There are no other structures or layers between the bottom layer of column lines and the CMOS layer . Consequently there is some amount of design freedom in placing the column access gates beneath the column lines . However the row lines are not directly accessible from the CMOS layer . Consequently the row gates are located immediately below the row vias or a one time wiring layer can be used. Where a one time wiring layer is used the row gates can be located anywhere in the proximity of the row via . The one time wiring layer can then route the row gate to the appropriate row via .

In the specification and appended claims the term pillar lines refers to lines or groups of lines which travel vertically but not laterally through a three dimensional circuit except through stubs that are each a fraction of the full line length. Pillar lines maintain the same vertical via footprint in all layers. Vias which are connected to the pillar lines are called pillar vias. The term travelling lines refers to lines or groups of lines which move both vertically and laterally through a three dimensional circuit. Vias which are connected to the traveling lines are called traveling line vias. 

At the west end of segment B an interconnection via extends upward into a third crossbar array and connects segment B to segment C . Segment C addresses crosspoint devices in coordination with a third group of column lines . These unique row line column line pairings allow for unique addressing of each of the programmable crosspoint devices. According to one illustrative embodiment this pattern continues through all layers of the circuit until the traveling column line encounters the uppermost layer or the edge of the circuit. Although the path of only one column line is shown in the other column lines travel similar paths.

One technique to decrease the electrical resistance of the lines is to increase the cross sectional area of the lines. In some manufacturing processes increasing the vertical thickness of the wire segments that move laterally within an array layer can be relatively simple. This can create a situation where the cross section of vias is the limiting factor. High row via resistance may be particularly limiting when the row via is to carry the current of many fully selected memory elements during a full row read operation. shows an illustrative embodiment where the vertical row vias are enhanced to have a greater cross sectional area. This fat via cross section reduces the resistance of the row vias so that they can carry the combined read currents which are generated when reading multiple programmable crosspoint devices attached to the row vias.

As discussed above traveling lines can create a number of undesirable edge effects including undriven and underutilized lines. One principle of handling edge effects is for traveling lines to go in both directions in equal numbers so that the number of undriven lines that need to be sourced into a given side of the circuit equals the number of traveling lines that emerge from that side. One subtle aspect involves how the loopback connections are made. First the loopback connections are not made to the nearest channel since the traveling column lines have already created memory element connections to the row vias on both sides of the channel. By looping back to the nearest channel memory elements with non unique row and column line pair connections would be created. Consequently the loopback connections are made to a nonadjacent channel so that additional unique connections are formed.

In the first channel the direction of travel of the column lines is on alternate layers first upward and then toward the left. In this channel there are a number of underutilized column lines on its upper edge. Loopback traces connect these underutilized column lines to otherwise undriven column lines in the third parallel channel. At the bottom edge of the first channel there a number of undriven column lines which are connected to underutilized column lines at the bottom of the third channel by loop back traces .

In the second channel the direction of travel of the column lines is on alternate layers first downward and then to the right. In this channel there are a number of underutilized row lines that emerge from the circuit on its upper edge. Loopback traces connect these underutilized row lines to undriven row lines in the fourth parallel channel. At the bottom edge of the second channel there a number of undriven row lines which are connected to underutilized row lines that emerge from the circuit at the bottom of the fourth channel by loop back traces . Combining the undriven lines with the underutilized emerging lines forms lines with a full complement of crosspoint devices for each row and column line. This resolves a number of issues including eliminating gaps in the addressing scheme which are not useable and eliminating floating lines which may interfere with the operation of the circuit.

The loopback traces are formed in the same two metal layers as the row and column lines. For example loopback traces which connect the column lines are formed in the same metal layer as the column lines and loopback traces which connect the row lines are formed in the same metal layer as the row lines. As shown in these metal layers are separated by an insulating layer which can contain where selectively desired the programmable crosspoint devices. For purposes of illustration this insulating layer has been illustrated as being transparent. Consequently even through the loopback traces overlap each other they do not make electrical contact because they are separated by the insulating layer. Further no memristive connections are formed between the overlapping loopback lines since their creation in these locations disrupts the regular addressability of the array and so has been omitted. Relatively thick lines are used to illustrate loopback traces which are associated with column lines and thin lines are used to illustrate loopback traces associated with the row lines . However this is for purposes of illustration. In practice the loopback traces may have comparable widths.

In the array layer of the row lines extend east and west from row vias to cross column lines which extend north and south from column vias . A line of row vias between the first and second channels does not have any attached row lines in this layer. Other lines of row vias have row lines which extend in only one direction. Yet another line of row vias have row lines which extend in both directions. As each line of row vias pass upward through the circuit the configurations of row lines which attach to the row vias may change in each layer. For example the line of row vias between the first and second parallel channels may have no row lines attached in the first layer yet row lines which extend in two directions in the second layer.

As discussed above loop back traces can be used at the periphery of the circuit to connect undriven lines to emerging underutilized lines. This resolves the edge effect created by the termination of the column and row lines at the periphery of the circuit by looping the row and column lines back into the circuit .

In the first channel the column lines extend to the west and terminate on this layer at the column vias that connect the column lines to the overlying array layer. In the crossbar array layer of row lines extend both north and south from the line of row vias between the first and second channels. The row vias between the third and fourth channels do not have any row lines attached. The uppermost line of row vias has row lines which extend southward. According to one illustrative embodiment these changes in the number and direction of the row lines attached to the row vias does not impact the full row line utilization when an even number of layers is used in the design.

As illustrated in the loopback traces use a significant amount of area compared to the crossbar arrays. This is because the crossbar arrays have been artificially truncated for purposes of illustration. In practice the length of the channels in the crossbar array could be significantly longer and the overhead created by the loopback traces could be substantially lower.

As discussed above a number of metrics can be used to evaluate three dimensional circuit designs. The list below describes the performance of the circuit described with respect to several metrics.

In sum the designs described above include a number of parallel channels with one class of lines remaining fundamentally stationary and the other class of lines traveling through the channels. The designs are extensible with simple addressing and edge effects that can be handled by a variety of direction reversing techniques and loopback traces. The designs have a very high programmable crosspoint device density. The trace topology includes row vias are pillars and the row lines are short stubs while column lines travel through the circuit to encounter new row lines. These designs have row vias that can be fattened in one dimension without disrupting the approach. These principles provide a superior interconnection architecture which resolves edge effects and reduce connection complexity.

The preceding description has been presented only to illustrate and describe embodiments and examples of the principles described. This description is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit these principles to any precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching.

