---

title: Methods and compositions for articular repair
abstract: Disclosed herein are methods and compositions for producing articular repair materials and for repairing an articular surface. In particular, methods for providing articular repair systems. Also provided are articular surface repair systems designed to replace a selected area cartilage, for example, and surgical tools for repairing articular surfaces.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09055953&OS=09055953&RS=09055953
owner: ConforMIS, Inc.
number: 09055953
owner_city: Bedford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100511
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 12 317 472 entitled MCAR filed Dec. 22 2008 which in turn is a continuation of U.S. Ser. No. 10 305 652 entitled MCAR filed Nov. 27 2002 which in turn is a continuation in part of U.S. Ser. No. 10 160 667 entitled MCAR filed May 28 2002 which in turn claims the benefit of U.S. Ser. No. 60 293 488 entitled MICRS filed May 25 2001 U.S. Ser. No. 60 363 527 entitled NDCR filed Mar. 12 2002 and U.S. Ser. Nos. 60 380 695 and 60 380 692 entitled MACCR and MJR filed May 14 2002 all of which applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The present invention relates to orthopedic methods systems and prosthetic devices and more particularly relates to methods systems and devices for articular resurfacing.

There are various types of cartilage e.g. hyaline cartilage and fibrocartilage. Hyaline cartilage is found at the articular surfaces of bones e.g. in the joints and is responsible for providing the smooth gliding motion characteristic of moveable joints. Articular cartilage is firmly attached to the underlying bones and measures typically less than 5 mm in thickness in human joints with considerable variation depending on joint and site within the joint. In addition articular cartilage is aneural avascular and alymphatic. In adult humans this cartilage derives its nutrition by a double diffusion system through the synovial membrane and through the dense matrix of the cartilage to reach the chondrocyte the cells that are found in the connective tissue of cartilage.

Adult cartilage has a limited ability of repair thus damage to cartilage produced by disease such as rheumatoid and or osteoarthritis or trauma can lead to serious physical deformity and debilitation. Furthermore as human articular cartilage ages its tensile properties change. The superficial zone of the knee articular cartilage exhibits an increase in tensile strength up to the third decade of life after which it decreases markedly with age as detectable damage to type II collagen occurs at the articular surface. The deep zone cartilage also exhibits a progressive decrease in tensile strength with increasing age although collagen content does not appear to decrease. These observations indicate that there are changes in mechanical and hence structural organization of cartilage with aging that if sufficiently developed can predispose cartilage to traumatic damage.

Usually severe damage or loss of cartilage is treated by replacement of the joint with a prosthetic material for example silicone e.g. for cosmetic repairs or metal alloys. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 383 228 issued May 7 2002 U.S. Pat. No. 6 203 576 issued Mar. 20 2001 U.S. Pat. No. 6 126 690 issued Oct. 3 2000. Implantation of these prosthetic devices is usually associated with loss of underlying tissue and bone without recovery of the full function allowed by the original cartilage and with some devices serious long term complications associated with the loss of significant amount of tissue and bone can include infection osteolysis and also loosening of the implant.

Further joint arthroplasties are highly invasive and require surgical resection of the entire or the majority of the articular surface of one or more bones. With these procedures the marrow space is reamed in order to fit the stem of the prosthesis. The reaming results in a loss of the patient s bone stock.

Osteolysis will frequently lead to loosening of the prosthesis. The prosthesis will subsequently have to be replaced. Since the patient s bone stock is limited the number of possible replacement surgeries is also limited for joint arthroplasty. In short over the course of 15 to 20 years and in some cases shorter time periods the patients may run out of therapeutic options resulting in a very painful non functional joint.

The use of matrices tissue scaffolds or other carriers implanted with cells e.g. chrondrocytes chondrocyte progenitors stromal cells mesenchymal stem cells etc. has also been described as a potential treatment for cartilage repair. See also International Publications WO 99 51719 WO 01 91672 and WO 01 17463 U.S. Pat. No. 5 283 980 B1 issued Sep. 4 2001 U.S. Pat. No. 5 842 477 issued Dec. 1 1998 U.S. Pat. No. 5 769 899 issued Jun. 23 1998 U.S. Pat. No. 4 609 551 issued Sep. 2 1986 U.S. Pat. No. 5 041 138 issued Aug. 20 199 U.S. Pat. No. 5 197 985 issued Mar. 30 1993 U.S. Pat. No. 5 226 914 issued Jul. 13 1993 U.S. Pat. No. 6 328 765 issued Dec. 11 2001 U.S. Pat. No. 6 281 195 issued Aug. 28 2001 and U.S. Pat. No. 4 846 835 issued Jul. 11 1989. However clinical outcomes with biologic replacement materials such as allograft and autograft systems and tissue scaffolds have been uncertain since most of these materials cannot achieve a morphologic arrangement or structure similar to or identical to that of normal disease free human tissue. Moreover the mechanical durability of these biologic replacement materials is not certain.

Despite the large number of studies in the area of cartilage repair the integration of the cartilage replacement material with the surrounding cartilage of the patient has proven difficult. In particular integration can be extremely difficult due to differences in thickness and curvature between the surrounding cartilage and or the underlying subchondral bone and the cartilage replacement material.

Thus there remains a need for methods and compositions for joint repair including methods and compositions that facilitate the integration between the cartilage replacement system and the surrounding cartilage.

The present invention provides novel devices and methods for replacing a portion e.g. diseased area and or area slightly larger than the diseased area of a joint e.g. cartilage and or bone with a non pliable non liquid e.g. hard implant material where the implant achieves a near anatomic fit with the surrounding structures and tissues. In cases where the devices and or methods include an element associated with the underlying articular bone the invention also provides that the bone associated element achieves a near anatomic alignment with the subchondral bone. The invention also provides for the preparation of an implantation site with a single cut.

In one aspect the invention includes a method for providing articular replacement material the method comprising the step of producing articular replacement e.g. cartilage replacement material of selected dimensions e.g. size thickness and or curvature .

In another aspect the invention includes a method of making cartilage repair material the method comprising the steps of a measuring the dimensions e.g. thickness curvature and or size of the intended implantation site or the dimensions of the area surrounding the intended implantation site and b providing cartilage replacement material that conforms to the measurements obtained in step a . In certain aspects step a comprises measuring the thickness of the cartilage surrounding the intended implantation site and measuring the curvature of the cartilage surrounding the intended implantation site. In other embodiments step a comprises measuring the size of the intended implantation site and measuring the curvature of the cartilage surrounding the intended implantation site. In other embodiments step a comprises measuring the thickness of the cartilage surrounding the intended implantation site measuring the size of the intended implantation site and measuring the curvature of the cartilage surrounding the intended implantation site. In other embodiments step a comprises reconstructing the shape of healthy cartilage surface at the intended implantation site.

In any of the methods described herein one or more components of the articular replacement material e.g. the cartilage replacement material are non pliable non liquid solid or hard. The dimensions of the replacement material may be selected following intraoperative measurements for example measurements made using imaging techniques such as ultrasound MRI CT scan x ray imaging obtained with x ray dye and fluoroscopic imaging. A mechanical probe with or without imaging capabilities may also be used to selected dimensions for example an ultrasound probe a laser an optical probe and a deformable material.

In any of the methods described herein the replacement material may be selected for example from a pre existing library of repair systems grown from cells and or hardened from various materials. Thus the material can be produced pre or post operatively. Furthermore in any of the methods described herein the repair material may also be shaped e.g. manually automatically or by machine for example using mechanical abrasion laser ablation radiofrequency ablation cryoablation and or enzymatic digestion.

In any of the methods described herein the articular replacement material may comprise synthetic materials e.g. metals polymers alloys or combinations thereof or biological materials such as stem cells fetal cells or chondrocyte cells.

In another aspect the invention includes a method of repairing a cartilage in a subject the method of comprising the step of implanting cartilage repair material prepared according to any of the methods described herein.

In yet another aspect the invention provides a method of determining the curvature of an articular surface the method comprising the step of intraoperatively measuring the curvature of the articular surface using a mechanical probe. The articular surface may comprise cartilage and or subchondral bone. The mechanical probe with or without imaging capabilities may include for example an ultrasound probe a laser an optical probe and or a deformable material.

In a still further aspect the invention provides a method of producing an articular replacement material comprising the step of providing an articular replacement material that conforms to the measurements obtained by any of the methods of described herein.

In a still further aspect the invention includes a partial or full articular prosthesis comprising a first component comprising a cartilage replacement material and a second component comprising one or more metals wherein said second component has a curvature similar to subchondral bone wherein said prosthesis comprises less than about 80 of the articular surface. In certain embodiments the first and or second component comprises a non pliable material e.g. a metal a polymer a metal allow a solid biological material . Other materials that may be included in the first and or second components include polymers biological materials metals metal alloys or combinations thereof. Furthermore one or both components may be smooth or porous or porous coated . In certain embodiments the first component exhibits biomechanical properties e.g. elasticity resistance to axial loading or shear forces similar to articular cartilage. The first and or second component can be bioresorbable and in addition the first or second components may be adapted to receive injections.

In another aspect an articular prosthesis comprising an external surface located in the load bearing area of an articular surface wherein the dimensions of said external surface achieve a near anatomic fit with the adjacent cartilage is provided. The prosthesis of may comprise one or more metals or metal alloys.

In yet another aspect an articular repair system comprising a cartilage replacement material wherein said cartilage replacement material has a curvature similar to surrounding or adjacent cartilage and b at least one non biologic material wherein said articular surface repair system comprises a portion of the articular surface equal to smaller than or greater than the weight bearing surface is provided. In certain embodiments the cartilage replacement material is non pliable e.g. hard hydroxyapatite etc. . In certain embodiments the system exhibits biomechanical e.g. elasticity resistance to axial loading or shear forces and or biochemical properties similar to articular cartilage. The first and or second component can be bioresorbable and in addition the first or second components may be adapted to receive injections.

In a still further aspect of the invention an articular surface repair system comprising a first component comprising a cartilage replacement material wherein said first component has dimensions similar to that of adjacent or surrounding cartilage and a second component wherein said second component has a curvature similar to subchondral bone wherein said articular surface repair system comprises less than about 80 of the articular surface e.g. a single femoral condyle tibia etc. is provided. In certain embodiments the first component is non pliable e.g. hard hydroxyapatite etc. . In certain embodiments the system exhibits biomechanical e.g. elasticity resistance to axial loading or shear forces and or biochemical properties similar to articular cartilage. The first and or second component can be bioresorbable and in addition the first or second components may be adapted to receive injections. In certain embodiments the first component has a curvature and thickness similar to that of adjacent or surrounding cartilage. The thickness and or curvature may vary across the implant material.

In a still further embodiment a partial articular prosthesis comprising a a metal or metal alloy and b an external surface located in the load bearing area of an articular surface wherein the external surface designed to achieve a near anatomic fit with the adjacent cartilage is provided.

Any of the repair systems or prostheses described herein e.g. the external surface may comprise a polymeric material for example attached to said metal or metal alloy. Further any of the systems or prostheses described herein can be adapted to receive injections for example through an opening in the external surface of said cartilage replacement material e.g. an opening in the external surface terminates in a plurality of openings on the bone surface . Bone cement therapeutics and or other bioactive substances may be injected through the opening s . In certain embodiments bone cement is injected under pressure in order to achieve permeation of portions of the marrow space with bone cement. In addition any of the repair systems or prostheses described herein may be anchored in bone marrow or in the subchondral bone itself. One or more anchoring extensions e.g. pegs etc. may extend through the bone and or bone marrow.

In any of the embodiments and aspects described herein the joint can be a knee shoulder hip vertebrae elbow ankle etc.

In another aspect a method of designing an articular implant comprising the steps of obtaining an image of a joint wherein the image includes both normal cartilage and diseased cartilage reconstructing dimensions of the diseased cartilage surface to correspond to normal cartilage and designing the articular implant to match the dimensions of the reconstructed diseased cartilage surface or to match an area slightly greater than the diseased cartilage surface is provided. The image can be for example MRI CT ultrasound digital tomosynthesis and or optical coherence tomography images. In certain embodiments reconstruction is performed by obtaining a parametric surface that follows the contour of the normal cartilage. The parametric surface can include control points that extend the contour of the normal cartilage to the diseased cartilage and or a B spline surface. In other embodiments the reconstruction is performed by obtaining a binary image of cartilage by extracting cartilage from the image wherein diseased cartilage appears as indentations in the binary image and performing a morphological closing operation e.g. performed in two or three dimensions using a structuring element and or a dilation operation followed by an erosion operation to determine the shape of an implant to fill the areas of diseased cartilage.

In yet another aspect described herein are systems for evaluating the fit of an articular repair system into a joint the systems comprising one or more computing means capable of superimposing a three dimensional e.g. three dimensional representations of at least one articular structure and of the articular repair system or a two dimensional cross sectional image e.g. cross sectional images reconstructed in multiple planes of a joint and an image of an articular repair system to determine the fit of the articular repair system. The computing means may be capable of merging the images of the joint and the articular repair system into common coordinate system capable of selecting an articular repair system having the best fit capable of rotating or moving the images with respect to each other and or capable highlighting areas of poor alignment between the articular repair system and the surrounding articular surfaces. The three dimensional representations may be generated using a parametric surface representation.

In yet another aspect surgical tool for preparing a joint to receive an implant are described for example a tool comprising one or more surfaces or members that conform to the shape of the articular surfaces of the joint e.g. a femoral condyle and or tibial plateau of a knee joint . In certain embodiments the tool comprises lucite and or silastic. The tool can be re useable or single use. In certain embodiments the tool comprises an array of adjustable closely spaced pins. In any embodiments described herein the surgical tool may further comprising an aperture therein for example one or more apertures having dimensions e.g. diameter depth etc. smaller or equal to one or more dimensions of the implant and or one or more apertures adapted to receive one or more injectables. Any of the tools described herein may further include one or more curable hardening materials or compositions for example that are injected through one or more apertures in the tool and which solidify to form an impression of the articular surface.

In still another aspect method of evaluating the fit of an articular repair system into a joint is described herein the method comprising obtaining one or more three dimensional images e.g. three dimensional representations of at least one articular structure and of the articular repair system or two dimensional cross sectional images e.g. cross sectional images reconstructed in multiple planes of a joint wherein the joint includes at least one defect or diseased area obtaining one or more images of one or more articular repair systems designed to repair the defect or diseased area and evaluating the images to determine the articular repair system that best fits the defect e.g. by superimposing the images to determine the fit of the articular repair system into the joint . In certain embodiments the images of the joint and the articular repair system are merged into common coordinate system. The three dimensional representations may be generated using a parametric surface representation. In any of these methods the evaluation may be performed by manual visual inspection and or by computer e.g. automated . The images may be obtained for example using a C arm system and or radiographic contrast.

In yet another aspect described herein is a method of placing an implant into an articular surface having a defect or diseased area the method comprising the step of imaging the joint using a C arm system during placement of the implant thereby accurately placing the implant into a defect or diseased area.

These and other embodiments of the subject invention will readily occur to those of skill in the art in light of the disclosure herein.

The current invention provides for methods and devices for integration of cartilage replacement or regenerating materials.

Before describing the present invention in detail it is to be understood that this invention is not limited to particular formulations or process parameters as such may of course vary. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments of the invention only and is not intended to be limiting.

The practice of the present invention employs unless otherwise indicated conventional methods of x ray imaging and processing x ray tomosynthesis ultrasound including A scan B scan and C scan computed tomography CT scan magnetic resonance imaging MRI optical coherence tomography single photon emission tomography SPECT and positron emission tomography PET within the skill of the art. Such techniques are explained fully in the literature. See e.g. X Ray Structure Determination A Practical Guide 2nd Edition editors Stout and Jensen 1989 John Wiley Sons publisher Body CT A Practical Approach editor Slone 1999 McGraw Hill publisher X ray Diagnosis A Physician s Approach editor Lam 1998 Springer Verlag publisher and Dental Radiology Understanding the X Ray Image editor Laetitia Brocklebank 1997 Oxford University Press publisher.

All publications patents and patent applications cited herein whether above or below are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

It must be noted that as used in this specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the content clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to an implantation site includes a one or more such sites.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which the invention pertains. Although any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice for testing of the present invention the preferred materials and methods are described herein.

The term arthritis refers to a group of conditions characterized by progressive deterioration of joints. Thus the term encompasses a group of different diseases including but not limited to osteoarthritis OA rheumatoid arthritis seronegative spondyloarthropathies and posttraumatic joint deformity.

The term articular refers to any joint. Thus articular cartilage refers to cartilage in a joint such as a knee ankle hip etc. The term articular surface refers to a surface of an articulating bone that is covered by cartilage. For example in a knee joint several different articular surfaces are present e.g. in the patella the medial femoral condyle the lateral femoral condyle the medial tibial plateau and the lateral tibial plateau.

The term weight bearing surface refers to the contact area between two opposing articular surfaces during activities of normal daily living e.g. normal gait. The weight bearing surface can be determined by any suitable means for example based on data published in the literature e.g. anatomic studies. The weight bearing surface can be determined by superimposing predetermined angles of flexion extension translation tilting and rotation on anatomic models e.g. of the femur and the tibia. Anatomic models can be generated with use of an imaging test. Biomotion analysis for example using optoelectronic registration means see also International Publication WO 02 22014 can also be used to define the weight bearing surface. Moreover kinematic imaging tests such as fluoroscopy or MRI of joint motion can be used to estimate the weight bearing surface for different physical activities. Different modalities for determining the weight bearing area such as 2D x ray fluoroscopy and MRI can be merged in order to estimate the weight bearing area. The weight bearing area can be determined using any current and future optical electronic imaging or other means of assessing joint motion.

The term cartilage or cartilage tissue as used herein is generally recognized in the art and refers to a specialized type of dense connective tissue comprising cells embedded in an extracellular matrix ECM see for example Cormack 1987 Ham s Histology 9th Ed. J. B. Lippincott Co. pp. 266 272 . The biochemical composition of cartilage differs according to type. Several types of cartilage are recognized in the art including for example hyaline cartilage such as that found within the joints fibrous cartilage such as that found within the meniscus and costal regions and elastic cartilage. Hyaline cartilage for example comprises chondrocytes surrounded by a dense ECM consisting of collagen proteoglycans and water. Fibrocartilage can form in areas of hyaline cartilage for example after an injury or more typically after certain types of surgery. The production of any type of cartilage is intended to fall within the scope of the invention.

Furthermore although described primarily in relation to methods for use in humans the invention may also be practiced so as repair cartilage tissue in any mammal in need thereof including horses dogs cats sheep pigs among others. The treatment of such animals is intended to fall within the scope of the invention.

The terms articular repair system and articular surface repair system include any system including for example compositions devices and techniques to repair to replace or to regenerate a portion of a joint or an entire joint. The term encompasses systems that repair articular cartilage articular bone or both bone and cartilage. Articular surface repair systems may also include a meniscal repair system e.g. meniscal repair system can be composed of a biologic or non biologic material for example a meniscal repair system having biomechanical and or biochemical properties similar to that of healthy menisci. See for example U.S. Pat. Publication No. 2002 0 022 884A1. The meniscal repair system can be surgically or arthroscopically attached to the joint capsule or one or more ligaments. Non limiting examples of repair systems include metal or plastic implants polymer implants combinations thereof injectable repair materials for example materials that are self hardening autologous chondrocyte transplantation osteochondral allografting osteochondral autografting tibial corticotomy femoral and or tibial osteotomy. Repair systems also include treatment with cartilage or bone tissue grown ex vivo as well as in vivo stem cells cartilage material grown with use of stem cells fetal cells or immature or mature cartilage cells an artificial non human material an agent that stimulates repair of diseased cartilage tissue an agent that stimulates growth of cells an agent that protects diseased cartilage tissue and that protects adjacent normal cartilage tissue. Articular repair systems include also treatment with a cartilage tissue transplant a cartilage tissue graft a cartilage tissue implant a cartilage tissue scaffold or any other cartilage tissue replacement or regenerating material. Articular repair systems may include also treatment with a bone tissue transplant a bone tissue graft a bone tissue implant a bone tissue scaffold or any other bone tissue replacement or regenerating material. Articular repair systems may also include treatment with a meniscus tissue transplant a meniscus tissue graft a meniscus tissue implant a meniscus tissue scaffold or any other meniscus tissue replacement or regenerating material. Articular repair systems include also surgical tools that facilitate the surgical procedure required for articular repair for example tools that prepare the area of diseased cartilage tissue and or subchondral bone for receiving for example a cartilage tissue replacement or regenerating material. The term non pliable refers to material that cannot be significantly bent but may retain elasticity.

The terms replacement material or regenerating material include a broad range of natural and or synthetic materials including metals metal alloys polymers injectables combinations thereof used in the methods described herein for example cartilage or bone tissue grown ex vivo or in vivo stem cells cartilage material grown from stem cells stem cells fetal cell immature or mature cartilage cells an agent that stimulates growth of cells an artificial non human material a tissue transplant a tissue graft a tissue implant a tissue scaffold or a tissue regenerating material. The term includes biological materials isolated from various sources e.g. cells as well as modified e.g. genetically modified materials and or combinations of isolated and modified materials.

The term imaging test includes but is not limited to x ray based techniques such as conventional film based x ray films digital x ray images single and dual x ray absorptiometry radiographic absorptiometry fluoroscopic imaging for example with C arm devices including C arm devices with tomographic or cross sectional imaging capability digital x ray tomosynthesis x ray imaging including digital x ray tomosynthesis with use of x ray contrast agents for example after intra articular injection ultrasound including broadband ultrasound attenuation measurement and speed of sound measurements A scan B scan and C scan computed tomography nuclear scintigraphy SPECT positron emission tomography optical coherence tomography and MRI. One or more of these imaging tests may be used in the methods described herein for example in order to obtain certain morphological information about one or several tissues such as bone including bone mineral density and curvature of the subchondral bone cartilage including biochemical composition of cartilage cartilage thickness cartilage volume cartilage curvature size of an area of diseased cartilage severity of cartilage disease or cartilage loss marrow including marrow composition synovium including synovial inflammation lean and fatty tissue and thickness dimensions and volume of soft and hard tissues. The imaging test can be performed with use of a contrast agent such as Gd DTPA in the case of MRI.

The term A scan refers to an ultrasonic technique where an ultrasonic source transmits an ultrasonic wave into an object such as patient s body and the amplitude of the returning echoes signals are recorded as a function of time. Only structures that lie along the direction of propagation are interrogated. As echoes return from interfaces within the object or tissue the transducer crystal produces a voltage that is proportional to the echo intensity. The sequence of signal acquisition and processing of the A scan data in a modern ultrasonic instrument usually occurs in six major steps 

 1 Detection of the echo signal occurs via mechanical deformation of the piezoelectric crystal and is converted to an electric signal having a small voltage.

 2 Preamplification of the electronic signal from the crystal into a more useful range of voltages is usually necessary to ensure appropriate signal processing.

 3 Time Gain Compensation compensates for the attenuation of the ultrasonic signal with time which arises from travel distance. Time gain compensation may be user adjustable and may be changed to meet the needs of the specific application. Usually the ideal time gain compensation curve corrects the signal for the depth of the reflective boundary. Time gain compensation works by increasing the amplification factor of the signal as a function of time after the ultrasonic pulse has been emitted. Thus reflective boundaries having equal abilities to reflect ultrasonic waves will have equal ultrasonic signals regardless of the depth of the boundary.

 4 Compression of the time compensated signal can be accomplished using logarithmic amplification to reduce the large dynamic range range of smallest to largest signals of the echo amplitudes. Small signals are made larger and large signals are made smaller. This step provides a convenient scale for display of the amplitude variations on the limited gray scale range of a monitor.

 5 Rectification demodulation and envelope detection of the high frequency electronic signal permits the sampling and digitization of the echo amplitude free of variations induced by the sinusoidal nature of the waveform.

 6 Rejection level adjustment sets the threshold of signal amplitudes that are permitted to enter a data storage processing or display system. Rejection of lower signal amplitudes reduces noise levels from scattered ultrasonic signals.

The term B scan refers to an ultrasonic technique where the amplitude of the detected returning echo is recorded as a function of the transmission time the relative location of the detector in the probe and the signal amplitude. This is often represented by the brightness of a visual element such as a pixel in a two dimensional image. The position of the pixel along the y axis represents the depth i.e. half the time for the echo to return to the transducer for one half of the distance traveled . The position along the x axis represents the location of the returning echoes relative to the long axis of the transducer i.e. the location of the pixel either in a superoinferior or mediolateral direction or a combination of both. The display of multiple adjacent scan lines creates a composite two dimensional image that portrays the general contour of internal organs.

The term C scan refers to an ultrasonic technique where additional gating electronics are incorporated into a B scan to eliminate interference from underlying or overlying structures by scanning at a constant depth. An interface reflects part of the ultrasonic beam energy. All interfaces along the scan line may contribute to the measurement. The gating electronics of the C mode rejects all returning echoes except those received during a specified time interval. Thus only scan data obtained from a specific depth range are recorded. Induced signals outside the allowed period are not amplified and thus are not processed and displayed. C mode like methods are also described herein for A scan techniques and devices in order to reduce the probe skin interface reflection. The term repair is used in a broad sense to refer to one or more repairs to damaged joints e.g. cartilage or bone or to replacement of one or more components or regions of the joint. Thus the term encompasses both repair e.g. one or more portions of a cartilage and or layers of cartilage or bone and replacement e.g. of an entire cartilage .

The term C arm refers to a fluoroscopic x ray system mounted on a C shaped arch that allows it to rotate and or tilt passively or actively around the object to be imaged. The x ray beam that is transmitted by the x ray source through the object and received by the detector is displayed on a screen. C arm typically includes systems that have cross sectional imaging capability for example by using rotation of the x ray tube and detector to reconstruct a cross sectional image similar to a CT rather than a conventional projectional x ray only.

The terms hardening solidifying and curable refers to any liquid or sufficiently flowable material that forms a solid or gel either over time upon contact with another substance and or upon application of energy.

The present invention provides methods and compositions for repairing joints particularly for repairing articular cartilage and for facilitating the integration of a wide variety of cartilage repair materials into a subject. Among other things the techniques described herein allow for the customization of cartilage repair material to suit a particular subject for example in terms of size cartilage thickness and or curvature. When the shape e.g. size thickness and or curvature of the articular cartilage surface is an exact or near anatomic fit with the non damaged cartilage or with the subject s original cartilage the success of repair is enhanced. The repair material may be shaped prior to implantation and such shaping can be based for example on electronic images that provide information regarding curvature or thickness of any normal cartilage surrounding the defect and or on curvature of the bone underlying the defect. Thus the current invention provides among other things for minimally invasive methods for partial joint replacement. The methods will require only minimal or in some instances no loss in bone stock. Additionally unlike with current techniques the methods described herein will help to restore the integrity of the articular surface by achieving an exact or near anatomic match between the implant and the surrounding or adjacent cartilage and or subchondral bone.

Advantages of the present invention can include but are not limited to i customization of joint repair thereby enhancing the efficacy and comfort level for the patient following the repair procedure ii eliminating the need for a surgeon to measure the defect to be repaired intraoperatively in some embodiments iii eliminating the need for a surgeon to shape the material during the implantation procedure iv providing methods of evaluating curvature of the repair material based on bone or tissue images or based on intraoperative probing techniques v providing methods of repairing joints with only minimal or in some instances no loss in bone stock and vi improving postoperative joint congruity.

Thus the methods described herein allow for the design and use of joint repair material that more precisely fits the defect e.g. site of implantation and accordingly provides improved repair of the joint.

The methods and compositions described herein may be used to treat defects resulting from disease of the cartilage e.g. osteoarthritis bone damage cartilage damage trauma and or degeneration due to overuse or age. The invention allows among other things a health practitioner to evaluate and treat such defects. The size volume and shape of the area of interest may include only the region of cartilage that has the defect but preferably will also include contiguous parts of the cartilage surrounding the cartilage defect.

Size curvature and or thickness measurements can be obtained using any suitable techniques for example in one direction two directions and or in three dimensions for example using suitable mechanical means laser devices molds materials applied to the articular surface that harden and memorize the surface contour and or one or more imaging techniques. Measurements may be obtained non invasively and or intraoperatively e.g. using a probe or other surgical device .

Non limiting examples of imaging techniques suitable for measuring thickness and or curvature e.g. of cartilage and or bone or size of areas of diseased cartilage or cartilage loss include the use of x rays magnetic resonance imaging MRI computed tomography scanning CT also known as computerized axial tomography or CAT optical coherence tomography SPECT PET ultrasound imaging techniques and optical imaging techniques. See also International Patent Publication WO 02 22014 U.S. Pat. No. 6 373 250 and Vandeberg et al. 2002 Radiology 222 430 436 .

In certain embodiments CT or MRI is used to assess tissue bone cartilage and any defects therein for example cartilage lesions or areas of diseased cartilage to obtain information on subchondral bone or cartilage degeneration and to provide morphologic or biochemical or biomechanical information about the area of damage. Specifically changes such as fissuring partial or full thickness cartilage loss and signal changes within residual cartilage can be detected using one or more of these methods. For discussions of the basic NMR principles and techniques see MRI Basic Principles and Applications Second Edition Mark A. Brown and Richard C. Semelka Wiley Liss Inc. 1999 . For a discussion of MRI including conventional T1 and T2 weighted spin echo imaging gradient recalled echo GRE imaging magnetization transfer contrast MTC imaging fast spin echo FSE imaging contrast enhanced imaging rapid acquisition relaxation enhancement RARE imaging gradient echo acquisition in the steady state GRASS and driven equilibrium Fourier transform DEFT imaging to obtain information on cartilage see WO 02 22014. Thus in preferred embodiments the measurements are three dimensional images obtained as described in WO 02 22014. Three dimensional internal images or maps of the cartilage alone or in combination with a movement pattern of the joint can be obtained. Three dimensional internal images can include information on biochemical composition of the articular cartilage. In addition imaging techniques can be compared over time for example to provide up to date information on the shape and type of repair material needed.

Any of the imaging devices described herein may also be used intra operatively see also below for example using a hand held ultrasound and or optical probe to image the articular surface intra operatively.

Alternatively or in addition to non invasive imaging techniques measurements of the size of an area of diseased cartilage or an area of cartilage loss measurements of cartilage thickness and or curvature of cartilage or bone can be obtained intraoperatively during arthroscopy or open arthrotomy. Intraoperative measurements may or may not involve actual contact with one or more areas of the articular surfaces.

Devices to obtain intraoperative measurements of cartilage and to generate a topographical map of the surface include but are not limited to Placido disks and laser interferometers and or deformable materials. See for example U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 382 028 6 057 927 5 523 843 5 847 804 and 5 684 562 . For example a Placido disk a concentric array that projects well defined circles of light of varying radii generated either with laser or white light transported via optical fiber can be attached to the end of an endoscopic device or to any probe for example a hand held probe so that the circles of light are projected onto the cartilage surface. One or more imaging cameras can be used e.g. attached to the device to capture the reflection of the circles. Mathematical analysis is used to determine the surface curvature. The curvature can then be visualized on a monitor as a color coded topographical map of the cartilage surface. Additionally a mathematical model of the topographical map can be used to determine the ideal surface topography to replace any cartilage defects in the area analyzed. This computed ideal surface can then also be visualized on the monitor and is used to select the curvature of the replacement material or regenerating material.

Similarly a laser interferometer can also be attached to the end of an endoscopic device. In addition a small sensor may be attached to the device in order to determine the cartilage surface curvature using phase shift interferometry producing a fringe pattern analysis phase map wave front visualization of the cartilage surface. The curvature can then be visualized on a monitor as a color coded topographical map of the cartilage surface. Additionally a mathematical model of the topographical map can be used to determine the ideal surface topography to replace any cartilage defects in the area analyzed. This computed ideal surface can then also be visualized on the monitor and can be used to select the curvature of the replacement cartilage.

One skilled in the art will readily recognize other techniques for optical measurements of the cartilage surface curvature.

Mechanical devices e.g. probes may also be used for intraoperative measurements for example deformable materials such as gels molds any hardening materials e.g. materials that remain deformable until they are heated cooled or otherwise manipulated . See e.g. WO 02 34310. For example a deformable gel can be applied to a femoral condyle. The side of the gel pointing towards the condyle will yield a negative impression of the surface contour of the condyle. Said negative impression can be used to determine the size of a defect the depth of a defect and the curvature of the articular surface in and adjacent to a defect. This information can be used to select a therapy e.g. an articular surface repair system. In another example a hardening material can be applied to an articular surface e.g. a femoral condyle or a tibial plateau. Said hardening material will remain on the articular surface until hardening has occurred. The hardening material will then be removed from the articular surface. The side of the hardening material pointing towards the articular surface will yield a negative impression of the articular surface. The negative impression can be used to determine the size of a defect the depth of a defect and the curvature of the articular surface in and adjacent to a defect. This information can be used to select a therapy e.g. an articular surface repair system.

In certain embodiments the deformable material comprises a plurality of individually moveable mechanical elements. When pressed against the surface of interest each element may be pushed in the opposing direction and the extent to which it is pushed deformed will correspond to the curvature of the surface of interest. The device may include a brake mechanism so that the elements are maintained in the position that mirrors the surface of the cartilage and or bone. The device can then be removed from the patient and analyzed for curvature. Alternatively each individual moveable element may include markers indicating the amount and or degree they are deformed at a given spot. A camera can be used to intra operatively image the device and the image can be saved and analyzed for curvature information. Suitable markers include but are not limited to actual linear measurements metric or imperial different colors corresponding to different amounts of deformation and or different shades or hues of the same color s .

Other devices to measure cartilage and subchondral bone intraoperatively include for example ultrasound probes. An ultrasound probe preferably handheld can be applied to the cartilage and the curvature of the cartilage and or the subchondral bone can be measured. Moreover the size of a cartilage defect can be assessed and the thickness of the articular cartilage can be determined. Such ultrasound measurements can be obtained in A mode B mode or C mode. If A mode measurements are obtained an operator will typically repeat the measurements with several different probe orientations e.g. mediolateral and anteroposterior in order to derive a three dimensional assessment of size curvature and thickness.

One skilled in the art will easily recognize that different probe designs are possible using said optical laser interferometry mechanical and ultrasound probes. The probes are preferably handheld. In certain embodiments the probes or at least a portion of the probe typically the portion that is in contact with the tissue will be sterile. Sterility can be achieved with use of sterile covers for example similar to those disclosed in WO9908598A1.

Analysis on the curvature of the articular cartilage or subchondral bone using imaging tests and or intraoperative measurements can be used to determine the size of an area of diseased cartilage or cartilage loss. For example the curvature can change abruptly in areas of cartilage loss. Such abrupt or sudden changes in curvature can be used to detect the boundaries of diseased cartilage or cartilage defects.

Using information on thickness and curvature of the cartilage a physical model of the surfaces of the articular cartilage and of the underlying bone can be created. This physical model can be representative of a limited area within the joint or it can encompass the entire joint. For example in the knee joint the physical model can encompass only the medial or lateral femoral condyle both femoral condyles and the notch region the medial tibial plateau the lateral tibial plateau the entire tibial plateau the medial patella the lateral patella the entire patella or the entire joint. The location of a diseased area of cartilage can be determined for example using a 3D coordinate system or a 3D Euclidian distance as described in WO 02 22014.

In this way the size of the defect to be repaired can be determined. As will be apparent some but not all defects will include less than the entire cartilage. Thus in one embodiment of the invention the thickness of the normal or only mildly diseased cartilage surrounding one or more cartilage defects is measured. This thickness measurement can be obtained at a single point or preferably at multiple points for example 2 point 4 6 points 7 10 points more than 10 points or over the length of the entire remaining cartilage. Furthermore once the size of the defect is determined an appropriate therapy e.g. articular repair system can be selected such that as much as possible of the healthy surrounding tissue is preserved.

In other embodiments the curvature of the articular surface can be measured to design and or shape the repair material. Further both the thickness of the remaining cartilage and the curvature of the articular surface can be measured to design and or shape the repair material. Alternatively the curvature of the subchondral bone can be measured and the resultant measurement s can be used to either select or shape a cartilage replacement material.

A wide variety of materials find use in the practice of the present invention including but not limited to plastics metals ceramics biological materials e.g. collagen or other extracellular matrix materials hydroxyapatite cells e.g. stem cells chondrocyte cells or the like or combinations thereof. Based on the information e.g. measurements obtained regarding the defect and the articular surface and or the subchondral bone a repair material can be formed or selected. Further using one or more of these techniques described herein a cartilage replacement or regenerating material having a curvature that will fit into a particular cartilage defect will follow the contour and shape of the articular surface and will match the thickness of the surrounding cartilage. The repair material may include any combination of materials and preferably includes at least one non pliable hard material.

Currently joint repair systems often employ metal and or polymeric materials including for example prosthesis which are anchored into the underlying bone e.g. a femur in the case of a knee prosthesis . See e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 203 576 and 6 322 588 and references cited therein. A wide variety of metals may find use in the practice of the present invention and may be selected based on any criteria for example based on resiliency to impart a desired degree of rigidity. Non limiting examples of suitable metals include silver gold platinum palladium iridium copper tin lead antimony bismuth zinc titanium cobalt stainless steel nickel iron alloys cobalt alloys such as Elgiloy a cobalt chromium nickel alloy and MP35N a nickel cobalt chromium molybdenum alloy and Nitinol a nickel titanium alloy aluminum manganese iron tantalum other metals that can slowly form polyvalent metal ions for example to inhibit calcification of implanted substrates in contact with a patient s bodily fluids or tissues and combinations thereof.

Suitable synthetic polymers include without limitation polyamides e.g. nylon polyesters polystyrenes polyacrylates vinyl polymers e.g. polyethylene polytetrafluoroethylene polypropylene and polyvinyl chloride polycarbonates polyurethanes poly dimethyl siloxanes cellulose acetates polymethyl methacrylates polyether ether ketones ethylene vinyl acetates polysulfones nitrocelluloses similar copolymers and mixtures thereof. Bioresorbable synthetic polymers can also be used such as dextran hydroxyethyl starch derivatives of gelatin polyvinylpyrrolidone polyvinyl alcohol poly N 2 hydroxypropyl methacrylamide poly hydroxy acids poly epsilon caprolactone polylactic acid polyglycolic acid poly dimethyl glycolic acid poly hydroxy butyrate and similar copolymers may also be used.

The polymers can be prepared by any of a variety of approaches including conventional polymer processing methods. Preferred approaches include for example injection molding which is suitable for the production of polymer components with significant structural features and rapid prototyping approaches such as reaction injection molding and stereo lithography. The substrate can be textured or made porous by either physical abrasion or chemical alteration to facilitate incorporation of the metal coating.

More than one metal and or polymer may be used in combination with each other. For example one or more metal containing substrates may be coated with polymers in one or more regions or alternatively one or more polymer containing substrate may be coated in one or more regions with one or more metals.

The system or prosthesis can be porous or porous coated. The porous surface components can be made of various materials including metals ceramics and polymers. These surface components can in turn be secured by various means to a multitude of structural cores formed of various metals. Suitable porous coatings include but are not limited to metal ceramic polymeric e.g. biologically neutral elastomers such as silicone rubber polyethylene terephthalate and or combinations thereof or combinations thereof. See e.g. Hahn U.S. Pat. No. 3 605 123. Tronzo U.S. Pat. No. 3 808 606 and Tronzo U.S. Pat. No. 3 843 975 Smith U.S. Pat. No. 3 314 420 Scharbach U.S. Pat. No. 3 987 499 and German Offenlegungsschrift 2 306 552. There may be more than one coating layer and the layers may have the same or different porosities. See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 3 938 198.

The coating may be applied by surrounding a core with powdered polymer and heating until cured to form a coating with an internal network of interconnected pores. The tortuosity of the pores e.g. a measure of length to diameter of the paths through the pores may be important in evaluating the probable success of such a coating in use on a prosthetic device. See also Morris U.S. Pat. No. 4 213 816. The porous coating may be applied in the form of a powder and the article as a whole subjected to an elevated temperature that bonds the powder to the substrate. Selection of suitable polymers and or powder coatings may be determined in view of the teachings and references cited herein for example based on the melt index of each.

Repair materials may also include one or more biological material either alone or in combination with non biological materials. For example any base material can be designed or shaped and suitable cartilage replacement or regenerating material s such as fetal cartilage cells can be applied to be the base. The cells can be then be grown in conjunction with the base until the thickness and or curvature of the cartilage surrounding the cartilage defect has been reached. Conditions for growing cells e.g. chondrocytes on various substrates in culture ex vivo and in vivo are described for example in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 478 739 5 842 477 6 283 980 and 6 365 405. Non limiting examples of suitable substrates include plastic tissue scaffold a bone replacement material e.g. a hydroxyapatite a bioresorbable material or any other material suitable for growing a cartilage replacement or regenerating material on it.

Biological polymers can be naturally occurring or produced in vitro by fermentation and the like. Suitable biological polymers include without limitation collagen elastin silk keratin gelatin polyamino acids cat gut sutures polysaccharides e.g. cellulose and starch and mixtures thereof. Biological polymers may be bioresorbable.

Biological materials used in the methods described herein can be autografts from the same subject allografts from another individual of the same species and or xenografts from another species . See also International Patent Publications WO 02 22014 and WO 97 27885. In certain embodiments autologous materials are preferred as they may carry a reduced risk of immunological complications to the host including re absorption of the materials inflammation and or scarring of the tissues surrounding the implant site.

In one embodiment of the invention a probe is used to harvest tissue from a donor site and to prepare a recipient site. The donor site can be located in a xenograft an allograft or an autograft. The probe is used to achieve a good anatomic match between the donor tissue sample and the recipient site. The probe is specifically designed to achieve a seamless or near seamless match between the donor tissue sample and the recipient site. The probe can for example be cylindrical. The distal end of the probe is typically sharp in order to facilitate tissue penetration. Additionally the distal end of the probe is typically hollow in order to accept the tissue. The probe can have an edge at a defined distance from its distal end e.g. at 1 cm distance from the distal end and the edge can be used to achieve a defined depth of tissue penetration for harvesting. The edge can be external or can be inside the hollow portion of the probe. For example an orthopedic surgeon can take the probe and advance it with physical pressure into the cartilage the subchondral bone and the underlying marrow in the case of a joint such as a knee joint. The surgeon can advance the probe until the external or internal edge reaches the cartilage surface. At that point the edge will prevent further tissue penetration thereby achieving a constant and reproducible tissue penetration. The distal end of the probe can include a blade or saw like structure or tissue cutting mechanism. For example the distal end of the probe can include an iris like mechanism consisting of several small blades. The at least one or more blades can be moved using a manual motorized or electrical mechanism thereby cutting through the tissue and separating the tissue sample from the underlying tissue. Typically this will be repeated in the donor and the recipient. In the case of an iris shaped blade mechanism the individual blades can be moved so as to close the iris thereby separating the tissue sample from the donor site.

In another embodiment of the invention a laser device or a radiofrequency device can be integrated inside the distal end of the probe. The laser device or the radiofrequency device can be used to cut through the tissue and to separate the tissue sample from the underlying tissue.

In one embodiment of the invention the same probe can be used in the donor and in the recipient. In another embodiment similarly shaped probes of slightly different physical dimensions can be used. For example the probe used in the recipient can be slightly smaller than that used in the donor thereby achieving a tight fit between the tissue sample or tissue transplant and the recipient site. The probe used in the recipient can also be slightly shorter than that used in the donor thereby correcting for any tissue lost during the separation or cutting of the tissue sample from the underlying tissue in the donor material.

Any biological repair material may be sterilized to inactivate biological contaminants such as bacteria viruses yeasts molds mycoplasmas and parasites. Sterilization may be performed using any suitable technique for example radiation such as gamma radiation.

Any of the biological material described herein may be harvested with use of a robotic device. The robotic device can use information from an electronic image for tissue harvesting.

In certain embodiments the cartilage replacement material has a particular biochemical composition. For instance the biochemical composition of the cartilage surrounding a defect can be assessed by taking tissue samples and chemical analysis or by imaging techniques. For example WO 02 22014 describes the use of gadolinium for imaging of articular cartilage to monitor glycosaminoglycan content within the cartilage. The cartilage replacement or regenerating material can then be made or cultured in a manner to achieve a biochemical composition similar to that of the cartilage surrounding the implantation site. The culture conditions used to achieve the desired biochemical compositions can include for example varying concentrations biochemical composition of said cartilage replacement or regenerating material can for example be influenced by controlling concentrations and exposure times of certain nutrients and growth factors.

The articular repair system may include one or more components. Non limiting examples of one component systems include a plastic a polymer a metal a metal alloy a biologic material or combinations thereof. In certain embodiments the surface of the repair system facing the underlying bone is smooth. In other embodiments the surface of the repair system facing the underlying bone is porous or porous coated. In another aspect the surface of the repair system facing the underlying bone is designed with one or more grooves for example to facilitate the in growth of the surrounding tissue. The external surface of the device can have a step like design which can be advantageous for altering biomechanical stresses. Optionally flanges can also be added at one or more positions on the device e.g. to prevent the repair system from rotating to control toggle and or prevent settling into the marrow cavity . The flanges can be part of a conical or a cylindrical design. A portion or all of the repair system facing the underlying bone can also be flat which may help to control depth of the implant and to prevent toggle. See also and .

Non limiting examples of multiple component systems include combinations of metal plastic metal alloys and one or more biological materials. One or more components of the articular surface repair system can be composed of a biologic material e.g. a tissue scaffold with cells such as cartilage cells or stem cells alone or seeded within a substrate such as a bioresorable material or a tissue scaffold allograft autograft or combinations thereof and or a non biological material e.g. polyethylene or a chromium alloy such as chromium cobalt .

Thus the repair system can include one or more areas of a single material or a combination of materials for example the articular surface repair system can have a superficial and a deep component. The superficial component is typically designed to have size thickness and curvature similar to that of the cartilage tissue lost while the deep component is typically designed to have a curvature similar to the subchondral bone. In addition the superficial component can have biomechanical properties similar to articular cartilage including but not limited to similar elasticity and resistance to axial loading or shear forces. The superficial and the deep component can consist of two different metals or metal alloys. One or more components of the system e.g. the deep portion can be composed of a biologic material including but not limited to bone or a non biologic material including but not limited to hydroxyapatite tantalum a chromium alloy chromium cobalt or other metal alloys.

One or more regions of the articular surface repair system e.g. the outer margin of the superficial portion and or the deep portion can be bioresorbable for example to allow the interface between the articular surface repair system and the patient s normal cartilage over time to be filled in with hyaline or fibrocartilage. Similarly one or more regions e.g. the outer margin of the superficial portion of the articular surface repair system and or the deep portion can be porous. The degree of porosity can change throughout the porous region linearly or non linearly for where the degree of porosity will typically decrease towards the center of the articular surface repair system. The pores can be designed for in growth of cartilage cells cartilage matrix and connective tissue thereby achieving a smooth interface between the articular surface repair system and the surrounding cartilage.

The repair system e.g. the deep component in multiple component systems can be attached to the patient s bone with use of a cement like material such as methylmethacrylate injectable hydroxy or calcium apatite materials and the like.

In certain embodiments one or more portions of the articular surface repair system can be pliable or liquid or deformable at the time of implantation and can harden later. Hardening can occur within 1 second to 2 hours or any time period therebetween preferably with in 1 second to 30 minutes or any time period therebetween more preferably between 1 second and 10 minutes or any time period therebetween .

One or more components of the articular surface repair system can be adapted to receive injections. For example the external surface of the articular surface repair system can have one or more openings therein. The openings can be sized so as to receive screws tubing needles or other devices which can be inserted and advanced to the desired depth for example through the articular surface repair system into the marrow space. Injectables such as methylmethacrylate and injectable hydroxy or calcium apatite materials can then be introduced through the opening or tubing inserted therethrough into the marrow space thereby bonding the articular surface repair system with the marrow space. Similarly screws or pins can be inserted into the openings and advanced to the underlying subchondral bone and the bone marrow or epiphysis to achieve fixation of the articular surface repair system to the bone. Portions or all components of the screw or pin can be bioresorbable for example the distal portion of a screw that protrudes into the marrow space can be bioresorbable. During the initial period after the surgery the screw can provide the primary fixation of the articular surface repair system. Subsequently ingrowth of bone into a porous coated area along the undersurface of the articular cartilage repair system can take over as the primary stabilizer of the articular surface repair system against the bone.

The articular surface repair system can be anchored to the patient s bone with use of a pin or screw or other attachment mechanism. The attachment mechanism can be bioresorbable. The screw or pin or attachment mechanism can be inserted and advanced towards the articular surface repair system from a non cartilage covered portion of the bone or from a non weight bearing surface of the joint.

The interface between the articular surface repair system and the surrounding normal cartilage can be at an angle for example oriented at an angle of 90 degrees relative to the underlying subchondral bone. Suitable angles can be determined in view of the teachings herein and in certain cases non 90 degree angles may have advantages with regard to load distribution along the interface between the articular surface repair system and the surrounding normal cartilage.

The interface between the articular surface repair system and the surrounding normal cartilage and or bone may be covered with a pharmaceutical or bioactive agent for example a material that stimulates the biological integration of the repair system into the normal cartilage and or bone. The surface area of the interface can be irregular for example to increase exposure of the interface to pharmaceutical or bioactive agents.

In another embodiment of the invention a container or well can be formed to the selected specifications for example to match the material needed for a particular subject or to create a stock of repair materials in a variety of sizes. The size and shape of the container may be designed using the thickness and curvature information obtained from the joint and from the cartilage defect. More specifically the inside of the container can be shaped to follow any selected measurements for example as obtained from the cartilage defect s of a particular subject. The container can be filled with a cartilage replacement or regenerating material for example collagen containing materials plastics bioresorbable materials and or any suitable tissue scaffold. The cartilage regenerating or replacement material can also consist of a suspension of stem cells or fetal or immature or mature cartilage cells that subsequently develop to more mature cartilage inside the container. Further development and or differentiation can be enhanced with use of certain tissue nutrients and growth factors.

The material is allowed to harden and or grow inside the container until the material has the desired traits for example thickness elasticity hardness biochemical composition etc. Molds can be generated using any suitable technique for example computer devices and automation e.g. computer assisted design CAD and for example computer assisted modeling CAM . Because the resulting material generally follows the contour of the inside of the container it will better fit the defect itself and facilitate integration.

In certain instances shaping of the repair material will be required before or after formation e.g. growth to desired thickness for example where the thickness of the required cartilage material is not uniform e.g. where different sections of the cartilage replacement or regenerating material require different thicknesses .

The replacement material can be shaped by any suitable technique including but not limited to mechanical abrasion laser abrasion or ablation radiofrequency treatment cryoablation variations in exposure time and concentration of nutrients enzymes or growth factors and any other means suitable for influencing or changing cartilage thickness. See e.g. WO 00 15153 If enzymatic digestion is used certain sections of the cartilage replacement or regenerating material can be exposed to higher doses of the enzyme or can be exposed longer as a means of achieving different thicknesses and curvatures of the cartilage replacement or regenerating material in different sections of said material.

The material can be shaped manually and or automatically for example using a device into which a pre selected thickness and or curvature has been inputted and programming the device to achieve the desired shape.

In addition to or instead of shaping the cartilage repair material the site of implantation e.g. bone surface any cartilage material remaining etc. can also be shaped by any suitable technique in order to enhanced integration of the repair material.

As described herein repair systems of various sizes curvatures and thicknesses can be obtained. These repair systems can be catalogued and stored to create a library of systems from which an appropriate system can then be selected. In other words a defect is assessed in a particular subject and a pre existing repair system having the closest shape and size is selected from the library for further manipulation e.g. shaping and implantation.

As noted above the methods and compositions described herein can be used to replace only a portion of the articular surface for example an area of diseased cartilage or lost cartilage on the articular surface. In these systems the articular surface repair system may be designed to replace only the area of diseased or lost cartilage or it can extend beyond the area of diseased or lost cartilage e.g. 3 or 5 mm into normal adjacent cartilage. In certain embodiments the prosthesis replaces less than about 70 to 80 or any value therebetween of the articular surface e.g. any given articular surface such as a single femoral condyle etc. preferably less than about 50 to 70 or any value therebetween more preferably less than about 30 to 50 or any value therebetween more preferably less than about 20 to 30 or any value therebetween even more preferably less than about 20 of the articular surface.

As noted above the prosthesis may include multiple components for example a component that is implanted into the bone e.g. a metallic device attached to a component that is shaped to cover the defect of the cartilage overlaying the bone. Additional components for example intermediate plates meniscus repairs systems and the like may also be included. It is contemplated that each component replaces less than all of the corresponding articular surface. However each component need not replace the same portion of the articular surface. In other words the prosthesis may have a bone implanted component that replaces less than 30 of the bone and a cartilage component that replaces 60 of the cartilage. The prosthesis may include any combination so long as each component replaces less than the entire articular surface.

The articular surface repair system may be formed or selected so that it will achieve a near anatomic fit or match with the surrounding or adjacent cartilage. Typically the articular surface repair system is formed and or selected so that its outer margin located at the external surface will be aligned with the surrounding or adjacent cartilage.

Thus the articular repair system can be designed to replace the weight bearing portion or more or less than the weight bearing portion of an articular surface for example in a femoral condyle. The weight bearing surface refers to the contact area between two opposing articular surfaces during activities of normal daily living e.g. normal gait . At least one or more weight bearing portions can be replaced in this manner e.g. on a femoral condyle and on a tibia.

In other embodiments an area of diseased cartilage or cartilage loss can be identified in a weight bearing area and only a portion of said weight bearing area specifically the portion containing said diseased cartilage or area of cartilage loss can be replaced with an articular surface repair system.

In another embodiment for example in patients with diffuse cartilage loss the articular repair system can be designed to replace an area slightly larger than the weight bearing surface.

In certain aspects the defect to be repaired is located only on one articular surface typically the most diseased surface. For example in a patient with severe cartilage loss in the medial femoral condyle but less severe disease in the tibia the articular surface repair system can only be applied to the medial femoral condyle. Preferably in any methods described herein the articular surface repair system is designed to achieve an exact or a near anatomic fit with the adjacent normal cartilage.

The area s of repair will be typically limited to areas of diseased cartilage or cartilage loss or areas slightly greater than the area of diseased cartilage or cartilage loss within the weight bearing surface s .

The implant and or the implant site can be sculpted to achieve a near anatomic alignment between the implant and the implant site. In another embodiment of the invention an electronic image is used to measure the thickness curvature or shape of the articular cartilage or the subchondral bone and or the size of a defect and an articular surface repair system is selected using this information. The articular surface repair system can be inserted arthroscopically. The articular surface repair system can have a single radius. More typically however the articular surface repair system can have varying curvatures and radii within the same plane e.g. anteroposterior or mediolateral or superoinferior or oblique planes or within multiple planes. In this manner the articular surface repair system can be shaped to achieve a near anatomic alignment between the implant and the implant site. This design allows not only allows for different degrees of convexity or concavity but also for concave portions within a predominantly convex shape or vice versa .

If a multiple component repair material has been selected for example with a superficial component consisting of a polymeric material and a deep component consisting of a metal alloy the superficial component can be designed so that its thickness and curvature will closely match that of the surrounding cartilage . Thus the superficial component can have more than one thickness in different portions of the articular repair system. Moreover the superficial component can have varying curvatures and radii within the same plane e.g. anteroposterior or mediolateral or superoinferior or oblique planes or within multiple planes. Similarly the deep component can have varying curvatures and radii within the same plane e.g. anteroposterior or mediolateral or superoinferior or oblique planes or within multiple planes. Typically the curvature of the deep component will be designed to follow that of the subchondral bone.

In another embodiment the articular surface repair system has a fixturing stem for example as described in the Background of U.S. Pat. No. 6 224 632. The fixturing stem can have different shapes including conical rectangular fin among others. The mating bone cavity is typically similarly shaped as the corresponding stem.

As shown in the articular surface repair system can be affixed to the subchondral bone with one or more fixturing stems pegs extending through the subchondral plate into the marrow space. In certain instances this design may reduce the likelihood that the implant will settle deeper into the joint over time by resting portions of the implant against the subchondral bone. The fixturing stems or pegs can be of any shape for example cylindrical or conical. Optionally the fixturing stems or pegs can have notches or openings to allow bone ingrowth. In addition the fixturing stems or pegs can be porous coated for bone ingrowth. The fixturing stems or pegs can be affixed to the bone using bone cement. An anchoring device can be affixed to the fixturing stem or peg. The anchoring device can have an umbrella shape e.g. radially expanding elements with the wider portion pointing towards the subchondral bone and away from the peg. The anchoring device can be advantageous for providing immediate fixation of the implant. The undersurface of the articular repair system facing the subchondral bone can be textured or rough thereby increasing the contact surface between the articular repair system and the subchondral bone. Alternatively the undersurface of the articular repair system can be porous coated thereby allowing ingrowth. The surgeon can support the ingrowth of bone by treating the subchondral bone with a rasp typically to create a larger surface area and or until bleeding from the subchondral bone occurs.

In another embodiment the articular surface repair system can be attached to the underlying bone or bone marrow using bone cement. Bone cement is typically made from an acrylic polymeric material. Typically the bone cement is comprised of two components a dry power component and a liquid component which are subsequently mixed together. The dry component generally includes an acrylic polymer such as polymethylmethacrylate PMMA . The dry component can also contain a polymerization initiator such as benzoylperoxide which initiates the free radical polymerization process that occurs when the bone cement is formed. The liquid component on the other hand generally contains a liquid monomer such as methyl methacrylate MMA . The liquid component can also contain an accelerator such as an amine e.g. N N dimethyl p toluidine . A stabilizer such as hydroquinone can also be added to the liquid component to prevent premature polymerization of the liquid monomer. When the liquid component is mixed with the dry component the dry component begins to dissolve or swell in the liquid monomer. The amine accelerator reacts with the initiator to form free radicals that begin to link monomer units to form polymer chains. In the next two to four minutes the polymerization process proceeds changing the viscosity of the mixture from a syrup like consistency low viscosity into a dough like consistency high viscosity . Ultimately further polymerization and curing occur causing the cement to harden and affix a prosthesis to a bone.

In certain aspects of the invention bone cement or another liquid attachment material such as injectable calciumhydroxyapatite can be injected into the marrow cavity through one or more openings in the prosthesis. These openings in the prosthesis can extend from the articular surface to the undersurface of the prosthesis . After injection the openings can be closed with a polymer silicon metal metal alloy or bioresorbable plug.

In another embodiment one or more components of the articular surface repair e.g. the surface of the system that is pointing towards the underlying bone or bone marrow can be porous or porous coated. A variety of different porous metal coatings have been proposed for enhancing fixation of a metallic prosthesis by bone tissue ingrowth. Thus for example U.S. Pat. No. 3 855 638 discloses a surgical prosthetic device which may be used as a bone prosthesis comprising a composite structure consisting of a solid metallic material substrate and a porous coating of the same solid metallic material adhered to and extending over at least a portion of the surface of the substrate. The porous coating consists of a plurality of small discrete particles of metallic material bonded together at their points of contact with each other to define a plurality of connected interstitial pores in the coating. The size and spacing of the particles which can be distributed in a plurality of monolayers can be such that the average interstitial pore size is not more than about 200 microns. Additionally the pore size distribution can be substantially uniform from the substrate coating interface to the surface of the coating. In another embodiment the articular surface repair system can contain one or more polymeric materials that can be loaded with and release therapeutic agents including drugs or other pharmacological treatments that can be used for drug delivery. The polymeric materials can for example be placed inside areas of porous coating. The polymeric materials can be used to release therapeutic drugs e.g. bone or cartilage growth stimulating drugs. This embodiment can be combined with other embodiments wherein portions of the articular surface repair system can be bioresorbable. For example the superficial layer of an articular surface repair system or portions of its superficial layer can be bioresorbable. As the superficial layer gets increasingly resorbed local release of a cartilage growth stimulating drug can facilitate ingrowth of cartilage cells and matrix formation.

In any of the methods or compositions described herein the articular surface repair system can be pre manufactured with a range of sizes curvatures and thicknesses. Alternatively the articular surface repair system can be custom made for an individual patient.

The articular repair system may be formed or selected so that it will achieve a near anatomic fit or match with the surrounding or adjacent cartilage or subchondral bone or menisci and other tissue. The shape of the repair system can be based on the analysis of an electronic image e.g. MRI CT digital tomosynthesis optical coherence tomography or the like . If the articular repair system is intended to replace an area of diseased cartilage or lost cartilage the near anatomic fit can be achieved using a method that provides a virtual reconstruction of the shape of healthy cartilage in an electronic image.

In one embodiment of the invention a near normal cartilage surface at the position of the cartilage defect may be reconstructed by interpolating the healthy cartilage surface across the cartilage defect or area of diseased cartilage. This can for example be achieved by describing the healthy cartilage by means of a parametric surface e.g. a B spline surface for which the control points are placed such that the parametric surface follows the contour of the healthy cartilage and bridges the cartilage defect or area of diseased cartilage. The continuity properties of the parametric surface will provide a smooth integration of the part that bridges the cartilage defect or area of diseased cartilage with the contour of the surrounding healthy cartilage. The part of the parametric surface over the area of the cartilage defect or area of diseased cartilage can be used to determine the shape or part or the shape of the articular repair system to match with the surrounding cartilage.

In another embodiment a near normal cartilage surface at the position of the cartilage defect or area of diseased cartilage may be reconstructed using morphological image processing. In a first step the cartilage can be extracted from the electronic image using manual semi automated and or automated segmentation techniques e.g. manual tracing region growing live wire model based segmentation resulting in a binary image. Defects in the cartilage appear as indentations that may be filled with a morphological closing operation performed in 2 D or 3 D with an appropriately selected structuring element. The closing operation is typically defined as a dilation followed by an erosion. A dilation operator sets the current pixel in the output image to 1 if at least one pixel of the structuring element lies inside a region in the source image. An erosion operator sets the current pixel in the output image to 1 if the whole structuring element lies inside a region in the source image. The filling of the cartilage defect or area of diseased cartilage creates a new surface over the area of the cartilage defect or area of diseased cartilage that can be used to determine the shape or part of the shape of the articular repair system to match with the surrounding cartilage or subchondral bone.

As described above the articular repair system may be formed or selected from a library or database of systems of various sizes curvatures and thicknesses so that it will achieve a near anatomic fit or match with the surrounding or adjacent cartilage and or subchondral bone. These systems can be pre made or made to order for an individual patient. In order to control the fit or match of the articular repair system with the surrounding or adjacent cartilage or subchondral bone or menisci and other tissues preoperatively a software program may be used that projects the articular repair system over the anatomic position where it will be implanted. Suitable software may be commercially available and or readily modified or designed by a skilled programmer.

In yet another embodiment the articular surface repair system may be projected over the implantation site using one or more 3 D images. The cartilage and or subchondral bone and other anatomic structures are extracted from a 3 D electronic image such as an MRI or a CT using manual semi automated and or automated segmentation techniques. A 3 D representation of the cartilage and or subchondral bone and other anatomic structures as well as the articular repair system is generated for example using a polygon or NURBS surface or other parametric surface representation. For a description of various parametric surface representations see for example Foley J. D. et al. Computer Graphics Principles and Practice in C Addison Wesley 2.sup.nd edition 1995 . The 3 D representations of the cartilage and or subchondral bone and other anatomic structures and the articular repair system can be merged into a common coordinate system. The articular repair system can then be placed at the desired implantation site. The representations of the cartilage subchondral bone menisci and other anatomic structures and the articular repair system are rendered into a 3 D image for example application programming interfaces APIs OpenGL standard library of advanced 3 D graphics functions developed by SGI Inc. available as part of the drivers for PC based video cards for example from www.nvidia.com for NVIDIA video cards or www.3dlabs.com for 3Dlabs products or as part of the system software for Unix workstations or DirectX multimedia API for Microsoft Windows based PC systems available from www.microsoft.com . The 3 D image may be rendered showing the cartilage subchondral bone menisci or other anatomic objects and the articular repair system from varying angles e.g. by rotating or moving them interactively or non interactively in real time or non real time. The software can be designed so that the articular repair system with the best fit relative to the cartilage and or subchondral bone is automatically selected for example using some of the techniques described above. Alternatively the operator can select an articular repair system and project it or drag it onto the implantation site using suitable tools and techniques. The operator can move and rotate the articular repair systems in three dimensions relative to the implantation site and can perform a visual inspection of the fit between the articular repair system and the implantation site. The visual inspection can be computer assisted. The procedure can be repeated until a satisfactory fit has been achieved. The procedure can be entirely manual by the operator it can however also be computer assisted. For example the software may select a first trial implant that the operator can test. The operator can evaluate the fit. The software can be designed and used to highlight areas of poor alignment between the implant and the surrounding cartilage or subchondral bone or menisci or other tissues. Based on this information the software or the operator can select another implant and test its alignment. One of skill in the art will readily be able to select modify and or create suitable computer programs for the purposes described herein.

In another embodiment the implantation site may be visualized using one or more cross sectional 2 D images. Typically a series of 2 D cross sectional images will be used. The 2 D images can be generated with imaging tests such as CT MRI digital tomosynthesis ultrasound or optical coherence tomography using methods and tools known to those of skill in the art. The articular repair system can then be superimposed onto one or more of these 2 D images. The 2 D cross sectional images can be reconstructed in other planes e.g. from sagittal to coronal etc. Isotropic data sets e.g. data sets where the slice thickness is the same or nearly the same as the in plane resolution or near isotropic data sets can also be used. Multiple planes can be displayed simultaneously for example using a split screen display. The operator can also scroll through the 2 D images in any desired orientation in real time or near real time the operator can rotate the imaged tissue volume while doing this. The articular repair system can be displayed in cross section utilizing different display planes e.g. sagittal coronal or axial typically matching those of the 2 D images demonstrating the cartilage subchondral bone menisci or other tissue. Alternatively a three dimensional display can be used for the articular repair system. The 2 D electronic image and the 2 D or 3 D representation of the articular repair system can be merged into a common coordinate system. The cartilage repair system can then be placed at the desired implantation site. The series of 2 D cross sections of the anatomic structures the implantation site and the articular repair system may be displayed interactively e.g. the operator can scroll through a series of slices or non interactively e.g. as an animation that moves through the series of slices in real time or non real time.

The software can be designed so that the articular repair system with the best fit relative to the cartilage and or subchondral bone is automatically selected for example using one or more of the techniques described above. Alternatively the operator can select an articular repair system and project it or drag it onto the implantation site displayed on the cross sectional 2 D images. The operator can move and rotate the articular repair system relative to the implantation site and scroll through a cross sectional 2 D display of the articular repair system and of the anatomic structures. The operator can perform a visual and or computer assisted inspection of the fit between the articular repair system and the implantation site. The procedure can be repeated until a satisfactory fit has been achieved. The procedure can be entirely manual by the operator it can however also be computer assisted. For example the software may select a first trial implant that the operator can test e.g. evaluate the fit . Software that highlights areas of poor alignment between the implant and the surrounding cartilage or subchondral bone or menisci or other tissues can also be designed and used. Based on this information the software or the operator can select another implant and test its alignment.

Following one or more manipulations e.g. shaping growth development etc the cartilage replacement or regenerating material can then be implanted into the area of the defect. Implantation can be performed with the cartilage replacement or regenerating material still attached to the base material or removed from the base material. Any suitable methods and devices may be used for implantation for example devices as described in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 375 658 6 358 253 6 328 765 and International Publication WO 01 19254.

In selected cartilage defects the implantation site can be prepared with a single cut across the articular surface . In this case single and multi component prostheses can be utilized.

Further surgical assistance can be provided by using a device applied to the outer surface of the articular cartilage or the bone in order to match the alignment of the articular repair system and the recipient site or the joint. The device can be round circular oval ellipsoid curved or irregular in shape. The shape can be selected or adjusted to match or enclose an area of diseased cartilage or an area slightly larger than the area of diseased cartilage. Alternatively the device can be designed to be substantially larger than the area of diseased cartilage. Such devices are typically preferred when replacement of a majority or an entire articular surface is contemplated.

Mechanical devices can be used for surgical assistance e.g. surgical tools for example using gels molds plastics or metal. One or more electronic images can be obtained providing object coordinates that define the articular and or bone surface and shape. These objects coordinates can be utilized to either shape the device e.g. using a CAD CAM technique to be adapted to a patient s articular anatomy or alternatively to select a typically pre made device that has a good fit with a patient s articular anatomy. The device can have a surface and shape that will match all or portions of the articular or bone surface and shape e.g. similar to a mirror image. The device can include apertures slots and or holes to accommodate surgical instruments such as drills and saws. Typically a position will be chosen that will result in an anatomically desirable cut plane or drill hole orientation for subsequent placement of an articular repair system. Moreover the device can be designed so that the depth of the drill can be controlled e.g. the drill cannot go any deeper into the tissue than defined by the thickness of the device and the size of the hole in block can be designed to essentially match the size of the implant. Information about other joints or axis and alignment information of a joint or extremity can be included when selecting the position of these slots or holes.

In certain embodiments the surgical assistance device comprises an array of adjustable closely spaced pins e.g. plurality of individually moveable mechanical elements . One or more electronic images can be obtained providing object coordinates that define the articular and or bone surface and shape. These objects coordinates can be entered or transferred into the device for example manually or electronically and the information can be used to create a surface and shape that will match all or portions of the articular and or bone surface and shape by moving one or more of the elements e.g. similar to a mirror image. The device can include slots and holes to accommodate surgical instruments such as drills and saws. The position of these slots and holes can be adjusted by moving one or more of the mechanical elements. Typically a position will be chosen that will result in an anatomically desirable cut plane or drill hole orientation for subsequent placement of an articular repair system. Information about other joints or axis and alignment information of a joint or extremity can be included when selecting the position of these slots or holes.

In another embodiment a frame can be applied to the bone or the cartilage in areas other than the diseased bone or cartilage. The frame can include holders and guides for surgical instruments. The frame can be attached to one or preferably more previously defined anatomic reference points. Alternatively the position of the frame can be cross registered relative to one preferably more anatomic landmarks using an imaging test for example one or more fluoroscopic images acquired intraoperatively. One or more electronic images can be obtained providing object coordinates that define the articular and or bone surface and shape. These objects coordinates can be entered or transferred into the device for example manually or electronically and the information can be used to move one or more of the holders or guides for surgical instruments. Typically a position will be chosen that will result in a surgically or anatomically desirable cut plane or drill hole orientation for subsequent placement of an articular repair system. Information about other joints or axis and alignment information of a joint or extremity can be included when selecting the position of these slots or holes.

For example when a total knee arthroplasty is contemplated the patient can undergo an imaging test that will demonstrate the articular anatomy of a knee joint e.g. width of the femoral condyles the tibial plateau etc. Additionally other joints can be included in the imaging test thereby yielding information on femoral and tibial axes deformities such as varus and valgus and other articular alignment. The imaging test can be an x ray image preferably in standing load bearing position a CT scan or an MRI scan or combinations thereof. The articular surface and shape as well as alignment information generated with the imaging test can be used to shape the surgical assistance device or can be entered into the surgical assistance device and can be used to define the preferred location and orientation of saw guides or drill holes or guides for reaming devices. Intraoperatively the surgical assistance device is applied to the femoral condyle s and subsequently the tibial plateau s by matching its surface with the articular surface or by attaching it to anatomic reference points on the bone or cartilage. The surgeon can then introduce a saw through the saw guides and prepare the joint for the implantation. By cutting the cartilage and bone along anatomically defined planes a more reproducible placement of the implant can be achieved. This can ultimately result in improved postoperative results by optimizing biomechanical stresses applied to the implant and surrounding bone for the patient s anatomy.

Thus surgical tools described herein may also be designed and used to control drill alignment depth and width for example when preparing a site to receive an implant. See and . For example the tools described herein which typically conform to the joint surface may provide for improved drill alignment and more accurate placement of any implant. An anatomically correct tool can be constructed by a number of methods and may be made of any material preferably a translucent material such as plastic lucite silastic SLA or the like and typically is a block like shape prior to molding.

Furthermore re useable tools e.g. molds may be also be created and employed. Non limiting examples of re useable materials include putties and other deformable materials e.g. an array of adjustable closely spaced pins that can be configured to match the topography of a joint surface . In these embodiments the mold may be created directly from the joint during surgery or alternatively created from an image of the joint for example using one or more computer programs to determine object coordinates defining the surface contour of the joint and transferring e.g. dialing in these coordinates to the tool. Subsequently the tool can be aligned accurately over the joint and accordingly the drill and implant will be more accurately placed in and over the articular surface.

In both single use and re useable embodiments the tool can be designed so that the depth of the block controls the depth of the drill i.e. the drill cannot go any deeper into the tissue than the depth of block and the size of the hole in block can be designed to essentially match the size of the implant. The tool can be used for general prosthesis implantation including but not limited to the articular repair implants described herein and for reaming the marrow in the case of a total arthroplasty.

These surgical tools devices can also be used to remove an area of diseased cartilage and underlying bone or an area slightly larger than the diseased cartilage and underlying bone. In addition the device can be used on a donor e.g. a cadaveric specimen to obtain implantable repair material. The device is typically positioned in the same general anatomic area in which the tissue was removed in the recipient. The shape of the device is then used to identify a donor site providing a seamless or near seamless match between the donor tissue sample and the recipient site. This is achieved by identifying the position of the device in which the articular surface in the donor e.g. a cadaveric specimen has a seamless or near seamless contact with the inner surface when applied to the cartilage.

The device can be molded machined or formed based on the size of the area of diseased cartilage and based on the curvature of the cartilage or the underlying subchondral bone or a combination of both. The device can then be applied to the donor e.g. a cadaveric specimen and the donor tissue can be obtained with use of a blade or saw or other tissue cutting device. The device can then be applied to the recipient in the area of the diseased cartilage and the diseased cartilage and underlying bone can be removed with use of a blade or saw or other tissue cutting device whereby the size and shape of the removed tissue containing the diseased cartilage will closely resemble the size and shape of the donor tissue. The donor tissue can then be attached to the recipient site. For example said attachment can be achieved with use of screws or pins e.g. metallic non metallic or bioresorable or other fixation means including but not limited to a tissue adhesive. Attachment can be through the cartilage surface or alternatively through the marrow space.

The implant site can be prepared with use of a robotic device. The robotic device can use information from an electronic image for preparing the recipient site.

Identification and preparation of the implant site and insertion of the implant can be supported by an image guided surgery system surgical navigation system . In such a system the position or orientation of a surgical instrument with respect to the patient s anatomy is tracked in real time in one or more 2D or 3D images. These 2D or 3D images can images or can be calculated from images that were acquired preoperatively such as MR or CT images. The position and orientation of the surgical instrument is determined from markers attached to the instrument. These markers can be located by a detector using for example optical acoustical or electromagnetic signals.

Identification and preparation of the implant site and insertion of the implant can also be supported with use of a C arm system. The C arm system can afford imaging of the joint in one or more preferred multiple planes. The multiplanar imaging capability can aid in defining the shape of an articular surface. This information can be used to selected an implant with a good fit to the articular surface. Currently available C arm systems also afford cross sectional imaging capability for example for identification and preparation of the implant site and insertion of the implant. C arm imaging can be combined with administration of radiographic contrast.

In still other embodiments the surgical devices described herein can include one or more materials that harden to form a mold of the articular surface. A wide variety of materials that harden in situ have been described including polymers that can be triggered to undergo a phase change for example polymers that are liquid or semi liquid and harden to solids or gels upon exposure to air application of ultraviolet light visible light exposure to blood water or other ionic changes. See also U.S. Pat. No. 6 443 988 and documents cited therein . Non limiting examples of suitable curable and hardening materials include polyurethane materials e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 443 988 5 288 797 4 098 626 and 4 594 380 and Lu et al. 2000 BioMaterials 21 15 1595 1605 describing porous poly L lactide acid foams hydrophilic polymers as disclosed for example in U.S. Pat. No. 5 162 430 hydrogel materials such as those described in Wake et al. 1995 Cell Transplantation 4 3 275 279 Wiese et al. 2001 J. Biomedical Materials Research 54 2 179 188 and Marler et al. 2000 Plastic Reconstruct. Surgery 105 6 2049 2058 hyaluronic acid materials e.g. Duranti et al. 1998 Dermatologic Surgery 24 12 1317 1325 expanding beads such as chitin beads e.g. Yusof et al. 2001 J. Biomedical Materials Research 54 1 59 68 and or materials used in dental applications See e.g. Brauer and Antonucci Dental Applications pp. 257 258 in Concise Encyclopedia of Polymer Science and Engineering and U.S. Pat. No. 4 368 040 . Any biocompatible material that is sufficiently flowable to permit it to be delivered to the joint and there undergo complete cure in situ under physiologically acceptable conditions can be used. The material may also be biodegradable.

The curable materials can be used in conjunction with a surgical tool as described herein. For example the surgical tool may include one or more apertures therein adapted to receive injections and the curable materials can be injected through the apertures. Prior to solidifying in situ the materials will conform to the articular surface facing the surgical tool and accordingly will form a mirror image impression of the surface upon hardening thereby recreating a normal or near normal articular surface. In addition curable materials or surgical tools can also be used in conjunction with any of the imaging tests and analysis described herein for example by molding these materials or surgical tools based on an image of a joint.

Also described herein are kits comprising one or more of the methods systems and or compositions described herein. In particular a kit may include one or more of the following instructions methods of obtaining electronic images systems or instructions for evaluating electronic images one or more computer means capable of analyzing or processing the electronic images and or one or more surgical tools for implanting an articular repair system. The kits may include other materials for example instructions reagents containers and or imaging aids e.g. films holders digitizers etc. .

The following examples are included to more fully illustrate the present invention. Additionally these examples provide preferred embodiments of the invention and are not meant to limit the scope thereof.

Areas of cartilage are imaged as described herein to detect areas of cartilage loss and or diseased cartilage. The margins and shape of the cartilage and subchondral bone adjacent to the diseased areas are determined. The thickness of the cartilage is determined. The size of the articular repair system is determined based on the above measurements. . In particular the repair system is either selected based on best fit from a catalogue of existing pre made implants with a range of different sizes and curvatures or custom designed using CAD CAM technology. The library of existing shapes is typically on the order of about 30 sizes.

The implant is a chromium cobalt implant see also and . The articular surface is polished and the external dimensions slightly greater than the area of diseased cartilage. The shape is adapted to achieve perfect or near perfect joint congruity utilizing shape information of surrounding cartilage and underlying subchondral bone. Other design features of the implant may include a slanted 60 to 70 degree angle interface to adjacent cartilage a broad based base component for depth control a press fit design of base component a porous coating of base component for ingrowth of bone and rigid stabilization a dual peg design for large defects implant stabilization also porous coated a single stabilizer strut with tapered four fin and step design for small focal defects also porous coated and a design applicable to femoral resurfacing convex external surface and tibial resurfacing concave external surface .

The articular repair systems are inserted using arthroscopic assistance. The device does not require the 15 to 30 cm incision utilized in unicompartmental and total knee arthroplasties. The procedure is performed under regional anesthesia typically epidural anesthesia. The surgeon may apply a tourniquet on the upper thigh of the patient to restrict the blood flow to the knee during the procedure. The leg is prepped and draped in sterile technique. A stylette is used to create two small 2 mm ports at the anteromedial and the anterolateral aspect of the joint using classical arthroscopic technique. The arthroscope is inserted via the lateral port. The arthroscopic instruments are inserted via the medial port. The cartilage defect is visualized using the arthroscope. A cartilage defect locator device is placed inside the diseased cartilage. The probe has a U shape with the first arm touching the center of the area of diseased cartilage inside the joint and the second arm of the U remaining outside the joint. The second arm of the U indicates the position of the cartilage relative to the skin. The surgeon marks the position of the cartilage defect on the skin. A 3 cm incision is created over the defect. Tissue retractors are inserted and the defect is visualized.

A translucent Lucite block matching the 3D shape of the adjacent cartilage and the cartilage defect is placed over the cartilage defect . For larger defects the Lucite block includes a lateral slot for insertion of a saw. The saw is inserted and a straight cut is made across the articular surface removing an area slightly larger than the diseased cartilage. The center of the Lucite block contains two drill holes with a 7.2 mm diameter. A 7.1 mm drill with drill guide controlling the depth of tissue penetration is inserted via the drill hole. Holes for the cylindrical pegs of the implant are created. The drill and the Lucite block are subsequently removed.

A plastic model trial implant of the mini repair system matching the outer dimensions of the implant is then inserted. The trial implant is utilized to confirm anatomic placement of the actual implant. If indicated the surgeon can make smaller adjustments at this point to improve the match e.g. slight expansion of the drill holes or adjustment of the cut plane.

The implant is then inserted with the pegs pointing into the drill holes. Anterior and posterior positions of the implant are color coded specifically the anterior peg is marked with a red color and a small letter A while the posterior peg has a green color and a small letter P . Similarly the medial aspect of the implant is color coded yellow and marked with a small letter M and the lateral aspect of the implant is marked with a small letter L . The Lucite block is then placed on the external surface of the implant and a plastic hammer is used to gently advance the pegs into the drill holes. The pegs are designed to achieve a press fit.

The same technique can be applied in the tibia. The implant has a concave articular surface matching the 3D shape of the tibial plateau. Immediate stabilization of the device can be achieved by combining it with bone cement if desired.

After identification of the cartilage defect and marking of the skin surface using the proprietary U shaped cartilage defect locator device as described herein a 3 cm incision is placed and the tissue retractors are inserted. The cartilage defect is visualized.

A first Lucite block matching the 3D surface of the femoral condyle is placed over the cartilage defect. The central portion of the Lucite block contains a drill hole with an inner diameter of for example 1.5 cm corresponding to the diameter of the base plate of the implant. A standard surgical drill with a drill guide for depth control is inserted through the Lucite block and the recipient site is prepared for the base component of the implant. The drill and the Lucite block are then removed.

A second Lucite block of identical outer dimensions is then placed over the implant recipient site. The second Lucite block has a rounded cylindrical extension matching the size of the first drill hole and matching the shape of the base component of the implant with a diameter 0.1 mm smaller than the first drill hole and 0.2 mm smaller than that of the base of the implant. The cylindrical extension is placed inside the first drill hole.

The second Lucite block contains a drill hole extending from the external surface of the block to the cylindrical extension. The inner diameter of the second drill hole matches the diameter of the distal portion of the fin shaped stabilizer strut of the implant e.g. 3 mm. A drill e.g. with 3 mm diameter with a drill guide for depth control is inserted into the second hole and the recipient site is prepared for the stabilizer strut with four fin and step design. The drill and the Lucite block are then removed.

A plastic model trial implant matching the 3 D shape of the final implant with a diameter of the base component of 0.2 mm less than that of the final implant and a cylindrical rather than tapered strut stabilizer with a diameter of 0.1 mm less than the distal portion of the final implant is then placed inside the cartilage defect. The plastic model trial implant is used to confirm alignment of the implant surface with the surrounding cartilage. The surgeon then performs final adjustments.

The implant is subsequently placed inside the recipient site. The anterior fin of the implant is marked with red color and labeled A. The posterior fin is marked green with a label P and the medial fin is color coded yellow with a label M. The Lucite block is then placed over the implant. A plastic hammer is utilized to advance the implant slowly into the recipient site. A press fit is achieved with help of the tapered and four fin design of the strut as well as the slightly greater diameter 0.1 mm of the base component relative to the drill hole. The Lucite block is removed. The tissue retractors are then removed. Standard surgical technique is used to close the 3 cm incision. The same procedure described above for the medial femoral condyle can also be applied to the lateral femoral condyle the medial tibial plateau the lateral tibial plateau and the patella. Immediate stabilization of the device can be achieved by combining it with bone cement if desired.

