---

title: Personal trend management
abstract: A method and apparatus for personal trend management is provided. A request is received to associate a template with a user. The template includes instructions that define one or more data analysis strategies. Data associated with a data collection device that includes time stamped events associated with the user is received. Based on a strategy defined in the template and the data received from the data collection device, a result that conveys information relating to one or more trends involving the events is generated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09459938&OS=09459938&RS=09459938
owner: TrendMe, Inc.
number: 09459938
owner_city: Chandler
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101209
---
Consumers have a variety of data collection devices collection devices at their disposal. These devices collect information that can be associated with the user of the device. For example a digital pedometer such as the Nike device may be used to keep track of the number of steps a user has taken. Data collection devices also include devices that receive manual input from users. For example a user may press a button on a device each time he smokes a cigarette to track his smoking habit.

The number of devices that collect information about individuals is rising fueled by the declining cost of technology and the growing desire for personalized information. Mobile devices such as mobile phones personal digital assistants and health monitoring devices often remain with their owners throughout the entire day. More traditional devices such as televisions cameras and even refrigerators have become connected devices capable of tracking information and sending that information over a network. Even non connected devices are being retro fitted to become network enabled using smart electrical outlets that track energy for each appliance and upload the resulting data to a system capable of presenting the data in a useful way.

Data collection devices that are directed to consumers with a desire to collect data about themselves are often sold with software that allows the user of the device to perform some level of analysis and reporting related to the data collected by the device. Rather than distribute software with each device manufacturers of other data collection devices provide websites for the user to visit. Users of the Internet often register or create accounts with a variety of web sites by generating unique identifiers such as user names. By registering with a web site a user becomes uniquely identifiable to the web site allowing the user to create request and receive personalized content. Users may log in to each web site in order to view this personalized content. Such websites often provide a password protected interface that allows the user to view and manipulate the data collected by the associated data collection device.

Although the hardware required to track information about individuals is inexpensive the requirement that the manufacturer of the data collection device create a software application or website that allows the user to view a meaningful interpretation of the data creates barrier to entry for would be data collection device manufacturers. Manufacturers may raise the cost of the device to help mitigate the costs of offering a free web based service or may charge an ongoing separate fee for the service.

One example of a data collection device that relies on a web based service is the Fitbit. The Fitbit includes an accelerometer that tracks the motion of the person wearing the device. An accelerometer is a small inexpensive electromechanical device that measures acceleration forces. The constant force of gravity or forces caused by moving may be measured using an accelerometer. Measuring constant gravitational forces even allows data collection devices to sense the angle at which the device is tilted with respect to the earth. The Fitbit uses the accelerometer to generate motion data and uploads the data to a server that is used to determine sleeping habits activity levels and other information based on the data.

The ability to analyze data collected by each device is limited by the capabilities of the associated software or website. Although some data collection devices offer access to the raw data gathered by the device the users of these devices are often not well equipped to analyze the data in a meaningful way that is different from the general analysis available through the manufacturer s website. However the manufacturer s website may not provide the level of user customization or the type of analysis desired by the user.

In addition most websites limit the amount of control that users have over customization of reporting and many assumptions are made by the reporting tools to allow the reports to work for the largest number of people. The ability to perform a detailed personal analysis of collected data is sacrificed in favor of broad coverage.

The approaches described in this section are approaches that could be pursued but not necessarily approaches that have been previously conceived or pursued. Therefore unless otherwise indicated it should not be assumed that any of the approaches described in this section qualify as prior art merely by virtue of their inclusion in this section.

In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. It will be apparent however that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present invention.

Users of data collection devices are often interested in an analysis of the information gathered by the devices particularly if that information tells them something useful or interesting about themselves. For example users may wish to be aware of trends that may be identified through the use of data collection devices. A trend is a tendency or an inclination in a particular direction. The tendency shown by a trend may occur over a period of time or within a particular space. For example a user may have a tendency to smoke more cigarettes at work than at home. However a trend that a user is interested in may not be available via the website or software provided by the manufacturer of the data collection device that gathers the data from which the trend may be deduced. Consequently techniques are provided herein that allow users to send data from many different data collection devices to a trend management system and to have that data analyzed based on templates.

Users are no longer limited to analyzing data collected by a data collection device only using methods provided by the manufacturer. Users can combine data from multiple data collection devices and analyze the data gathered by each device using context provided by the other device even if the devices are unaware of each other.

Because the analysis is performed by the trend analysis system based on templates and the templates may be developed by sources other than the data collection device manufacturers the data collection device manufacturers need not develop and maintain their own analysis software. Consequently the overhead associated with providing a data collection device is reduced resulting in less expensive data collection devices. Device manufacturers can build devices that collect relevant data and rely on third parties to determine the best ways to analyze the data collected from the device. Also developers of data analysis strategies may find new ways to use the data gathered from existing devices.

In addition because the trend management system is able to receive data from multiple types of data collection devices a single template may make use of multiple types of data gather from multiple types of data collection devices to find trends that would not be discoverable based on the data of only one of the data collection devices.

As mentioned above techniques are provided in which data gathered for a single user from multiple types of data collection devices may be sent to a single trend management system. According to one embodiment the user creates an account on a website or other interface that is connected to a personal trend management system. The user then registers a particular data collection device such as a Fitbit with his account. Registration includes providing a username and password to a data source that stores data from the data collection device configuring the device to send data to the personal trend management system or any other steps required to make data generated by the data collection device available to the personal trend management system.

In an embodiment users may register a large quantity and variety of data collection devices with the account with the personal trend management system. The data collection devices that are registered with the personal trend management system include specific hardware data collection devices and or virtual data collection devices that are not hardware specific. For example a user may register a Facebook account with the system as a virtual data collection device that may collect information about the user via a smartphone personal computer or other means.

In an embodiment each data collection device that is registered with the personal trend management system is associated with one or more event categories which define the type of events generated by the data collection device. For example the Nike device and the Fitbit device are both capable of collecting event data that describes the distance travelled by the user of the device. Consequently the Nike device and the Fitbit device are both be registered as devices that belong to a Distance Travelled category. As another example only certain iPhones and Android phones may have global position detection capabilities. Only those phones with global position detection capabilities would be associated with location events being at a particular place at a particular time and therefore belong to a Location category.

Within the personal trend management system each data collection device may be defined by the actual model number of the device or may be based on the software capabilities of the device or category of the device.

According to one embodiment templates that define data analysis strategies may be available to users to help users analyze the data collected on their behalf. Templates may define the use of data from more than one data collection device to generate a useful presentation for the user. For example location data may be gathered from the user s mobile telephone and heart rate data may be gathered from the user s mobile heart rate monitoring device. A template may a allow the user to define the location parameters that identify the user s place of work and the user s home and b implement a data analysis strategy that correlates the user s heart rate with those two locations. Using such a template a user may obtain a data presentation from the personal trend management system that shows for example that the user s heart rate is much higher at work than it is at home. Users may use any template on the system as long as the user has a device that generates the type of events used by the template.

In an embodiment users can customize their experience by placing templates into a hierarchy of templates which is organized in terms of trend categories. Each template may be placed into one or more trend categories. Trend categories may also have as child nodes other trend categories.

For example one level of the hierarchy may have three trend categories body mind and heart . The body trend category may include templates that measure exercise and nutrition. There may even be an exercise trend category under the body trend category and may include several exercise specific templates and .

In one embodiment a score is generated for each template in each trend category based on the data collected for a given user. Further based on the scores of the templates associated with each trend category a score is generated for each trend category for the given user. In generating the score for a given trend category a weight is be assigned to each template in the trend category. The weight associated with each template in a trend category may be based for example on the degree to which the strategy of each template is reflected in a trend category.

A user uses trend categories to define the importance of each template. For example a user may want to generate scores that indicate a level of success or accomplishment for each of the three trend categories body mind and heart . In one embodiment scores are generated for the user for the templates that belong to the trend categories and a score is then generated for each node in the trend hierarchy. A composite report is then generated for each of the body mind and heart trend categories based on the child nodes trend category and templates of each trend category and the weight of that child node.

For example the user may have a score of 86 from an exercise related template and a score of 50 from a nutrition related template. The user may have assigned a weight of 40 to the exercise related template and a weight of 60 to the nutrition related template. The body trend category may then be assigned a score that is based on these scores and weights. For example the score for the body trend category may be determined by the following formula 86 0.4 50 0.6 64.4 . Performing this analysis for each trend category a success score is generated for each trend category that the user deems important in the way outlined by the user. The user is able to quickly determine which portions of his life are out of balance based on the events generated by data collection devices.

In the embodiment illustrated in data collection devices include a personal gaming system A a general or special purpose computer B a global positioning system GPS device C a television or advanced television D a gaming console or controller E a camera F a motion tracking device G a smart battery system H a personal digital assistant PDA I a personal audio player J or a telephone or mobile phone such as smart phone K. However these are merely examples of devices that are able to collect data. Other data collection devices may be used. For example automobiles are data collection devices that collect data which may be accessed via an interface such as an ODBCII interface Bluetooth interface modem or other interface. Automobiles may also include data collection devices such as sensors entertainment systems climate control systems and other devices. Data collection devices which have not yet been conceived may be used in a future embodiment. The techniques described herein are not limited to any particular type of data collection devices.

A data collection device such as GPS device C collects event data such as time stamped location data. The data collection device sends the event data to the trend management engine . Trend management engine processes the data and generates reports and other output which may be viewed by the user of the data collection device. The output may be sent to the data collection device that generated the data or to another device such as computer B.

A template manager is coupled to trend management engine via an application programming interface API . Template manager may be included in trend management engine or may be separate from trend management engine as shown in . Templates that include instructions for trend management engine are stored in a database or other storage facility associated with template manager . Templates are based on an application programming interface API such as API in an embodiment. Instructions in templates instruct trend management engine on how to interpret and analyze data display results and collect information in an embodiment. These instructions are interpreted by trend management engine .

An IO logic is coupled to IO interface . IO logic is configured to parse and distribute incoming data and prepare output for sending via IO interface according to an embodiment. IO logic may implement one or more communications protocols. IO logic is coupled to a data collection logic a template API logic and a presentation logic in an embodiment. IO logic is also coupled to a database in an embodiment.

A data collection logic template API logic an analysis logic and presentation logic are all coupled to database in an embodiment. Database may include template data such as template data and user data such as user data in an embodiment. IO logic data collection logic template API logic analysis logic presentation logic and database are all coupled to a processor which executes instructions provided by these elements of trend management system .

In an embodiment event data from a data collection device such television D is received as input to trend management engine via IO interface . IO interface provides input to IO logic which is configured to convert input into data which the trend management engine is capable of utilizing. The resulting data is forwarded to data collection logic . Data collection logic converts the data or normalize the data to conform to a format that is consistent with other data of the same kind that is associated with trend management engine before storing the data in database . For example the data may be location data received from a GPS device. However many GPS devices exist and these devices may report data differently using different variable names time intervals or measurement systems. In an embodiment a standard data format for location data is defined within trend management engine and data collection logic converts all location data to this standard format.

In an embodiment input is a request to view a report associated with previously collected data about a user. Input is converted into a request message and delivered to presentation logic . Presentation logic may retrieve a previously saved report from a table in database and provide the report as output . Presentation logic may include one or more web servers and may provide output via a web interface. In an embodiment the request message is forwarded to analysis logic . Analysis logic uses stored instructions that define a data analysis strategy to generate a report. Analysis logic retrieves these instructions from templates or from data storage. Analysis logic interprets and executes the instructions based on stored routines that are associated with the instructions. For example a stored routine may define a general regression analysis and possible variables. The stored instructions may provide the variables and options required to perform a specific regression analysis. Analysis logic may employ external data analysis tools such as Apache Hadoop to facilitate the analysis of large amounts of data.

The instructions that define a data analysis strategy are stored in database or other storage medium in an embodiment. The instructions that define the data analysis strategy may be stored in a storage system associated with template manager in the form of a template. Analysis logic receives instructions from a template via template API logic . These instructions may be stored in database or may be cached. Alternatively instructions may be requested as needed from template manager .

In an embodiment template API logic is configured to generate instructions for analysis logic by parsing commands or tags stored in templates. These commands or tags may be based on a markup language such as XML or may include program code based on a programming language such as PHP Perl C or any other programming language.

In an embodiment input includes a request to register a custom template with trend management engine . Template API logic receives the data from this request via IO logic . Template API logic validates the template associated with the request based on security criteria or other criteria such as error checking and data availability criteria. Once the template is validated template specific metadata such as version information and data requirements may be stored in the template data table and the template may be stored in template manager . In an embodiment input includes a request to register a user or user specific data with trend management engine . Data collection logic stores this data in the user data table of database .

In an embodiment a template may include instructions for a data collection device. For example a template may require data to be entered manually using a smartphone such as smartphone K. These instructions are stored in template data table . When a request to associate that template with a particular device is received template API logic may send a request to the device with the instructions to generate a data entry interface. The device may natively support these instructions or may require an application compatible with template management engine to be installed in order to support the instructions.

A data collection device is a device that collects information associated with one or more users of the device. For example personal gaming system A gaming console or controller E may collect information about when a user plays a game high score information duration of play and other information. Computer B may collect manual entry data web surfing habits telephone including Voice over IP or email tracking information and other application information. GPS device C may collect geo location data and associate this location data with restaurants stores and other points of interest. In an embodiment GPS device C is a smartphone such as an iPhone. Television D or a set top box digital video recorder DVR audio player remote control or other home entertainment device may track media viewing listening and interaction habits. For example a set top box may keep track of television channels watched and Television D may track power consumption and viewing time. Camera F may keep track of pictures and videos taken location data and any information entered manually by the user of the camera F. Motion tracking device G such as a Fitbit may track movement information. Smart battery system H may track power consumption. Personal digital assistant PDA I may track application usage calendar items location information and more. Personal audio player J or another type of personal media player such as a personal video player may track the amount of time spent listening to a particular song or watching a particular movie. Data collection devices that are virtual data collection devices are not hardware specific but may be associated with a website such as Facebook or Linkedin. These data collection devices may track usage of the website messaging information and other statistics associated with the functionality of the website. A telephone or mobile phone such as smart phone K may track location information manually entered information application specific information contact information messaging information such as texting data email data ambient light data movement data and other information. All of these data collection devices may collect timestamp data. Although a variety of data collection devices have been listed to convey the diversity of the types of data collection devices that may be used any data collection device may be used in conjunction with trend management engine and the examples listed herein are not limiting examples. For example healthcare monitoring devices automobile sensors household electronics smart grid systems toys and electronic book readers all may collect data and therefore are data collection devices.

In an embodiment a data collection device is registered with trend management engine . To register a data collection device with trend management system is to make trend management system aware of the device. Each data collection device that is registered with the personal trend management system is associated with one or more event categories which define the type of events generated by the data collection device. The registration process may include for example providing a unique device identifier associated with the data collection device to trend management system . A mapping between the device and the event categories for which the device is capable of collecting data may be stored in in a device event matrix. In addition a mapping between the device and the user requesting the device registration may be stored in the form of a device identifier to user identifier record in a database table such as user data table . A user ID representing a user may be associated with more than one device in an embodiment.

According to one embodiment data collection devices generate store and report events. Events as used herein represent state information associated with time information such as one or more time stamps. For example the state of being at a particular place at a particular time may be recorded as an event. Being at the same place at a different time may be recorded as another event. Thus change only in time is enough to generate an event. However a change in state may also generate an event. For example moving a game controller from left to right may cause an accelerometer within the controller to record an event. The event may be described by the change in movement from one direction to another. As another example having a particular heart rate at a particular time may be considered an event.

The same type of information in the same event category may be recorded by multiple data collection devices. For example a smartphone and a GPS device may each track location data. One device may be more trusted than the other but the results of these devices may also be compared to detect discrepancies between the devices and a report that indicates the discrepancies may be generated.

Time stamps may be in the form of immediate time stamps associated with individual events as discussed above. In another embodiment time stamps may represent ranges of time. For example it may be cumbersome to measure each falling raindrop that falls in a collection and measurement system as a separate event. However one minute intervals may be marked by time stamps and the delta of the rain volume from one minute to the next may be reported with the time stamp. Thus a time stamp may represent multiple actual events but be associated with a single set of actual events.

Event data may be stored locally on a data collection device before it is transferred to trend management engine . For example the data collection device may have volatile or non volatile memory that is used to store data that is collected over a period of time. Later when the data collection device becomes connected to a network such as network data collection device may upload event data to remote storage such as database . In an embodiment event data is uploaded to a third party storage system and trend management system is configured to retrieve the event data from the third party system by using the registration information provided by the user of the data collection device.

Trend management engine collects event data provided by data collection devices and provides a useful analysis of that data. Trend management engine may be configured to perform any type of analysis technique and may be used to identify trends associated with events users or data collection devices.

Event data received by trend management engine may be grouped into event categories. One event category for example may be location events since more than one data collection device may be capable of recording location events. This allows trend management engine to perform a data analysis requiring location information using any data in the location events event category rather than requiring that the events be sent from a particular type or model of device. In addition a pecking order may be configured to specify which set of events comes from the most trusted data collection device. For example one heart rate monitor may be known to provide more accurate data than another. Thus if both devices store events in a heart rate event category the more accurate events will be used for any time span for which it is available.

Data analysis techniques may include data grouping based on time stamps trend analysis using regression techniques time series analysis or any other analysis method. Trend data may be provided to users to help them predict a level of success associated with the data collected by one or more data collection devices. For example if a user has a goal of creating a calorie deficit in order to lose weight that user may track calorie intake using an iPhone application and calorie burning using a Fitbit. A regression analysis of events generated by these devices over time will allow the user to determine when or if he will meet his weight loss goal.

Trend management engine provides a useful presentation of data collected from data collection devices. Some event data may be perceived in a way that misinforms the user when presented without careful consideration to the context surrounding the event data and the event category in which the event data falls. For example a user may average eight hours of sleep per night. At first glance it may appear that this user requires no changes in his sleep habits. However a closer look may reveal that the user sleeps four hours per night and twelve hours per night on alternating days. By presenting the data in a way that highlights the alternating sleep patterns such as a line chart the user may be able to identify patterns in his sleep.

Using time stamps trend management engine can determine which events occurred within the same time span. For example a series of events that include location information may be associated with a set of timestamps that occurred within a particular period of time. Another set of events may also be associated with a set of timestamps that occurred within the same period of time. These sets of time stamps although not necessarily identical to one another are said to match because they occur within the same time period. Matching events based on time stamps allows an analysis to be performed based on the occurrence of an event rather than continually performing an analysis of data over time. For example certain events may only be meaningful when they occur at a particular place. A triggering event may include location information that falls within one or more geographic perimeters or geo fences. Other events such as those that track the calorie intake for a user may then be matched with particular places to determine which places are associated with higher calorie intake. Alternatively if calorie intake meets a certain threshold over a particular period of time location events may be matched to that period of time to determine the locations associated with unhealthy behavior.

Data analysis output such as output may convey information relating to one or more trends. A trend may show the direction in which data has moved is moving or is expected to move. For example a graph showing data points associated with events occurring over time is information relating to a trend. A trend includes any tendencies exhibited by data. Therefore a map that shows that particular events tend to occur in particular places conveys information relating to a trend. The map need not necessarily include a trend analysis but the map may allow a user to determine whether or not a tendency exists in the data. Output may be in the form of graphs charts textual data video or other multimedia format or even executable instructions. Output may be sent to a general purpose computer data collection device or any other device that is capable of displaying output such as an Internet enabled television.

Trend management engine may send instructions to a data collection device. For example upon determining that a particular type of data is required trend management engine may instruct a data collection device to begin collecting the required events. In an embodiment trend management engine determines that a manual data entry interface is required in order to collect the desired events. For example a user may indicate that he wishes to track his cigarette smoking habit. Trend management engine may instruct smartphone K to generate a data entry interface that includes a button which when pressed sends an event to trend management engine indicating that the user has smoked a cigarette. The creation of manual data entry interfaces and their components such as buttons forms and image upload components may be facilitated by an application residing on smartphone K in an embodiment. The application may keep track of event data entered manually even if smartphone K is not connected to network . Event data may be stored locally at smartphone K and may be uploaded to trend management engine when connectivity is available. This process is known as syncing the data collection device with trend management engine . In an embodiment the instructions for generating a data entry interface are sent to a web browser residing on the data collection device in the form of HTML hypertext markup language or another browser enabled language.

In an embodiment trend management engine includes a device event matrix that maps data collection devices to one or more capabilities that describe information about the device including the event categories of events that the device is capable of tracking. The device event matrix stores a conservation metric that is associated with an event category or with an event category to device mapping. The conservation metric represents how important it is to disable the event tracking functionality associated with a particular event category when that event category is not in use. For example GPS based location tracking when enabled may significantly decrease the battery life of a smartphone such as smartphone K. Therefore if the data analysis requirements of a particular user do not rely on location data trend management engine may instruct the user s smartphone to disable GPS based location tracking in order to preserve battery life. In an embodiment battery life and resource usage information associated with a data collection device may be sent to trend management engine and this information may be considered when determining whether to instruct the data collection device to disable tracking services for one or more events. The conservation metric may be defined by the user through a user interface in an embodiment. In an embodiment conservation logic may be implemented using an application that is local to the data collection device.

Templates may be used to store instructions that define one or more data analysis strategies. Instructions may be stored in XML format or any other language or format understood by API . In an embodiment templates are native to trend management engine and API is not required for interpreting or converting instructions in templates. In an embodiment API converts instructions that are stored in a template into instructions that may be executed by trend management engine . Templates may be stored in database . Templates are stored in template manager which includes a database for storing templates and a template management system for managing requests by third parties to make templates available to trend management engine .

The instructions stored in each template may include the type of analysis which variables to use how to display the data and time intervals to use. For example a template may include instructions that specify that a form of regression analysis is to be used for analyzing heart rate and location events that have occurred over the last year and that a scatter plot with a regression line is to be displayed. For example a simple template may include the following instructions 

These instructions direct trend management engine to perform a regression analysis of heart rate data over 365 days. The predictor variable is the day of the year from to and only heart rate events generated at the user s Home location are used in the analysis. A scatter plot with an optional trend line is generated. The day of the year may be used as a predictor for example because the user may wish to see if the time of year is an indicator of his heart rate at home. Trend management engine performs the regression analysis as instructed by the template and generates a useful presentation of the analysis. A user may notice a trend based on this presentation such as a monthly trend which may be associated with the user s payday.

The instructions may also include instructions for generating manual data entry interfaces and their components such as buttons forms and image upload components. For example a button may be defined in XML by a button name and a variable associated with the button along with an action as follows . Actions may be mapped to standard actions that are stored as template data at trend management system and recognized by trend management engine as safe actions in an embodiment. In an embodiment actions may be defined within a template using a programming language. For example an increment function may be defined as follows cigarette cigarette .

A template may have user specific requirements. For example a user may want to track a particular type of event but only when that event occurs at one or more particular locations. A template may include references to standard geo location labels such as geo home or geo work. In an embodiment users may be able to select as many locations as they desire and store these locations in the user data table . Users may associate particular locations with templates to make those locations available to the chosen templates. In an embodiment a template may instruct trend management engine to perform a particular analysis based on all locations associated with that template. A template may also require upon a user request to use the template that additional locations be configured by the user.

In an embodiment locations may be configured by visiting a location with a GPS device and entering or selecting a name for the location within a location management application or other interface on the GPS device. In another embodiment locations may be configured by providing an address of the location to trend management system which may be converted into geo location data that is compatible with data generated by GPS devices. In an embodiment a map interface on a website for example is presented to the user who may draw a perimeter around a geographic area on the map and select a name for the location encompassed by the perimeter.

Templates may require additional configuration of variables by users which may be stored in database . For example a template designed to help a user track how many books the user has read may require the user to define a goal. The output associated with the template may be a line graph that shows the average number of books read each month along with a line that represents the goal amount. Success may be determined based on a planned vs. actual analysis. For example the template may congratulate the user or generate a score for the user based on how close the user is to reading the goal number of books.

A template may include logic that defines preferred data collection devices. For example a template may express a preference for a more accurate GPS device over a less accurate one but may provide an analysis based on the events gathered from the less accurate GPS device if that is the only data available. In addition different strategies may be employed depending on which data collection devices are available.

In an embodiment each template causes trend management engine to produce output in the form of a single score that measures success associated with that template. This output is in addition to other output produced. Using this success metric users may quickly look at the various trends they are tracking through the use of templates and determine the level of success they are having with respect to each template.

Users may select templates to associate with user accounts via a template management interface. In an embodiment users may purchase templates. Templates may be suggested to users based on the data collection devices that the user has registered with trend management system . For example if a user has registered a GPS device and a Facebook account with trend management system then a recommendation may be provided to the user for a template that includes a strategy for monitoring Facebook usage at work. In an embodiment users may recommend templates and data collection devices to one another.

Templates may be unavailable to users that do not have the requisite data collection device s . For example a user may not be able to associate a particular template with his account if that template requires a GPS device that the user has not registered with trend management system . In addition users may designate certain event categories as off limits. For example a user may not wish to have his location information tracked. Removing event categories from consideration may render templates requiring events associated with those event categories unavailable to the user. As users make requisite events and devices available through user settings and registration of new devices additional templates may be made available to the user. For example if a user registers a heart rate monitor a template that was previously unavailable to that user may be made available based on the registration of the new device.

Templates may assist trend management engine with efforts to conserve battery life and other resources associated with data collection devices. If no templates require certain data GPS data for example then it may be desirable to avoid collecting that data. For example constant collection of GPS data may run the battery of a smartphone down. Alternatively it may be desirable to collect the data for other reasons. In an embodiment the way the data is stored may be changed. For example the data may be stored in a compressed for to conserve storage space. The data may be stored remotely or may be uploaded only when the data collection device is plugged in if network uploads cause rapid battery depletion. It may be desirable to collect less data under certain circumstances. For example a data collection device may be instructed to collect GPS events every 10 minutes instead of every 1 minute if that particular device is particularly vulnerable to battery depletion.

In an embodiment when trend management engine determines that a template is not dependent on a particular set of data it may instruct a data collection device to perform one of the following a stop reporting the data b stop collecting the data c stop storing the data d report the data using a technique other than a default technique for reporting the data e collect the data using a technique other than a default technique for collecting the data f store the data using a technique other than the default technique for storing the data.

A user may place templates into categories in order to generate a composite report for that category. For example the template associated with template node may be a template that defines an analysis strategy associated with cardiovascular exercise performed by the user. Such a template may be reliant on events generated by exercise machines such as elliptical runners exercise bicycles and treadmills. The template associated with template node may define a strategy for reporting weight training exercises. This template may be reliant on manually entered events or events generated by electronic weight lifting machines. Each of these templates are related to exercise and thus may be placed under the exercise trend category . In an embodiment templates may be placed in multiple trend categories.

Each template includes instructions for generating a success score associated with that template. A trend category metric is generated for each category based on the success scores associated with its child nodes. In an embodiment a weight is defined for each child node at the parent node. For example for exercise node the user may assign a weight of 60 to template node and a weight of 40 to template node . Thus the score of template has a more significant effect on the trend category metric for exercise . A template that is assigned to multiple categories may contribute different metrics or different weights to each category with which it is associated.

Exercise and nutrition are both concepts related to the human body. Thus exercise node and nutrition node are child nodes of body node and each are assigned a weight with respect to body node . For example for body node the user may assign a weight of 45 to exercise node and a weight of 55 to nutrition node .

The embodiment shown in divides the hierarchy into three main categories body mind and heart . A large portion of the data people track about themselves may fall into one of these three categories and generating a composite score for each of these categories allows users to determine if any of these categories is off balance. For example if a user receives a composite score of 90 out of a possible 100 points for each of body node and mind node but a composite score of 30 out of a possible 100 points for heart node that user will be alerted to the possibility that he needs to focus on his relationship building activities. For example the template associated with template node may track calls that the user has made to the people in his favorites list on his mobile phone. The user may recognize this deficiency by looking for low scores in his hierarchy. In an embodiment a hierarchy visualization interface may visually indicate low performing nodes by highlighting them or displaying them using a particular color such as red. High performing nodes may be displayed in green while nodes in danger of failing or with a trend toward failure may be displayed in yellow or orange.

In an embodiment users may share event information output associated with particular templates and trend hierarchy information with one another. Users share information based on the type of events associated with the particular events the data collection device used to collect the particular events the data collection device type of the data collection device used to collect the particular events a template that includes one or more data analysis strategies used to generate the particular events or the time at which the particular events were stored.

A user may send a request to associate a data collection device with his profile. The user may then request that some or all of the events associated with the data collection device be made available to another user. For example the user may request that all location events be shared with the second user. The user may also request that all events occurring within a specific range of time or events associated with a particular template be shared with the second user. Users may also explicitly exclude sharing of events associated with a particular device.

In an embodiment a first user can alter the data associated with a second user. For example a template may require user input associated with another person. This may be particularly true with templates that track relationship related event such as how often a husband and wife go on a date with one another. If the husband forgets to track the date the wife may choose to manually enter the event on his behalf if such access is granted to her.

Users may connect to other users within the system and create sharing preferences based on association groups or degrees of separation. Friends may also be part of a shared trend hierarchy or trend group. These users may be tracking the same information and have the same devices. A group goal may be set with each user representing a node in the trend hierarchy. A group manager may set weights associated with each user and may override weights set by individuals for the purpose of that hierarchy. This allows a member of the group hierarchy to track his own performance using one weighting strategy while the group manager can create a group specific weighting strategy. This may be particularly useful when each user contributes more than one node to the group hierarchy.

In an embodiment a request is received to associate a first template with a first user. The template includes instructions that define one or more data analysis strategies. Data associated with a data collection device is received. This data includes one or more events associated with the first user. The data also includes one or more time stamps that are associated with the events. For example the data may include location events that state the latitude and longitude of the data collection device at a particular time. Based on a strategy defined in the template and the data received from the data collection device a result that conveys information relating to one or more trends involving the events is generated. For example a bar chart that compares time spent at a first location with time spent at a second location may be generated.

In an embodiment the template includes user customizable parameters. For example a user may define the latitude and longitude associated with the first location. That location may be expanded by defining a perimeter. For example the amount of time spent at the first location may be based on the location events that occurred within 50 meters of that location.

In an embodiment a second set of events and timestamps associated with the user are received. Some of the first events such as location events are matched with some of the second events such as events that track a user s heart rate based on the time stamps associated with the events. For example the user may have been at the first location for a first period of time. The heart rate events that occurred during the same period of time are considered matching events even if no two events have identical time stamps. Based on this information a report may be generated that shows the user s heart rate while the user is at a particular location even if the heart rate monitor is not location aware.

According to one embodiment the techniques described herein are implemented by one or more special purpose computing devices. The special purpose computing devices may be hard wired to perform the techniques or may include digital electronic devices such as one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs or field programmable gate arrays FPGAs that are persistently programmed to perform the techniques or may include one or more general purpose hardware processors programmed to perform the techniques pursuant to program instructions in firmware memory other storage or a combination. Such special purpose computing devices may also combine custom hard wired logic ASICs or FPGAs with custom programming to accomplish the techniques. The special purpose computing devices may be desktop computer systems portable computer systems handheld devices networking devices or any other device that incorporates hard wired and or program logic to implement the techniques.

For example is a block diagram that illustrates a computer system upon which an embodiment of the invention may be implemented. Computer system includes a bus or other communication mechanism for communicating information and a hardware processor coupled with bus for processing information. Hardware processor may be for example a general purpose microprocessor.

Computer system also includes a main memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device coupled to bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by processor . Main memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions to be executed by processor . Such instructions when stored in non transitory storage media accessible to processor render computer system into a special purpose machine that is customized to perform the operations specified in the instructions.

Computer system further includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor . A storage device such as a magnetic disk or optical disk is provided and coupled to bus for storing information and instructions.

Computer system may be coupled via bus to a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT for displaying information to a computer user. An input device including alphanumeric and other keys is coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor . Another type of user input device is cursor control such as a mouse a trackball or cursor direction keys for communicating direction information and command selections to processor and for controlling cursor movement on display . This input device typically has two degrees of freedom in two axes a first axis e.g. x and a second axis e.g. y that allows the device to specify positions in a plane.

Computer system may implement the techniques described herein using customized hard wired logic one or more ASICs or FPGAs firmware and or program logic which in combination with the computer system causes or programs computer system to be a special purpose machine. According to one embodiment the techniques herein are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in main memory . Such instructions may be read into main memory from another storage medium such as storage device . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in main memory causes processor to perform the process steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions.

The term storage media as used herein refers to any non transitory media that store data and or instructions that cause a machine to operation in a specific fashion. Such storage media may comprise non volatile media and or volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as main memory . Common forms of storage media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk solid state drive magnetic tape or any other magnetic data storage medium a CD ROM any other optical data storage medium any physical medium with patterns of holes a RAM a PROM and EPROM a FLASH EPROM NVRAM any other memory chip or cartridge.

Storage media is distinct from but may be used in conjunction with transmission media. Transmission media participates in transferring information between storage media. For example transmission media includes coaxial cables copper wire and fiber optics including the wires that comprise bus . Transmission media can also take the form of acoustic or light waves such as those generated during radio wave and infra red data communications.

Various forms of media may be involved in carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions to processor for execution. For example the instructions may initially be carried on a magnetic disk or solid state drive of a remote computer. The remote computer can load the instructions into its dynamic memory and send the instructions over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to computer system can receive the data on the telephone line and use an infra red transmitter to convert the data to an infra red signal. An infra red detector can receive the data carried in the infra red signal and appropriate circuitry can place the data on bus . Bus carries the data to main memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions. The instructions received by main memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by processor .

Computer system also includes a communication interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a two way data communication coupling to a network link that is connected to a local network . For example communication interface may be an integrated services digital network ISDN card cable modem satellite modem or a modem to provide a data communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. As another example communication interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN. Wireless links may also be implemented. In any such implementation communication interface sends and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams representing various types of information.

Network link typically provides data communication through one or more networks to other data devices. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to data equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP in turn provides data communication services through the world wide packet data communication network now commonly referred to as the Internet . Local network and Internet both use electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that carry digital data streams. The signals through the various networks and the signals on network link and through communication interface which carry the digital data to and from computer system are example forms of transmission media.

Computer system can send messages and receive data including program code through the network s network link and communication interface . In the Internet example a server might transmit a requested code for an application program through Internet ISP local network and communication interface .

The received code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution.

In the foregoing specification embodiments of the invention have been described with reference to numerous specific details that may vary from implementation to implementation. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The sole and exclusive indicator of the scope of the invention and what is intended by the applicants to be the scope of the invention is the literal and equivalent scope of the set of claims that issue from this application in the specific form in which such claims issue including any subsequent correction.

