---

title: Method and apparatus for modifying a transition to an altered power state of an electronic device based on accelerometer output
abstract: A method and apparatus are disclosed for modifying a transition to an altered power state of an electronic device based on accelerometer output. The apparatus includes an electronic device having a display and an accelerometer. The apparatus also includes a determination module, and a modification module. The determination module determines an in-use condition of the electronic device based on accelerometer output for the electronic device. The modification module modifies a transition to an altered power state of the electronic device in response to the determination module determining the in-use condition.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09122735&OS=09122735&RS=09122735
owner: Lenovo (Singapore) PTE. LTD.
number: 09122735
owner_city: Tech Park
owner_country: SG
publication_date: 20100430
---
The subject matter disclosed herein relates to transitioning to an altered power state of electronic devices and more particularly relates to modifying a transition to an altered power state of an electronic device based on accelerometer output.

The capabilities of portable electronic devices continue to increase. A user may typically read books documents or articles and view videos on a portable electronic device such as an eBook reader a mobile phone a tablet computer and the like. While a user reads a page or views a video clip the portable electronic device may not receive user input for an extended period of time. Often the automatic timer to dim turn off the display or to enter a standby state elapses while the user is using the portable electronic device producing an undesired result that interrupts the user s experience.

From the foregoing discussion inventors herein have identified a need for a method and apparatus that modifies a transition to an altered power state of an electronic device. Beneficially such a method and apparatus would modify the transition to the altered power state based on accelerometer output.

The embodiments of the present disclosure have been developed in response to the present state of the art and in particular in response to the problems and needs in the art that have not yet been fully solved by currently available electronic devices. Accordingly the embodiments have been developed to provide a method and apparatus for modifying a transition to an altered power state of an electronic device that overcome many or all of the above discussed shortcomings in the art.

The apparatus for modifying a transition to an altered power state of an electronic device based on accelerometer output includes an electronic device having a display and an accelerometer. The apparatus also includes a determination module and a modification module. The determination module determines an in use condition of the electronic device based on accelerometer output for the electronic device. The modification module modifies a transition to an altered power state of the electronic device in response to the determination module determining the in use condition.

In a further embodiment the determination module monitors changes in one or more accelerometer values of the accelerometer output over a period of time. The determination module determines the in use condition based on the changes in the one or more accelerometer values over the period of time. In a further embodiment the determination module determines the in use condition in response to determining that the changes in the one or more accelerometer values correspond with an in use definition that is indicative of a user using the electronic device.

In one embodiment the determination module further includes a filtering module filtering particular changes in the one or more accelerometer values out of the accelerometer output. The particular changes may be characteristic of a type of movement of the electronic device and the determination module may determine the in use condition from the filtered accelerometer output.

In one embodiment the apparatus further includes a learning module monitoring user interaction with the electronic device. The learning module may also associate the monitored user interaction with a portion of the accelerometer output and adapt an in use definition based on the association of the monitored user interaction with the portion of the accelerometer output.

In one embodiment the modification module extends time of one or more timers associated with the transition to the altered power state of the electronic device in response to the determination module determining the in use condition. In certain embodiments the altered power state of the electronic device includes one or more of a quiesced state a low power state a high power state a state in which one or more operations of the electronic device are operating at a high capacity and a state in which one or more operations of the electronic device are one or more of suspended and operating at a reduced capacity. In one embodiment the electronic device includes one of a portable information handling device mobile phone and a peripheral device.

A method is presented for modifying a transition to an altered power state of an electronic device based on accelerometer output. In one embodiment the method includes the steps to carry out the functions of the apparatus.

A computer program product is also presented for modifying a transition to an altered power state of an electronic device based on accelerometer output also with similar steps to carry out the functions of the apparatus.

References throughout this specification to features advantages or similar language do not imply that all of the features and advantages may be realized in any single embodiment. Rather language referring to the features and advantages is understood to mean that a specific feature advantage or characteristic is included in at least one embodiment. Thus discussion of the features and advantages and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment.

Furthermore the described features advantages and characteristics of the embodiments may be combined in any suitable manner. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize that the embodiments may be practiced without one or more of the specific features or advantages of a particular embodiment. In other instances additional features and advantages may be recognized in certain embodiments that may not be present in all embodiments.

These features and advantages of the embodiments will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or may be learned by the practice of the embodiments as set forth hereinafter.

Many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. Modules may include hardware circuits such as one or more processors with memory Very Large Scale Integration VLSI circuits gate arrays programmable logic and or discrete components. The hardware circuits may perform logic functions execute computer readable programs stored on tangible storage devices and or execute programmed functions. Modules may also include a computer readable storage medium comprising a computer readable program stored on a tangible storage device that performs a function when executed by a hardware circuits such as a processor microcontroller or the like.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment in an embodiment and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment but mean one or more but not all embodiments unless expressly specified otherwise. The terms including comprising having and variations thereof mean including but not limited to unless expressly specified otherwise. An enumerated listing of items does not imply that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive unless expressly specified otherwise. The terms a an and the also refer to one or more unless expressly specified otherwise.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics of the embodiments may be combined in any suitable manner. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of programming software modules user selections network transactions database queries database structures hardware modules hardware circuits hardware chips etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that embodiments may be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials and so forth. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of an embodiment.

The processor memory IO module graphics module display module BIOS module network module USB module audio module PCIe module and storage module referred to herein as components may be fabricated of semiconductor gates on one or more semiconductor substrates. Each semiconductor substrate may be packaged in one or more semiconductor devices mounted on circuit cards. Connections between the components may be through semiconductor metal layers substrate to substrate wiring circuit card traces and or wires connecting the semiconductor devices.

The memory stores computer readable programs. The processor executes the computer readable programs as is well known to those skilled in the art. The computer readable programs may be tangibly stored in the storage module . The storage module may comprise at least one Solid State Device SSD . In addition the storage module may include a hard disk drive an optical storage device a holographic storage device a micromechanical storage device or the like.

The processor may include integrated cache to reduce the average time to access memory . The integrated cache may store copies of instructions and data from the most frequently used memory locations. The processor may communicate with the memory and the graphic module .

In addition the processor may communicate with the IO module . The IO module may support and communicate with the BIOS module the network module the PCIe module and the storage module .

The PCIe module may communicate with the IO module for transferring data or power to peripheral devices. The PCIe module may include a PCIe bus for attaching the peripheral devices. The PCIe bus can logically connect several peripheral devices over the same set of connections. The peripherals may be selected from a printer a joystick a scanner or the like. The PCI module may also comprise an expansion card as is well known to those skilled in the art.

The BIOS module may communicate instructions through the IO module to boot the computing device so that computer readable software instructions stored on the storage module can load execute and assume control of the computing device . Alternatively the BIOS module may comprise a coded program embedded on a chipset that recognizes and controls various devices that make up the computing device .

The network module may communicate with the IO module to allow the computing device to communicate with other devices over a network. The devices may include routers bridges computers printers and the like.

The display module may communicate with the graphic module to display information as will be described hereafter. The display module may be a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD monitor or the like.

The USB module may communicate with one or more USB compatible devices over a USB bus. The audio module may generate an audio output.

In one embodiment each module comprises a computer readable storage medium comprising a computer readable program stored on a tangible storage device.

The accelerometer measures physical acceleration magnitude and direction position and or shock of the electronic device . The accelerometer may output an acceleration signature including acceleration measurements accelerometer values at a point in time and or over a time period changes in accelerometer values and the like. In one embodiment the accelerometer output includes graphical information or may be converted into graphical information such as the graphical information depicted in which depict embodiments of example accelerometer output. show gravitational acceleration g over time in seconds for an x axis a y axis and a z axis . One of ordinary skill in the art realizes that accelerometer output may exist in various forms.

Referring back to a program or application on the electronic device may access the accelerometer output through an application programming interface API or other interface. In another embodiment the accelerometer output is accessed directly in hardware. In one embodiment an entity such as an operating system an application a program and or a utility running on the electronic device uses accelerometer output during operation. For example a Smartphone operating system may use accelerometer output to detect when the user tilts or turns the Smartphone and in response the operating system may rotate the picture on the display such that the picture appears oriented correctly to the user.

A user may read books documents or articles and view videos on certain electronic devices such as eBook readers Smartphones tablet computers and the like. Therefore an electronic device may still be in use even though it may not frequently receive user input. Furthermore an electronic device may be configured to dim or turn off its display or to enter a standby state if the electronic device has not received user input for a certain period of time the electronic device assuming that it is not being used due to lack of user input. As a result the electronic device may dim turn off its display power off or enter a standby state producing an undesired result that interrupts the user s experience.

The power state transition modifier determines using accelerometer output that the user may still be using the electronic device and modifies the timing of the transition of the electronic device into an altered power state. An altered power state includes a state in which the electronic device performs operations related to power savings and or operates with certain operations suspended or at a reduced capacity. The altered power state may include but is not limited to a standby state a quiesced state a low power state a hibernate state the electronic device operating with a dimmed or inactive display the electronic device powered off and the electronic device operating a screensaver. In one embodiment an altered power state includes a high power state and or a state in which one or more operations of the electronic device are operating at a high capacity.

A transition into an altered power stated is an action of the electronic device entering into the altered power state and or the signal cue or initiator causing the electronic device to enter the altered power state. For example a transition into an altered power state by an electronic device may include but is not limited to the electronic device suspending certain operations beginning operation at a reduced capacity dimming or shutting down a display powering off initiating a screensaver and entering a low power state such as a standby state a quiesced state hibernate state. In one embodiment a transition to an altered power state includes the electronic device transitioning to a higher power state with increased functionality and or capacity.

Furthermore a transition to an altered power state may be controlled and or initiated by one or more altered power state timers of the electronic device . These altered power state timers may be part of the operating system of the electronic device an application or utility running on the electronic device and the like. An altered power state timer may track a length of time without a user input and if the length of time exceeds a predetermined threshold the altered power state timer may signal the electronic device to transition to an altered power state. For example an operating system of an electronic device may dim the display of the electronic device in response to a signal from an altered power state timer detecting that a user has not entered input for a predetermined time period.

Using the accelerometer output the power state transition modifier may determine that the electronic device is in use even if it is not receiving and or has not received user input for a predetermined time period. Specifically when a user is holding an electronic device the accelerometer output may indicate slight variations in accelerometer values due to small motions by the user s hands or body. Furthermore this accelerometer output may be distinct from accelerometer output associated with the electronic device lying on a desk or inside a user s bag or pocket while the user is walking.

In addition shows that large accelerometer value changes may occur when transitioning between each state. shows large accelerometer value spikes between the first time period and the second time period when the user picks up the electronic device from the desk and begins holding the electronic device for use.

Referring now to in addition to the power state transition modifier may determine an in use condition based on accelerometer output. An in use condition is a condition state and or status of an electronic device determined from accelerometer output indicative of a user using the electronic device . The in use condition indicates that a user may be using the device and or that a transition to an altered power state is not desirable at a particular moment in time. The power state transition modifier may determine the in use condition from accelerometer output including an accelerometer signature indicative of the user using the electronic device such as the accelerometer values in the accelerometer output for the second time period in .

The power state transition modifier may also modify behavior of the electronic device to delay or deactivate the transition to an altered power state in response to determining an in use condition. Thus a user who is performing an activity on the portable electronic not requiring frequent user input such as reading text or watching video is sparred the interruption of a screen saver standby mode entry or power off.

The power state transition modifier may be embodied as software hardware or a combination of hardware and software. In one embodiment the power state transition modifier includes software code residing on a storage module of the electronic device . The power state transition modifier may be an application or utility that interfaces with the operating system of the electronic device . Furthermore the power state transition modifier reads receives references and or obtains accelerometer output from the accelerometer . The power state transition modifier may communicate with the accelerometer and or is coupled to the accelerometer . In one embodiment the power state transition modifier references accelerometer output through a software API. In another embodiment the power state transition modifier is connected to the accelerometer in hardware.

The determination module determines an in use condition of an electronic device based on accelerometer output for the electronic device . The electronic device may be a electronic device such as the electronic device depicted in and may include a portable computing device and or an information handling device such as a touch device a personal desktop assistant PDA a tablet computer an eBook reader a mobile phone a Smartphone and the like. The electronic device may also be a peripheral device or device that is dependent on and or operating under control of another computing device. Examples of a peripheral device include but are not limited to a mouse a webcam a microphone a storage drive and the like. Furthermore the electronic device may include an accelerometer providing accelerometer output measuring acceleration of the electronic device .

As stated above the accelerometer output may comprise an acceleration signature including acceleration measurements accelerometer values at a point in time and or over a time period acceleration changes and the like. In one embodiment the determination module monitors changes and or patterns in accelerometer values of the accelerometer output over a period of time and determines the in use condition based on changes and or patterns in the accelerometer values over the period of time. For example the determination module may determine that changes in accelerometer values for one or more dimensions e.g. on the X Y or Z axes lie within a predetermined range for a predetermined amount of time and or match or approximate a predetermined accelerometer output signature indicating an in use condition. For example the determination module may determine an in use condition when accelerometer values have variations of between 0.05 and 0.1 g for at least three seconds. In another example the determination module may determine an in use condition when accelerometer values have a predetermined number of variations in a predetermined range for a predetermined amount of time.

The determination module may reference in use condition specifications in one or more in use definitions. In one embodiment the determination module determines the in use condition in response to determining that the changes and or patterns in the accelerometer values correspond with an in use definition. An in use definition is a predefined accelerometer output signature that may be indicative of a user using the electronic device and may include but not be limited to an accelerometer value range accelerometer value pattern accelerometer value change and time specification and accelerometer output wave pattern. In one embodiment the determination module stores and or has access to a plurality of in use definitions with varying in use specifications and signatures. The determination module may determine an in use condition if the accelerometer output meets one or more of the plurality of in use definitions. In one embodiment the determination module classifies in use definitions. For example an in use definition may be classified by a type of use such as handheld use handheld while walking use and the like. The user in one embodiment may save edit classify and delete in use definitions.

In one embodiment a user may adjust the sensitivity of the determination module . For example the user may adjust the determination module to narrow the in use definition or decrease the number of in use definition possibilities. As a result the determination module may require accelerometer output that more closely approximates a certain accelerometer output signature. In another example the user may broaden the in use definition resulting in a wider range of accelerometer output qualifying as an in use condition.

The determination module may continually monitor the accelerometer output while the electronic device is powered on. In another embodiment the determination module begins monitoring the accelerometer output in response to one or more altered power state timers elapsing or approaching a predetermined time period without user input when the altered power state timer would signal for a transition to an altered power state.

The modification module modifies a transition to an altered power state of the electronic device in response to the determination module determining the in use condition. In one embodiment the determination module signals the modification module to modify the transition. In certain embodiments the determination module signals the modification module to modify the transition and specifies a modification action. The modification action is the action the modification module takes to modify the transition to an altered power state. In one embodiment a modification action includes extending time of one or more altered power state timers the timers associated with the transition to the altered power state of the electronic device in response to the determination module determining the in use condition. In another embodiment the modification action includes turning off the altered power state timers. In certain embodiments the modification module performs a modification action in response to both the determination module determining the in use condition and the electronic device attempting to perform an altered state transition.

In certain embodiments the modification action depends on the classification of the in use definition from the determination module . For example if the determined in use state is handheld use the modification module may deactivate the altered power state timers while if the determined in use state is handheld while walking use the modification module may extend the altered power state timers.

The filtering module filters particular changes in the one or more accelerometer values out of the accelerometer output. The particular changes may be characteristic of a type of movement of the electronic device . The determination module may then determine the in use condition from the filtered accelerometer output. In one embodiment a type of movement may include a walking movement and the filtering module may filter out changes in accelerometer values caused by the walking movement. The determination module may then determine whether the filtered accelerometer output matches an in use definition. For example a user may be walking and viewing a video on an electronic device . The accelerometer output would include accelerometer values reflective of both kinds of movement and the filtering module may isolate one or more types of movement. A type of movement may also be movement caused by riding in an automobile or train. The filtering module may filter out the changes in the accelerometer output caused by riding in the automobile or train so that the determination module may determine whether the filtered accelerometer output fulfills an in use definition.

The learning module adapts existing in use definitions or creates new in use definitions to allow for more accurate recognition of when a user is actually using the electronic device . Furthermore the learning module may also allow a user to customize in use definitions. The learning module may monitor user interaction with the electronic device and associate user interaction with a portion of accelerometer output including a particular accelerometer output signature. For example if the learning module detects user interaction with the electronic device the learning module may associate the user interaction with an accelerometer output signature during the time period of the user interaction. The learning module may adapt an in use definition or create a new in use definition based on this association. For example if a user interacts with the electronic device and the accelerometer output includes a particular accelerometer signature a similar accelerometer signature in the future may also indicate that the user is using the electronic device . Therefore the learning module may include the accelerometer signature associated with the time period during the user interaction with in an in use definition.

User interaction may include user input such as a mouse click keystroke touch screen reading and the like. In one embodiment the learning module may further record the monitored user interaction including information about the user interaction such as the type of user interaction and whether the user interaction occurred in response to an altered state transition. For example if a user must continually perform user input to deactivate a screen saver the learning module may record the fact that the user input was immediately after the electronic device activated the screen saver a transition to an altered power state . If the number of recorded user inputs after a screen saver activates reaches a threshold and the accelerometer output signatures proximate to the user inputs are similar the learning module may include the accelerometer output signature associated with the user inputs in an in use definition.

In one embodiment the learning module may allow a user to associate an accelerometer output signature with an in use condition. In one embodiment a user may record an accelerometer output signature to be used as an in use definition. For example a user may signal the learning module to begin recording the user may handle the electronic device in a manner that the user wants the electronic device to consider as in use and the user may signal the learning module when this learning period is over. Therefore a user may customize the in use definitions according to the user s typical movements while using the electronic device .

The schematic flow chart diagrams that follow are generally set forth as logical flow chart diagrams. As such the depicted order and labeled steps are indicative of one embodiment of the presented method. Other steps and methods may be conceived that are equivalent in function logic or effect to one or more steps or portions thereof of the illustrated method. Additionally the format and symbols employed are provided to explain the logical steps of the method and are understood not to limit the scope of the method. Although various arrow types and line types may be employed in the flow chart diagrams they are understood not to limit the scope of the corresponding method. Indeed some arrows or other connectors may be used to indicate only the logical flow of the method. For instance an arrow may indicate a waiting or monitoring period of unspecified duration between enumerated steps of the depicted method. Additionally the order in which a particular method occurs may or may not strictly adhere to the order of the corresponding steps shown.

In one embodiment the method is implemented with a computer readable storage medium comprising a computer readable program stored on a tangible memory device. The computer readable storage medium may be integrated into a computer system such as the computing device wherein the computer readable program executed by the processor performs the method .

The method starts and the determination module determines an in use condition of an electronic device based on accelerometer output for the electronic device . The electronic device may be a portable information handling device a mobile phone and the like. Furthermore the determination module may reference obtain or receive the accelerometer output from an accelerometer in the electronic device . Next the modification module modifies a transition to an altered power state of the electronic device in response to the determination module determining the in use condition. The transition to the altered power state may include but is not limited to the electronic device suspending certain operations beginning operation at a reduced capacity dimming or shutting down a display powering off initiating a screensaver and entering a low power state such as a standby state a quiesced state or hibernate state. Then the method ends.

In one embodiment the method is implemented with a computer readable storage medium comprising a computer readable program stored on a tangible memory device. The computer readable storage medium may be integrated into a computer system such as the computing device wherein the computer readable program executed by the processor performs the method .

The method starts and the learning module monitors user interaction with an electronic device . Next the learning module associates the monitored user interaction with a portion of accelerometer output from an accelerometer of the electronic device. The portion of the accelerometer output may include accelerometer output received at a time period proximate to the user interaction. The learning module then adapts an in use definition based on the association of the monitored user interaction with the portion of the accelerometer output. The learning module may also create a new in use definition based on the portion of the accelerometer output. Thus the learning module may customize in use definitions based on accelerometer output signatures associated with times in which the user is more likely to be using the electronic device . Then the method ends.

In one embodiment the method is implemented with a computer readable storage medium comprising a computer readable program stored on a tangible memory device. The computer readable storage medium may be integrated into a computer system such as the computing device wherein the computer readable program executed by the processor performs the method .

The method starts and the determination module monitors changes in accelerometer values or accelerometer output signature of accelerometer output over a period of time. The determination module then determines a condition of whether the changes in the one or more accelerometer values correspond with an in use definition. Specifically the determination module may determine that the changes do not correspond with an in use definition and the determination module continues to monitor changes in accelerometer values. Alternatively the determination module determines that the changes correspond with an in use definition. Next the determination module determines an in use condition of the electronic device . The modification module then modifies a transition to an altered power state of the electronic device in response to the determination module determining the in use condition. The modification module may extend the altered power state timers to delay entry into the altered power state. The modification module may also deactivate the timers. In addition the modification module may extend the altered power state times in response to the electronic device attempting to enter an altered power state. Then the method ends.

Embodiments may be practiced in other specific forms. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

