---

title: Techniques for analyzing data from multiple sources
abstract: Techniques, including systems are methods, for analyzing data from multiple sources are disclosed and suggested herein. In an embodiment, external information from one or more external information sources and internal information from one or more internal information sources is received. The received external information and internal information are stored in one or more data stores that collectively implement one or more ontologies. One or more conditions are applied to the external information and internal information in the one or more data stores to determine a conclusion and the conclusion is provided to a user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08949236&OS=08949236&RS=08949236
owner: Oracle International Corporation
number: 08949236
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100729
---
This application incorporates by reference for all purposes the entire contents of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 714 206 filed Feb. 26 2010.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to policies and more specifically to techniques for enforcement of policies that utilize information from information sources external to an organization.

The operations of an organization such as a business can be quite complex. This complexity creates numerous situations in which activity harmful to the organization can occur. Mistakes and or fraud can cause an organization significant losses and can subject the organization to incur unnecessary risk. For example employee fraud can cause an organization to lose money. Misuse of an organization s manufactured products may result in exposure to lawsuits by consumers as well as adverse effects to the organization s image among the consuming public. Even unintentional data entry errors can cause use of significant resources for correction of both the errors and the effects caused by them. In addition to activities within an organization causing harm or subjecting the organization to risk activities outside of an organization can also have similar effects. The sale of counterfeit goods for instance can cause significant effects on an organization s revenue. Grey market goods goods purchased abroad and sold for less than they could be sold for domestically can have similar effects on an organization s revenue.

Organizations often invest in various tools to detect activities that can be harmful to their business. The data generated and used by the various systems of an organization for example can be monitored in order to quickly detect and address policy violations thereby minimizing the amount of harm caused by such activities. Various techniques are used to detect unauthorized transactions to detect unauthorized access to sensitive data and or systems and generally to ensure that employees and systems are behaving within allowable parameters. Organizations also spend a significant amount of resources monitoring outside activities such as the sale of their goods or of goods purported to be of the organizations on online auction websites and in other places. Outside activities harmful to an organization can be identified and if appropriate stopped through the use of various techniques and legal processes.

While current techniques for monitoring both internal and external activities can be useful various complexities and other factors may limit their effectiveness. The Internet for example is a vast and complex resource comprising information sources provided by numerous entities. An organization that sells goods for instance may have its products counterfeited and sold through numerous online channels. In addition activities that are harmful to an organization may not be entirely internal or external but may involve activities by the organization s employees as well as by others outside the organization such as by vendors.

The following presents a simplified summary of some embodiments of the invention in order to provide a basic understanding of the invention. This summary is not an extensive overview of the invention. It is not intended to identify key critical elements of the invention or to delineate the scope of the invention. Its sole purpose is to present some embodiments of the invention in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Embodiments of the present invention provide techniques for enforcing policies using information provided from a source external to an organization. In one embodiment a computer implemented method of detecting violations of policies of an organization is disclosed. The method in an embodiment is performed under the control of one or more computer systems configured with executable instructions and includes receiving external information from one or more external information sources receiving internal information from one or more internal information sources storing the external information and internal information in one or more data stores that collectively implement one or more ontologies applying one or more conditions to the external information and internal information in the one or more data stores to determine a conclusion and providing the conclusion.

In an embodiment receiving the external information includes receiving first external information from a first external information source receiving second external information from a second external information source and converting at least one of the first external information and second external information to a common format. The method may include converting the received internal information to the common format. In one embodiment the method includes specifying one or more parameters for at least a portion of the external information measuring a rate of external information receipt and when the rate deviates from a range of acceptable values adjusting one or more of the parameters to modify the rate. The one or more external information sources may include a website offering for consumption an item purporting to be from the organization. Applying the one or more conditions to the external information and internal information may include performing a statistical analysis on the external information and internal information to determine one or more statistical measurements relating at least a portion of the external information to at least a portion of the internal information. The one or more conditions in an embodiment are based at least in part on the one or more statistical measurements. The one or more statistical measurements may include a particular statistical measurement that relates one or more transactions of the organization with one or more activities of a vendor of the organization.

In another embodiment a computer readable storage medium having stored thereon instructions for causing at least one computer system to detect policy violations for an organization is provided. In an embodiment the instructions comprise instructions that cause the at least one computer system to receive external information from one or more external information sources instructions that cause the at least one computer system to receive internal information from one or more internal information sources instructions that cause the at least one computer system to store the external information and internal information in one or more data stores that collectively implement one or more ontologies instructions that cause the at least one computer system to apply one or more conditions to the external information and internal information in the one or more data stores to determine a conclusion and instructions that cause the at least one computer system to provide the conclusion.

The instructions that cause the at least one computer system to receive external information may include instructions that cause the at least one computer system to receive first external information from a first external information source instructions that cause the at least one computer system to receive second external information from a second external information source and instructions that cause the at least one computer system to convert at least one of the first external information and second external information to a common format. In addition instructions that cause the at least one computer system to convert the received internal information to the common format may be included. In an embodiment the computer readable storage medium includes instructions that cause the at least one computer system to specify one or more parameters for at least a portion of the external information instructions that cause the at least one computer system to measure a rate of external information receipt and instructions that cause the at least one computer system to when the rate is above a threshold adjust one or more of the parameters to reduce the rate. The one or more external information sources may include a website offering for consumption an item purporting to be from the organization. In addition the instructions that cause the at least one computer system to apply the one more conditions to the external information and internal information may include instructions that cause the at least one computer system to perform a statistical analysis on the external information and internal information to determine one or more statistical measurements relating at least a portion of the external information to at least a portion of the internal information. The one or more conditions may be based at least in part on the one or more statistical measurements. The one or more statistical measurements may include a particular statistical measurement that relates one or more transactions of the organization with one or more activities of a vendor of the organization.

In another embodiment a system for detecting policy violations for an organization is disclosed. The system in an embodiment includes one or more communications devices collectively operable to receive external information from one or more external information sources and internal information from one or more internal information sources a data store that receives at least a portion of the internal information and at least a portion of the external information that transforms said at least a portion of the internal information and said at least a portion of the external information to a common schema that implements an ontology and one or more computing devices. The one or more computing devices in an embodiment are collectively operable to apply one or more conditions to contents of the data store to determine a conclusion the contents including said at least a portion of the internal information and said at least a portion of the external information and provide the conclusion. The ontology may be based at least in part on a plurality of user defined semantic objects and a plurality of user defined relationships among the semantic objects.

In an embodiment the one or more computing devices are operable to specify one or more parameters for receipt of the external information measure a rate of external information receipt when the rate deviates from a range of acceptable values adjust the one or more parameters to modify the rate and cause the one or more communications devices to receive external information according to the adjusted parameters. The one or more information sources may include a website offering for consumption an item purporting to be from the organization. In an embodiment the one or more computing devices are collectively operable to apply the one or more conditions to the external information and internal information by performing a statistical analysis on said at least a portion of the external information and said at least a portion of the internal information to determine one or more statistical measurements relating at least a portion of the external information to at least a portion of the internal information. The one or more conditions may be based at least in part on the one or more statistical measurements. The one or more statistical measurements may include a particular statistical measurement that relates one or more transactions of the organization with one or more activities of a vendor of the organization.

For a fuller understanding of the nature and advantages of the present invention reference should be made to the ensuing detailed description and accompanying drawings.

In the following description various embodiments of the present invention will be described. For purposes of explanation specific configurations and details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. However it will also be apparent to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without the specific details. Furthermore well known features may be omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the embodiment being described.

Bus subsystem provides a mechanism for letting the various components and subsystems of computer system communicate with each other as intended. Although bus subsystem is shown schematically as a single bus alternative embodiments of the bus subsystem may utilize multiple busses.

Network interface subsystem provides an interface to other computer systems networks and portals. Network interface subsystem serves as an interface for receiving data from and transmitting data to other systems from computer system .

User interface input devices may include a keyboard pointing devices such as a mouse trackball touchpad or graphics tablet a scanner a barcode scanner a touch screen incorporated into the display audio input devices such as voice recognition systems microphones and other types of input devices. In general use of the term input device is intended to include all possible types of devices and mechanisms for inputting information to computer system . A user may use an input device to define parameters for analysis that involves data from internal and external sources as discussed below.

User interface output devices may include a display subsystem a printer a fax machine or non visual displays such as audio output devices etc. The display subsystem may be a cathode ray tube CRT a flat panel device such as a liquid crystal display LCD or a projection device. In general use of the term output device is intended to include all possible types of devices and mechanisms for outputting information from computer system . Results of analyzing both internal and external data and other information relevant to the user s use of embodiments of the present invention may be output to the user via an output device.

Storage subsystem provides a computer readable medium for storing the basic programming and data constructs that provide the functionality of the present invention. Software programs code modules instructions that when executed by a processor provide the functionality of the present invention may be stored in storage subsystem . These software modules or instructions may be executed by processor s . Storage subsystem may also provide a repository for storing data used in accordance with the present invention for example the data stored in the diagnostic data repository. For example storage subsystem provides a storage medium for persisting one or more ontologies. Storage subsystem may comprise memory subsystem and file disk storage subsystem .

Memory subsystem may include a number of memories including a main random access memory RAM for storage of instructions and data during program execution and a read only memory ROM in which fixed instructions are stored. File storage subsystem provides persistent non volatile storage for program and data files and may include a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive along with associated removable media a Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROM drive an optical drive removable media cartridges and other like storage media.

Computer system can be of various types including a personal computer a portable computer a workstation a network computer a mainframe a kiosk a server or any other data processing system. Due to the ever changing nature of computers and networks the description of computer system depicted in is intended only as a specific example for purposes of illustrating the preferred embodiment of the computer system. Many other configurations having more or fewer components than the system depicted in are possible.

Turning to the intranet of the organization a plurality of user devices are included. User devices may be for example computing devices utilized by employees of the organization such as desktop or notebook computers mobile devices tablet computers and generally any device utilized in connection with an internal network of the organization. As shown in the figure the user devices may be communicatively connected with one or more business applications which may be operated on one or more internal servers of the organization. For the purpose of illustration a single server is shown although organizations often utilize multiple servers for their operations. Examples of business applications are applications for customer relationship management CRM human resources HR accounting applications that operate internal websites and applications that are used in order to monitor the organization s operations in order to reduce risk detect fraud and or mistakes and generally ensure that the organization its employees and its systems are operating properly.

In an embodiment business application utilizes a plurality of data stores . A particular data store may be a database configured for a specific application such as for a CRM application or generally any application. Each data store may utilize one or more corresponding schemas and different data stores may utilize different schemas. For example a CRM application may utilize one schema while an HR application may utilize another schema. Use of different schemas may be for various reasons. Software from one software provider may utilize its own proprietary schema. Schemas for certain applications may utilize schemas specifically configured for performance reasons. Organizations may utilize their own schemas specifically adapted for the organization. Custom built applications may utilize a different schema simply due to design choices of one or more programmers. Example schemas include relational database schemas extensible markup language XML schemas flat file schemas lightweight directory access protocol LDAP schemas and generally any schema which may be utilized by an application for the organization of data relevant to the application.

As noted above the business applications may include one or more applications for monitoring the various systems of an organization. Such applications may operate analyzing data generated during operations of the various applications. However monitoring the data of the various applications may cause a decrease in performance for those applications. For instance the speed of an application may slow if data used by the application is concurrently being accessed by a monitoring application unless appropriate measures are taken. Accordingly in one embodiment the intranet includes a compliance data store that includes data from the various other data stores of the organization. The compliance data store in an embodiment is a data store which includes data from one or more of the various data stores utilized by business applications. The compliance data store may also include data from various external information sources such as from the web servers as described in more detail below. While for the purpose of illustration a single compliance data store may be used more than one compliance data store may be used. For instance data used for monitoring may be stored in a distributed manner across several data stores.

While shows a particular environment for the purposes of illustration variations are contemplated as being within the scope of the present disclosure. For instance the intranet and Internet are shown in a simplified arrangement. Typically networks include other devices such as switches firewalls servers and other devices not shown. In addition organizations may have multiple geographic locations and as a result an organization s network may include components that communicate with one another over the Internet or other communications networks. Also while organizations often own and maintain their own servers and other devices many aspects of an organization s activities may be performed in connection with devices in a cloud environment. For instance an organization may utilize applications hosted by third parties and may utilize databases operated by third parties in addition to or as an alternative to using one s own devices. In addition an organization may maintain an internal data store using hardware operated by a third party.

In the example shown the adaptors map schemas from the internal data stores to a schema of a compliance data store . As discussed the schemas of the internal data stores may be of several different types such as a relational database LDAP XML flat file and the like. In an embodiment the compliance data store utilizes a schema which models an ontology of the organization. As used herein an ontology is a formal representation of data and relationships among the data. In an embodiment the ontology modeled by the compliance data store is defined by terms commonly used in the organization and relationships between those terms. For instance in an embodiment an ontology represents among other things invoices and line items of the invoices and the relationships between them. Similarly an ontology may represent employees and their relationships among one another such as managers and non managers. A manager of a group of people for instance may be represented in an ontology in a manner that indicates that the manager manages the group of people. In an embodiment the compliance data store utilizes an Ontology Web Language OWL schema for data storage although other schemas such as XML schemas and relational database schemas may be used. The specific details of the schema may be defined by a user according to the particular semantic objects used by an organization of the user.

Often semantic objects such as people are represented differently in different data stores. For instance an employee may be represented by a unique identifier in one data store and by another unique identifier in another data store. In an embodiment the adaptors map common semantic objects to the same instance of an element of a schema modeling the ontology. As an example an employee identified by one identifier in one data store and another identifier in another data store may be mapped to the same instance of an employee element of a schema used to model an ontology. Similarly the relationships among data in their native sources may be preserved in the compliance data store. For instance if an invoice is related to an employee in a data store used for accounting records data corresponding to the invoice and the employee in an embodiment would be related to one another in a similar manner in the compliance data store. If the same employee is related to a purchase order as reflected in another data store the compliance data store may store data corresponding to the employee and purchase order reflecting their relationship. In this manner the invoice and purchase order may be seen as related to the same employee in the compliance data store even though data corresponding to the invoice and the purchase order are normally stored in separate data stores. This enables the analysis of data from disparate data stores in a manner that represents relationships among the data that otherwise may not be apparent by analyzing the disparate data stores separately.

As shown in the figure an environment also includes a plurality of external information sources which may be for example web servers such as those described above or generally data stores maintained by third parties. Information from the external information sources is stored in the compliance data store using one or more adapters as described in more detail below. In an embodiment the adapters map data in external schemas to a schema utilized by the compliance data store . With data in the compliance data store a user may operate a reasoner in order to analyze data in the compliance data store according to directions provided by the user. In an embodiment a reasoner often referred to as a reasoning engine or rules engine is an application that applies a set of rules to a set of data to infer a set of one or more logical consequences from the data. A reasoner may be implemented as a set of executable instructions stored on a computer readable storage medium and or may be implemented as hardware configured to execute the instructions. A reasoner may employ transitive reasoning in order to infer relationships among data of an organization. A reasoner may also perform statistical calculations on data such as by calculating correlations among data averages means and generally any calculation that is suitable for a particular purpose. An example of a reasoner and how it may be directed using user input is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 714 206 filed Feb. 26 2010 which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes. Any suitable reasoner may be used.

Turning to specific examples shown in the figure various schemas are modeled by corresponding information sources. For instance as shown in the figure an internal information source is modeled by an internal schema . In this example the internal schema is mapped to the business ontology by an adaptor. The adaptor then is utilized in order to store information from the internal information source into the compliance data store according to the adaptor. It should be noted that all information from the internal information source may not be stored in the compliance data store in order to reduce the amount of data moved into the compliance data store . As one example if the internal information source includes documents only the titles of the documents may be stored in the compliance data store whereas the contents of the documents themselves may not. As another example if the internal schema is a relational database schema comprising a plurality of relational tables only portions of the tables may be stored in the compliance data store.

In an embodiment information is provided from an external information source according to an external schema . The external schema may for instance be an XML schema or other schema. An illustrative example of information provided according to an external schema is provided in . One or more adapters may convert information from the external information source into a format suitable for the compliance data store . Information from an external information source may be information available through a website associated with the external information source may be sent according to calls of an application programming interface API of the external information source or may be provided for storage in the compliance data store in any suitable manner. Further as with the internal information sources less than all information received from an external information source may be stored in the compliance data store.

In order to illustrate various embodiments of the invention also shows that mappings may be used to store data from multiple internal data sources and multiple external sources into a compliance data store. Specifically shows another internal schema modeled by another internal information source and another external schema modeled by another external information source . The internal schemas as noted above may utilize their own schemas but be mapped to a common schema that encodes the business ontology . Likewise the external schemas may be different but mapped to a common schema that encodes the business ontology . While shows two internal schemas and two external schemas mapped to the business ontology there may be fewer or more than two internal schemas and or fewer or more than two external schemas.

As noted provides an illustrative example of how information from external information sources may be mapped to a schema used to encode a business ontology. In this specific example information related to online auctions is provided from two online auction sites according to two corresponding schemas. The elements of the schemas used by the auction sites are mapped to a schema encoding the business ontology in accordance with an embodiment. For instance shows a first auction item element of a schema utilized by a first auction site. In this example the auction item element includes a plurality of sub elements that correspond to information often available for auction items. For instance the auction item element includes a Buy It Now Price which may be a price at which consumers may purchase an item bypassing an actual auction. Accordingly the Buy It Now Price element is mapped to a Purchase Price element of an auction item element of the business ontology. Similarly a Country sub element which may correspond to the country in which an item up for auction is located is mapped to a Country sub element of an auction item element of the business ontology . Because the elements of an external schema may not be arranged exactly as the elements of an ontology the mapping may not be one to one. For example in this illustrative example the first auction item element includes both Subtitle and Title elements where the Subtitle element may be associated with fuller descriptions of items than what is typically found in instances of the Title element. However the Business Ontology in this example only includes a Title element. In this example this is remedied by mapping both the Subtitle and Title elements to the Title element of the auction item element of the Business Ontology. Similarly Created By and Created On elements of the first auction item element are mapped to an Other element of the auction item element of the ontology since corresponding elements are not otherwise found as sub elements of the auction item element. In some instances not all elements of a schema may be mapped to the business ontology. For instance as shown the first auction item element includes a Last Updated By element which is not mapped to any element of the ontology.

In an embodiment in this example an organization may receive instances of the first auction item element from third party auctioneers where an instance of an element is a set of data organized according to the element. For example an instance of the first auction item element may include data corresponding to an actual item being auctioned in an online auction where the data is arranged according by the schema of which the first auction element is a part. Thus an instance of the first auction item element may include data including a price at which the item may be purchased bypassing the auction an identifier of the auction an end time of the auction a title for the auction item and the like. This data to the extent corresponding sub elements are mapped to the business ontology may be stored in a compliance data store in a manner that models the business ontology. In this example the compliance data store may include instances of auction item elements that have the data arranged according to the ontology which may differ from the arrangement received from the external information source. The business ontology in this example may also include elements for auctioneers operators of online auction sites and may store instances of auction items in a manner indicating to which auctioneer the items are associated.

As shown in the illustrative example of auction item elements from another schema may be mapped to the auction item element of the business ontology. For instance a second auction item element may correspond to a schema utilized by another online auction site to arrange data associated with its own auction items. In this example the second auction item element includes a Purchase Now Price which is mapped to the Purchase Price discussed above as are other elements as shown in the drawing. Also illustrated with this element is a Seller Address element that does not correspond exactly to a corresponding element of the business Ontology. Computer logic may be used in order to parse actual addresses and store them in an arrangement specified by the business ontology . For instance an address may be analyzed and data corresponding to a postal code may be stored as an instance of a Seller Postal Code element of the business ontology data corresponding to a country may be stored as an instance of a Country element of the business ontology and the like.

In this manner items from disparate external information sources are stored in a manner that provides for effective analysis of the data. For instance if a seller of retail goods desired to detect when counterfeit goods were being passed off as goods of the seller a user at the seller may direct an application to analyze the data in the compliance data store for items having a purchase price below some threshold. Results of this analysis may be provided to the user who may then take appropriate action such as legal action against the seller of likely counterfeit goods or simply further investigation. In this manner analysis of one set of data is achieved thereby improving resource efficiency.

Further embodiments of the present invention provide other advantages. As an example because data relating to similar semantic objects auction items e.g. from disparate external sources is stored according to a common schema additional analysis that is otherwise difficult may be achieved. For instance statistical analysis that involves data from disparate external sources is relatively straightforward since users may define how analysis should proceed without having to learn multiple schemas for each source of information. In addition statistical analysis that involves both internal and external data may be performed in a straight forward manner. For instance users can define analysis to be performed on both internal data and external data without having to learn the different schemas of an organization and of the external sources.

In one specific example a reasoner may be instructed by a user through user input to locate items on online auction sites that have titles similar to names of inventory items and that have purchase prices that are below at least a threshold amount. A reasoner may then use appropriate algorithms to locate according to one or more rules inventory item names that are similar to auction item titles and from those auction items with the low purchase prices. As another example a government agency may provide an electronic list of suspected terrorists to whom certain items are prohibited by law to be sold. The government agency may periodically update the list. Internal data in a compliance data store corresponding to buyers may be checked against a current version of the government provided list and if a buyer matches an identity on the list a sale may be stopped or at least temporarily halted while further investigation and or approval from proper persons is obtained.

As yet another illustrative example of advantages provided by embodiments of the present invention includes the sale of pharmaceutical products and other products having expiration dates. Specifically an organization that sells such products may utilize embodiments of the present invention to detect instances of expired products or products about to expire being offered for sale. For instance an organization s internal compliance data store may include information relating to invoices such as product identifiers quantities sold expiration dates and the like. The information in the compliance data store in an embodiment is stored in a manner reflecting semantic relationships among the items. The compliance data store may also receive information from one or more third party websites that offer the organization s products for consumption. The data in the compliance data store may be analyzed to detect correlations that may indicate unauthorized and or potentially harmful activity. For instance if a product typically expires after a certain time period after sale such as one year data in a compliance data store may be analyzed to determine if there is a correlation between sales to particular buyers and the appearance of the sold items on auction sites. A strong correlation may indicate that the buyer has not sold all of the products he or she has purchased from the manufacturer and therefore is selling excess inventory that is about to expire. The buyer then may be investigated in order to determine whether corrective action should be taken. Generally data received from external sources may be analyzed with data from internal sources to determine correlation values between various measurements. Correlations may indicate a relationship between activities internal to the organization and activities external to the organization. As yet another example pattern recognition techniques may be used to detect abnormal activity within an organization and abnormal activity with respect to the organization s products as offered for consumption in an electronic environment. Correlations between instances of abnormal activity may signify fraud perpetuated by an employee of the organization.

Generally data corresponding to internal activities of an organization may be analyzed with data corresponding to activities external to an organization in numerous ways and the analysis may be as sophisticated as users dictate. An interface for allowing users to customize analysis of data may be similar to embodiments of the interface described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 714 206 filed Feb. 26 2010 noted above. In this manner users can design analysis of an organizations internal data and data relating to activities external to the organization in any suitable manner according to the needs of the organization.

As another example a user device may simply make standard hypertext transfer protocol HTTP requests to a web server providing a website of an external information source and information received may be analyzed and subsequently stored in an appropriate data store. As an example uniform resource locators URLs of auction sites may utilize their own schema where keyword search terms and or other parameters are embedded into the URL. An HTTP request according to the URL schema may be made to the web server of an auction site and a hypertext markup language HTML document may be provided by the web server in response. The HTML document may contain a list of items for auction satisfying the parameters. Data may be taken scraped from the HTML document and stored appropriately. An organization s system may if appropriate request other documents such as additional pages of results if the auction site provides only a portion of all items responsive to the query at a time.

According to yet another example an organization may have an arrangement with an operator of an external information source where the operator provides information according to the arrangement which may specify one or more criteria for information to be provided . Providing the information may be performed according in any suitable manner such as by periodically sending electronic documents to the organization. In this manner information is pushed to the organization. Generally any suitable manner of receiving information from external information sources may be utilized. In instances where information from multiple external information sources is received different external information sources may provide respective information differently.

As shown in the diagram information from the internal external information sources may be received at various times not necessarily sequentially. In addition information may be received periodically or at other times and not necessarily as a discrete step during performance of the process . In an embodiment information received from the internal and external sources is stored in a data store that models an ontology according to user defined semantic objects and user defined relationships among the objects. For instance the ontology may be a business ontology utilizing various concepts of a business and their relationships among each other as described above.

In an embodiment information from the data store is reasoned and results of the reasoning are provided to a user in accordance with an embodiment. Reasoning information in the data store may include analysis of the data in order to determine one or more conclusions based on one or more parameters. The reasoning may be performed pursuant to user defined logic using an interface similar to embodiments of the interface described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 714 206 filed Feb. 26 2010 noted above. Reasoning may also be performed according to predefined logic. In an embodiment results of reasoning are provided to a user in the form of a table having columns corresponding to user defined specifications. As an example if the reasoning is designed to detect invoices meeting certain criteria a table of invoices satisfying the criteria may be provided. Each row may correspond to a corresponding invoice and the columns may correspond to user specified attributes of invoices. For instance a user may have defined logic to detect invoices that according to some criteria appear fraudulent. The user may also have specified that for each invoice detected he or she would like to view the total amount the seller identity associated with the invoice and the buyer identity associated with the invoice. When invoices are detected transitive reasoning may be used to detect the other information specified by the user that is associated with the detected invoices. Generally any suitable manner of providing results of reasoning to users may be used. Suitable methods include but are not limited to electronic messages with applicable information provided graphics created based at least in part on the results and others.

In some instances information from various information sources especially external information sources may be unpredictable. For instance in the example of online auction sites the number of items of an organization or purporting to be of an organization in the case of counterfeit goods being auctioned at any given time may vary widely. On one day an online auction site may have just a few items purporting to be from an organization while another day there may be thousands. For analyzing data too little data may affect the accuracy of statistical calculations while too much data may cause strain on an organization s resources such as computing resources and resources for investigating potential policy violations. Accordingly embodiments of the present invention provide techniques for dealing with variations in the amount of data. for example shows a process for controlling the flow of information from one or more information sources to a compliance data store model and an ontology in accordance with an embodiment. In an embodiment information receipt parameters are set where the information receipt parameters define one or more conditions for data to be received from one or more information sources. The parameters may be different for different information sources. In the example of an online auction site for instance parameters may specify that auction items having certain titles should be received. The parameters may also specify a price such as a price for bypassing an auction or a final bid price that is below a particular amount thereby indicative of possible counterfeit and or grey market goods being offered. Generally the parameters may be any set of parameters that may be modified in order to affect the amount of information that is received. Example parameters include but are not limited to keywords for keyword searches ranges of values maximum and or minimum values and generally any information that may be used to determine information that should be included or excluded from information to be received.

When the information received parameters are set information is received according to the parameters. In an embodiment the rate of information received from external sources is measured . Measurement of the rate may be performed by measuring any statistic indicative of the amount of information being received such as the size of the information the number of items received and the like. Additional information may be received such as information indicating how much information would be received if parameters were adjusted information not satisfying but closely satisfying the parameters according to one or more metrics and the like.

In an embodiment a determination is made whether the rate is too high and if the rate is not too high a determination is made at whether the rate is too low. It should be noted that while the example process shown in shows a determination of whether a rate is too high performed as a step prior to determination to whether the rate is too low other orders of such determinations may be made. Generally while the steps of processes described herein are shown in a particular order for the purpose of illustration other orders may be used unless clearly contradicted explicitly or by context. Also a determination whether the rate is too high or too low may be made based at least in part on many different factors such as computational resources user specified values and the like.

In an embodiment if the rate of information received is too high or too low one or more of the parameters for information received is adjusted and information is received according to the new parameters. As an example current parameters may specify an intent to receive auction items relating to a particular product where the price is below a specified amount. Such parameters may be used to detect grey market and or counterfeit goods. If such parameters result in too many items being received the price may be lowered. In addition or as an alternative an additional parameter may specify that items offered by sellers with certain characteristics should be received. The characteristics may be for instance sellers in a particular jurisdiction sellers that offer for auction at least a minimum number of specified items and the like. A user for example may simply decide that there are too many items being auctioned and that it would be burdensome to investigate them all. Therefore the user may specify stricter parameters in order to focus on the more egregious instances of likely counterfeit and or grey market goods. Similarly parameters may be adjusted in order to receive more information such as improving statistical accuracy increasing the number of auction items or other instances of schema elements or generally to increase the amount of information received for any applicable purpose.

If the measured rate is not too high or too low then information is stored in a data store for reasoning. It should be noted that information may also be stored in the data store for reasoning even when the rate of information receipt is too high or too low but that adjustment of the parameters may simply affect greater receipt of future information. For instance if a current rate of information receipt may be acceptable but parameters may be adjusted for the purpose of improvement.

Other variations are within the spirit of the present invention. Thus while the invention is susceptible to various modifications and alternative constructions certain illustrated embodiments thereof are shown in the drawings and have been described above in detail. It should be understood however that there is no intention to limit the invention to the specific form or forms disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications alternative constructions and equivalents falling within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims.

The use of the terms a and an and the and similar referents in the context of describing the invention especially in the context of the following claims are to be construed to cover both the singular and the plural unless otherwise indicated herein or clearly contradicted by context. The terms comprising having including and containing are to be construed as open ended terms i.e. meaning including but not limited to unless otherwise noted. The term connected is to be construed as partly or wholly contained within attached to or joined together even if there is something intervening. Recitation of ranges of values herein are merely intended to serve as a shorthand method of referring individually to each separate value falling within the range unless otherwise indicated herein and each separate value is incorporated into the specification as if it were individually recited herein. All methods described herein can be performed in any suitable order unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context. The use of any and all examples or exemplary language e.g. such as provided herein is intended merely to better illuminate embodiments of the invention and does not pose a limitation on the scope of the invention unless otherwise claimed. No language in the specification should be construed as indicating any non claimed element as essential to the practice of the invention.

Preferred embodiments of this invention are described herein including the best mode known to the inventors for carrying out the invention. Variations of those preferred embodiments may become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art upon reading the foregoing description. The inventors expect skilled artisans to employ such variations as appropriate and the inventors intend for the invention to be practiced otherwise than as specifically described herein. Accordingly this invention includes all modifications and equivalents of the subject matter recited in the claims appended hereto as permitted by applicable law. Moreover any combination of the above described elements in all possible variations thereof is encompassed by the invention unless otherwise indicated herein or otherwise clearly contradicted by context.

Although specific embodiments of the invention have been described various modifications alterations alternative constructions and equivalents are also encompassed within the scope of the invention. Embodiments of the present invention are not restricted to operation within certain specific data processing environments but are free to operate within a plurality of data processing environments. Additionally although embodiments of the present invention have been described using a particular series of transactions and steps it should be apparent to those skilled in the art that the scope of the present invention is not limited to the described series of transactions and steps.

Further while embodiments of the present invention have been described using a particular combination of hardware and software it should be recognized that other combinations of hardware and software are also within the scope of the present invention. Embodiments of the present invention may be implemented only in hardware or only in software or using combinations thereof.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that additions subtractions deletions and other modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope as set forth in the claims.

All references including publications patent applications and patents cited herein are hereby incorporated by reference to the same extent as if each reference were individually and specifically indicated to be incorporated by reference and were set forth in its entirety herein.

