---

title: Printhead with double omega-shaped heater elements
abstract: An ink jet printhead has a plurality of nozzles and a bubble forming chamber corresponding to each of the nozzles respectively. The bubble forming chambers are adapted to contain a bubble forming liquid and a heater element is disposed in each of the bubble forming chambers respectively. The heater elements are configured for thermal contact with the bubble forming liquid and, a pair of electrodes for each of the heater elements are positioned adjacent each other such that the heater element provides a single current path between the electrodes of each pair. Each of the heater elements has a double omega shape in which a smaller, inner omega shape is concentric with, and encircled by, a larger, outer omega shape.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08029107&OS=08029107&RS=08029107
owner: Silverbrook Research Pty Ltd
number: 08029107
owner_city: Balmain, New South Wales
owner_country: AU
publication_date: 20100504
---
The present application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 926 121 filed on Oct. 28 2007 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 717 543 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 728 790 filed Dec. 8 2003 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 287 836 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 160 273 filed on Jun. 4 2002 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 746 105 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 112 767 filed on Jul. 10 1998 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 6 416 167 all of which are herein incorporated by reference.

The following Australian provisional patent applications are hereby incorporated by cross reference. For the purposes of location and identification US patent applications identified by their US patent application serial numbers USSN are listed alongside the Australian applications from which the US patent applications claim the right of priority.

The present invention relates to the field of inkjet printers and discloses an inkjet printing system using printheads manufactured with microelectro mechanical systems MEMS techniques.

Many different types of printing have been invented a large number of which are presently in use. The known forms of print have a variety of methods for marking the print media with a relevant marking media. Commonly used forms of printing include offset printing laser printing and copying devices dot matrix type impact printers thermal paper printers film recorders thermal wax printers dye sublimation printers and ink jet printers both of the drop on demand and continuous flow type. Each type of printer has its own advantages and problems when considering cost speed quality reliability simplicity of construction and operation etc.

In recent years the field of ink jet printing wherein each individual pixel of ink is derived from one or more ink nozzles has become increasingly popular primarily due to its inexpensive and versatile nature.

Many different techniques on ink jet printing have been invented. For a survey of the field reference is made to an article by J Moore Non Impact Printing Introduction and Historical Perspective Output Hard Copy Devices Editors R Dubeck and S Sherr pages 207 220 1988 .

Ink Jet printers themselves come in many different types. The utilization of a continuous stream of ink in ink jet printing appears to date back to at least 1929 wherein U.S. Pat. No. 1 941 001 by Hansell discloses a simple form of continuous stream electro static ink jet printing.

U.S. Pat. No. 3 596 275 by Sweet also discloses a process of a continuous ink jet printing including the step wherein the ink jet stream is modulated by a high frequency electro static field so as to cause drop separation. This technique is still utilized by several manufacturers including Elmjet and Scitex see also U.S. Pat. No. 3 373 437 by Sweet et al 

Piezoelectric ink jet printers are also one form of commonly utilized ink jet printing device. Piezoelectric systems are disclosed by Kyser et. al. in U.S. Pat. No. 3 946 398 1970 which utilizes a diaphragm mode of operation by Zolten in U.S. Pat. No. 3 683 212 1970 which discloses a squeeze mode of operation of a piezoelectric crystal Stemme in U.S. Pat. No. 3 747 120 1972 discloses a bend mode of piezoelectric operation Howkins in U.S. Pat. No. 4 459 601 discloses a piezoelectric push mode actuation of the ink jet stream and Fischbeck in U.S. Pat. No. 4 584 590 which discloses a shear mode type of piezoelectric transducer element.

Recently thermal ink jet printing has become an extremely popular form of ink jet printing. The ink jet printing techniques include those disclosed by Endo et al in GB 2007162 1979 and Vaught et al in U.S. Pat. No. 4 490 728. Both the aforementioned references disclosed ink jet printing techniques that rely upon the activation of an electrothermal actuator which results in the creation of a bubble in a constricted space such as a nozzle which thereby causes the ejection of ink from an aperture connected to the confined space onto a relevant print media. Printing devices utilizing the electro thermal actuator are manufactured by manufacturers such as Canon and Hewlett Packard.

As can be seen from the foregoing many different types of printing technologies are available. Ideally a printing technology should have a number of desirable attributes. These include inexpensive construction and operation high speed operation safe and continuous long term operation etc. Each technology may have its own advantages and disadvantages in the areas of cost speed quality reliability power usage simplicity of construction operation durability and consumables.

In the construction of any inkjet printing system there are a considerable number of important factors which must be traded off against one another especially as large scale printheads are constructed especially those of a pagewidth type. A number of these factors are outlined in the following paragraphs.

Firstly inkjet printheads are normally constructed utilizing micro electromechanical systems MEMS techniques. As such they tend to rely upon standard integrated circuit construction fabrication techniques of depositing planar layers on a silicon wafer and etching certain portions of the planar layers. Within silicon circuit fabrication technology certain techniques are better known than others. For example the techniques associated with the creation of CMOS circuits are likely to be more readily used than those associated with the creation of exotic circuits including ferroelectrics lumini arsenide etc. Hence it is desirable in any MEMS constructions to utilize well proven semi conductor fabrication techniques which do not require any exotic processes or materials. Of course a certain degree of trade off will be undertaken in that if the advantages of using the exotic material far out weighs its disadvantages then it may become desirable to utilize the material anyway. However if it is possible to achieve the same or similar properties using more common materials the problems of exotic materials can be avoided.

With a large array of ink ejection nozzles it is desirable to provide for a highly automated form of manufacturing which results in an inexpensive production of multiple printhead devices.

Preferably the device constructed utilizes a low amount of energy in the ejection of ink. The utilization of a low amount of energy is particularly important when a large pagewidth full color printhead is constructed having a large array of individual print ejection mechanism with each ejection mechanisms in the worst case being fired in a rapid sequence.

It is an object of the present invention to provide an ink ejection nozzle arrangement suitable for incorporation into an inkjet printhead arrangement for the ejection of ink on demand from a nozzle chamber in an efficient and reliable manner.

a bubble forming chamber corresponding to each of the nozzles respectively the bubble forming chambers adapted to contain a bubble forming liquid and 

at least one heater element disposed in each of the bubble forming chambers respectively the heater elements configured for thermal contact with the bubble forming liquid such that 

heating the heater element to a temperature above the boiling point of the bubble forming liquid forms a gas bubble that causes the ejection of a drop of an ejectable liquid through the nozzle corresponding to that heater element wherein 

By designing the bubble forming chamber with a circular cross section it has much greater structural strength and rigidity. The circular geometry avoids areas of high stress concentration that are prone to failure. The use of an inherently high strength structure allows it to use less material and have a more compact design which improves the nozzle density of the printhead. This in turn improves the printing resolution.

According to a second aspect the present invention provides a printer system which incorporates a printhead the printhead comprising 

a bubble forming chamber corresponding to each of the nozzles respectively the bubble forming chambers adapted to contain a bubble forming liquid and 

at least one heater element disposed in each of the bubble forming chambers respectively the heater elements configured for thermal contact with the bubble forming liquid such that 

heating the heater element to a temperature above the boiling point of the bubble forming liquid forms a gas bubble that causes the ejection of a drop of an ejectable liquid through the nozzle corresponding to that heater element wherein 

According to a third aspect the present invention provides a method of ejecting drops of an ejectable liquid from a printhead the printhead comprising a plurality of nozzles 

a bubble forming chamber corresponding to each of the nozzles respectively the bubble forming chambers adapted to contain a bubble forming liquid and 

at least one heater element disposed in each of the bubble forming chambers respectively the heater elements configured for thermal contact with the bubble forming liquid wherein 

placing the bubble forming liquid into thermal contact with the heater elements heating the heater elements to a temperature above the boiling point of the bubble forming liquid to form a gas bubble such that a drop of an ejectable liquid is ejected through the corresponding nozzle.

Preferably the bubble forming chamber is cylindrical. In another form the bubble forming chamber is barrel shaped. In yet another embodiment the bubble forming chamber is a truncated cone shape.

In an embodiment related to the present invention there is provided a nozzle arrangement having a nozzle chamber containing ink and a thermal bend actuator connected to a paddle positioned within the chamber. The thermal actuator device is actuated so as to eject ink from the nozzle chamber. The preferred embodiment includes a particular thermal bend actuator which includes a series of tapered portions for providing conductive heating of a conductive trace. The actuator is connected to the paddle via an arm received through a slotted wall of the nozzle chamber. The actuator arm has a mating shape so as to mate substantially with the surfaces of the slot in the nozzle chamber wall.

Turning initially to there is provided schematic illustrations of the basic operation of a nozzle arrangement of this embodiment. A nozzle chamber is provided filled with ink by means of an ink inlet channel which can be etched through a wafer substrate on which the nozzle chamber rests. The nozzle chamber further includes an ink ejection port around which an ink meniscus forms.

Inside the nozzle chamber is a paddle type device which is interconnected to an actuator through a slot in the wall of the nozzle chamber . The actuator includes a heater means e.g. located adjacent to an end portion of a post . The post is fixed to a substrate.

When it is desired to eject a drop from the nozzle chamber as illustrated in the heater means is heated so as to undergo thermal expansion. Preferably the heater means itself or the other portions of the actuator are built from materials having a high bend efficiency where the bend efficiency is defined as

A suitable material for the heater elements is a copper nickel alloy which can be formed so as to bend a glass material.

The heater means is ideally located adjacent the end portion of the post such that the effects of activation are magnified at the paddle end such that small thermal expansions near the post result in large movements of the paddle end.

The heater means and consequential paddle movement causes a general increase in pressure around the ink meniscus which expands as illustrated in in a rapid manner. The heater current is pulsed and ink is ejected out of the port in addition to flowing in from the ink channel .

Subsequently the paddle is deactivated to again return to its quiescent position. The deactivation causes a general reflow of the ink into the nozzle chamber. The forward momentum of the ink outside the nozzle rim and the corresponding backflow results in a general necking and breaking off of the drop which proceeds to the print media. The collapsed meniscus results in a general sucking of ink into the nozzle chamber via the ink flow channel . In time the nozzle chamber is refilled such that the position in is again reached and the nozzle chamber is subsequently ready for the ejection of another drop of ink.

Firstly the actuator includes a series of tapered actuator units e.g. which comprise an upper glass portion amorphous silicon dioxide formed on top of a titanium nitride layer . Alternatively a copper nickel alloy layer hereinafter called cupronickel can be utilized which will have a higher bend efficiency where bend efficiency is defined as 

The titanium nitride layer is in a tapered form and as such resistive heating takes place near an end portion of the post . Adjacent titanium nitride glass portions are interconnected at a block portion which also provides a mechanical structural support for the actuator .

The heater means ideally includes a plurality of the tapered actuator unit which are elongate and spaced apart such that upon heating the bending force exhibited along the axis of the actuator is maximized. Slots are defined between adjacent tapered units and allow for slight differential operation of each actuator with respect to adjacent actuators .

The block portion is interconnected to an arm . The arm is in turn connected to the paddle inside the nozzle chamber by means of a slot e.g. formed in the side of the nozzle chamber . The slot is designed generally to mate with the surfaces of the arm so as to minimize opportunities for the outflow of ink around the arm . The ink is held generally within the nozzle chamber via surface tension effects around the slot .

When it is desired to actuate the arm a conductive current is passed through the titanium nitride layer via vias within the block portion connecting to a lower CMOS layer which provides the necessary power and control circuitry for the nozzle arrangement. The conductive current results in heating of the nitride layer adjacent to the post which results in a general upward bending of the arm and consequential ejection of ink out of the nozzle . The ejected drop is printed on a page in the usual manner for an inkjet printer as previously described.

An array of nozzle arrangements can be formed so as to create a single printhead. For example in there is illustrated a partly sectioned various array view which comprises multiple ink ejection nozzle arrangements of laid out in interleaved lines so as to form a printhead array. Of course different types of arrays can be formulated including full color arrays etc.

The construction of the printhead system described can proceed utilizing standard MEMS techniques through suitable modification of the steps as set out in U.S. Pat. No. 6 243 113 entitled Image Creation Method and Apparatus IJ 41 to the present applicant the contents of which are fully incorporated by cross reference.

Fabrication of the ink jet nozzle arrangement is indicated in . The preferred embodiment achieves a particular balance between utilization of the standard semi conductor processing material such as titanium nitride and glass in a MEMS process. The use of glass or indeed any amorphous ceramic to form the chamber is particularly beneficial. The pressure transients within the chamber can exert significant stresses on the chamber wall. Amorphous ceramics are relatively inexpensive and high strength but also have a non crystalline structure. Defects in a crystal structure can act as stress concentration points that are prone to failure in the cyclical loading environment of the nozzle chambers.

Obviously the skilled person may make other choices of materials and design features where the economics are justified. For example a copper nickel alloy of 50 copper and 50 nickel may be more advantageously deployed as the conductive heating compound as it is likely to have higher levels of bend efficiency. Also other design structures may be employed where it is not necessary to provide for such a simple form of manufacture.

The present invention is applicable to printheads using bubble forming heater elements. show a nozzle of this type. While the fabrication of nozzles of this type is described below the nozzles ejection actuators associated drive circuitry and ink supply passages is formed on and through a wafer using lithographically masked etching techniques described in great detail in U.S. Ser. No. 10 302 274. In the interests of brevity the disclosure of the 274 application is incorporated herein in its entirety.

With reference to the unit cell of a printhead according to an embodiment of the invention comprises a nozzle plate with nozzles therein the nozzles having nozzle rims and apertures extending through the nozzle plate. The nozzle plate is plasma etched from a silicon nitride structure which is deposited by way of chemical vapor deposition CVD over a sacrificial material which is subsequently etched.

The printhead also includes with respect to each nozzle side walls on which the nozzle plate is supported a chamber defined by the walls and the nozzle plate a multi layer substrate and an inlet passage extending through the multi layer substrate to the far side not shown of the substrate. A looped elongate heater element is suspended within the chamber so that the element is in the form of a suspended beam. The printhead as shown is a microelectromechanical system MEMS structure which is formed by a lithographic process which is described in more detail below.

When the printhead is in use ink from a reservoir not shown enters the chamber via the inlet passage so that the chamber fills to the level as shown in . Thereafter the heater element is heated for somewhat less than 1 microsecond so that the heating is in the form of a thermal pulse. It will be appreciated that the heater element is in thermal contact with the ink in the chamber so that when the element is heated this causes the generation of vapor bubbles in the ink. Accordingly the ink constitutes a bubble forming liquid. shows the formation of a bubble approximately 1 microsecond after generation of the thermal pulse that is when the bubble has just nucleated on the heater elements . It will be appreciated that as the heat is applied in the form of a pulse all the energy necessary to generate the bubble is to be supplied within that short time.

When the element is heated as described above the bubble forms along the length of the element this bubble appearing in the cross sectional view of as four bubble portions one for each of the element portions shown in cross section.

The bubble once generated causes an increase in pressure within the chamber which in turn causes the ejection of a drop of the ink through the nozzle . The rim assists in directing the drop as it is ejected so as to minimize the chance of drop misdirection.

The reason that there is only one nozzle and chamber per inlet passage is so that the pressure wave generated within the chamber on heating of the element and forming of a bubble does not affect adjacent chambers and their corresponding nozzles. As discussed above in relation to the related embodiment the pressure wave generated within the chamber creates significant stresses in the chamber wall. By designing the chamber with a circular cross section it has much greater structural strength and rigidity. The circular geometry avoids stress concentration points that weaken the structure and may eventually lead to failure. The use of an inherently high strength structure allows the use of less material that in turn provides a more compact and a greater nozzle density on the printhead. This in turn improves the printing resolution. Furthermore forming the chamber from an amorphous ceramic such as silicon nitride silicon dioxide glass or silicon oxynitride gives the chamber walls high strength while avoiding the use of material with a crystal structure. Crystalline defects can act as stress concentration points and therefore potential areas of weakness and ultimately failure.

The increase in pressure within the chamber not only pushes ink out through the nozzle but also pushes some ink back through the inlet passage . However the inlet passage is approximately 200 to 300 microns in length and is only approximately 16 microns in diameter. Hence there is a substantial viscous drag. As a result the predominant effect of the pressure rise in the chamber is to force ink out through the nozzle as an ejected drop rather than back through the inlet passage .

Turning now to the printhead is shown at a still further successive stage of operation in which the ink drop that is being ejected is shown during its necking phase before the drop breaks off. At this stage the bubble has already reached its maximum size and has then begun to collapse towards the point of collapse as reflected in more detail in .

The collapsing of the bubble towards the point of collapse causes some ink to be drawn from within the nozzle from the sides of the drop and some to be drawn from the inlet passage towards the point of collapse. Most of the ink drawn in this manner is drawn from the nozzle forming an annular neck at the base of the drop prior to its breaking off.

The drop requires a certain amount of momentum to overcome surface tension forces in order to break off. As ink is drawn from the nozzle by the collapse of the bubble the diameter of the neck reduces thereby reducing the amount of total surface tension holding the drop so that the momentum of the drop as it is ejected out of the nozzle is sufficient to allow the drop to break off.

When the drop breaks off cavitation forces are caused as reflected by the arrows as the bubble collapses to the point of collapse . It will be noted that there are no solid surfaces in the vicinity of the point of collapse on which the cavitation can have an effect.

Referring to the unit cell shown has the chamber ink supply passage and the nozzle rim positioned mid way along the length of the unit cell . As best seen in the drive circuitry is partially on one side of the chamber with the remainder on the opposing side of the chamber. The drive circuitry controls the operation of the heater through vias in the integrated circuit metallisation layers of the interconnect . The interconnect has a raised metal layer on its top surface. Passivation layer is formed in top of the interconnect but leaves areas of the raised metal layer exposed. Electrodes of the heater contact the exposed metal areas to supply power to the element .

Alternatively the drive circuitry for one unit cell is not on opposing sides of the heater element that it controls. All the drive circuitry for the heater of one unit cell is in a single undivided area that is offset from the heater. That is the drive circuitry is partially overlaid by one of the electrodes of the heater that it is controlling and partially overlaid by one or more of the heater electrodes from adjacent unit cells. In this situation the center of the drive circuitry is less than 200 microns from the center of the associate nozzle aperture . In most Memjet printheads of this type the offset is less than 100 microns and in many cases less than 50 microns preferably less than 30 microns.

Configuring the nozzle components so that there is significant overlap between the electrodes and the drive circuitry provides a compact design with high nozzle density nozzles per unit area of the nozzle plate . This also improves the efficiency of the printhead by shortening the length of the conductors from the circuitry to the electrodes. The shorter conductors have less resistance and therefore dissipate less energy.

The high degree of overlap between the electrodes and the drive circuitry also allows more vias between the heater material and the CMOS metalization layers of the interconnect . As best shown in the passivation layer has an array of vias to establish an electrical connection with the heater . More vias lowers the resistance between the heater electrodes and the interconnect layer which reduces power losses.

In the unit cell is the same as that of apart from the heater element . The heater element has a bubble nucleation section with a smaller cross section than the remainder of the element. The bubble nucleation section has a greater resistance and heats to a temperature above the boiling point of the ink before the remainder of the element . The gas bubble nucleates at this region and subsequently grows to surround the rest of the element . By controlling the bubble nucleation and growth the trajectory of the ejected drop is more predictable.

The heater element is configured to accommodate thermal expansion in a specific manner. As heater elements expand they will deform to relieve the strain. Elements such as that shown in will bow out of the plane of lamination because its thickness is the thinnest cross sectional dimension and therefore has the least bending resistance. Repeated bending of the element can lead to the formation of cracks especially at sharp corners which can ultimately lead to failure. The heater element shown in is configured so that the thermal expansion is relieved by rotation of the bubble nucleation section and slightly splaying the sections leading to the electrodes in preference to bowing out of the plane of lamination. The geometry of the element is such that miniscule bending within the plane of lamination is sufficient to relieve the strain of thermal expansion and such bending occurs in preference to bowing. This gives the heater element greater longevity and reliability by minimizing bend regions which are prone to oxidation and cracking

Referring to the heater element used in this unit cell has a serpentine or double omega shape. This configuration keeps the gas bubble centered on the axis of the nozzle. A single omega is a simple geometric shape which is beneficial from a fabrication perspective. However the gap between the ends of the heater element means that the heating of the ink in the chamber is slightly asymmetrical. As a result the gas bubble is slightly skewed to the side opposite the gap . This can in turn affect the trajectory of the ejected drop. The double omega shape provides the heater element with the gap to compensate for the gap so that the symmetry and position of the bubble within the chamber is better controlled and the ejected drop trajectory is more reliable.

The omega shape directs current flow around the axis of the nozzle aperture . This gives good bubble alignment with the aperture for better ejection of drops while ensuring that the bubble collapse point is not on the heater element . As discussed above this avoids problems caused by cavitation.

Referring to another embodiment of the unit cell is shown together with several stages of the etching and deposition fabrication process. In this embodiment the heater element is suspended from opposing sides of the chamber. This allows it to be symmetrical about two planes that intersect along the axis of the nozzle aperture . This configuration provides a drop trajectory along the axis of the nozzle aperture while avoiding the cavitation problems discussed above. show other variations of this type of heater element .

The unit cell shown in also has a relatively large chamber which again reduces the surface area of the electrodes in contact with the vias leading to the interconnect layer . However the larger chamber allows several heater elements offset from the nozzle aperture . The arrangement shown uses two heater elements one on either side of the chamber . Other designs use three or more elements in the chamber. Gas bubbles nucleate from opposing sides of the nozzle aperture and converge to form a single bubble. The bubble formed is symmetrical about at least one plane extending along the nozzle axis. This enhances the control of the symmetry and position of the bubble within the chamber and therefore the ejected drop trajectory is more reliable.

The invention has been described above with reference to printheads using thermal bend actuators and bubble forming heater elements. However it is potentially suited to a wide range of printing system including color and monochrome office printers short run digital printers high speed digital printers offset press supplemental printers low cost scanning printers high speed pagewidth printers notebook computers with inbuilt pagewidth printers portable color and monochrome printers color and monochrome copiers color and monochrome facsimile machines combined printer facsimile and copying machines label printers large format plotters photograph copiers printers for digital photographic minilabs video printers PHOTO CD PHOTO CD is a registered trade mark of the Eastman Kodak Company printers portable printers for PDAs wallpaper printers indoor sign printers billboard printers fabric printers camera printers and fault tolerant commercial printer arrays.

It will be appreciated by ordinary workers in this field that numerous variations and or modifications may be made to the present invention as shown in the specific embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention as broadly described. The present embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects to be illustrative and not restrictive.

The embodiments of the invention use an ink jet printer type device. Of course many different devices could be used. However presently popular ink jet printing technologies are unlikely to be suitable.

The most significant problem with thermal ink jet is power consumption. This is approximately 100 times that required for high speed and stems from the energy inefficient means of drop ejection. This involves the rapid boiling of water to produce a vapor bubble which expels the ink. Water has a very high heat capacity and must be superheated in thermal ink jet applications. In conventional thermal inkjet printheads this leads to an efficiency of around 0.02 from electricity input to drop momentum and increased surface area out.

The most significant problem with piezoelectric ink jet is size and cost. Piezoelectric crystals have a very small deflection at reasonable drive voltages and therefore require a large area for each nozzle. Also each piezoelectric actuator must be connected to its drive circuit on a separate substrate. This is not a significant problem at the current limit of around 300 nozzles per printhead but is a major impediment to the fabrication of pagewidth printheads with 19 200 nozzles.

Ideally the ink jet technologies used meet the stringent requirements of in camera digital color printing and other high quality high speed low cost printing applications. To meet the requirements of digital photography new ink jet technologies have been created. The target features include 

All of these features can be met or exceeded by the ink jet systems described below with differing levels of difficulty. Forty five different ink jet technologies have been developed by the Assignee to give a wide range of choices for high volume manufacture. These technologies form part of separate applications assigned to the present Assignee as set out in the table under the heading Cross References to Related Applications.

The ink jet designs shown here are suitable for a wide range of digital printing systems from battery powered one time use digital cameras through to desktop and network printers and through to commercial printing systems.

For ease of manufacture using standard process equipment the printhead is designed to be a monolithic 0.5 micron CMOS chip with MEMS post processing. For color photographic applications the printhead is 100 mm long with a width which depends upon the ink jet type. The smallest printhead designed is IJ38 which is 0.35 mm wide giving a chip area of 35 square mm. The printheads each contain 19 200 nozzles plus data and control circuitry.

Ink is supplied to the back of the printhead by injection molded plastic ink channels. The molding requires 50 micron features which can be created using a lithographically micromachined insert in a standard injection molding tool. Ink flows through holes etched through the wafer to the nozzle chambers fabricated on the front surface of the wafer. The printhead is connected to the camera circuitry by tape automated bonding.

Eleven important characteristics of the fundamental operation of individual ink jet nozzles have been identified. These characteristics are largely orthogonal and so can be elucidated as an eleven dimensional matrix. Most of the eleven axes of this matrix include entries developed by the present assignee.

The complete eleven dimensional table represented by these axes contains 36.9 billion possible configurations of ink jet nozzle. While not all of the possible combinations result in a viable ink jet technology many million configurations are viable. It is clearly impractical to elucidate all of the possible configurations. Instead certain ink jet types have been investigated in detail. These are designated IJ01 to IJ45 above which matches the docket numbers in the table under the heading Cross References to Related Applications.

Other ink jet configurations can readily be derived from these forty five examples by substituting alternative configurations along one or more of the 11 axes. Most of the IJ01 to IJ45 examples can be made into ink jet printheads with characteristics superior to any currently available ink jet technology.

Where there are prior art examples known to the inventor one or more of these examples are listed in the examples column of the tables below. The IJ01 to IJ45 series are also listed in the examples column. In some cases print technology may be listed more than once in a table where it shares characteristics with more than one entry.

Suitable applications for the ink jet technologies include Home printers Office network printers Short run digital printers Commercial print systems Fabric printers Pocket printers Internet WWW printers Video printers Medical imaging Wide format printers Notebook PC printers Fax machines Industrial printing systems Photocopiers Photographic minilabs etc.

The information associated with the aforementioned 11 dimensional matrix are set out in the following tables.

