---

title: Methods, systems, and articles of manufacture for implementing electronic circuit designs with electrical awareness
abstract: Disclosed are a method, system, and computer program product for implementing electronic circuit designs with electrical awareness. The method or the system updates the schematic level tool(s) and physical design tool(s) with electrical parasitic data or electrical characteristic data associated with electrical parasitics so both schematic and physical design tools are aware of the electrical parasitic or characteristic data in performing their functions such as extraction based simulations. The methods or systems are also aware of EM or IR-drop constraint(s) while implementing or creating a partial layout less than a complete layout. The method or the system also provides a user interface for a design tool to provide in situ, customizable, real-time information for implementing electronic circuit designs with electrical awareness. The methods or systems also support constraint verification for electronic circuit design implementation with electrical awareness.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08694950&OS=08694950&RS=08694950
owner: Cadence Design Systems, Inc.
number: 08694950
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101230
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional App. Ser. No. 61 367 398 filed on Jul. 24 2010 and entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR CONSTRAINT VERIFICATION FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS U.S. Provisional App. Ser. No. 61 367 412 filed on Jul. 24 2010 and entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS U.S. Provisional App. Ser. No. 61 367 404 filed on Jul. 24 2010 and entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURES FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRO MIGRATION AWARENESS U.S. Provisional App. Ser. No. 61 367 406 filed on Jul. 24 2010 and entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURES FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH IR DROP AWARENESS U.S. Provisional App. Ser. No. 61 367 412 filed on Jul. 24 2010 and entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURES FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH SIMULATION AWARENESS U.S. Provisional App. Ser. No. 61 367 410 filed on Jul. 24 2010 and entitled METHOD APPARATUS AND ARTICLE OF MANUFACTURE FOR PROVIDING IN SITU CUSTOMIZABLE INFORMATION IN DESIGNING ELECTRONIC CIRCUITS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS . The entire contents of the aforementioned applications are hereby expressly incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 762 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRO MIGRATION AWARENESS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 790 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH SIMULATION AWARENESS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 628 entitled METHOD APPARATUS AND ARTICLE OF MANUFACTURE FOR PROVIDING IN SITU CUSTOMIZABLE INFORMATION IN DESIGNING ELECTRONIC CIRCUITS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 732 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR CONSTRAINT VERIFICATION FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS . The entire disclosures of the above applications are hereby expressly incorporated by reference in their entireties in the instant Application.

The recent advances in very deep sub micron VDSM integrated circuits ICs have brought new challenges in the physical design methodology process of integrated systems.

For example most conventional electronic circuit design tools focus on post layout verification of the power grid or interconnects when the entire chip design is complete and detailed information about the parasitics of the physical designs and the currents drawn by the transistors are known. In these conventional approaches the conventional circuit synthesis step is followed by layout synthesis and each step is carried out independent of the other. This is again followed by a physical or formal verification step upon the completion of the entire physical layout to check whether the desired performance goals have been achieved after layout generation and extraction. These steps are carried out iteratively in the conventional approaches till the desired performance goals are met.

Nonetheless such an iterative approach wastes significant amount of resources because various physical design tools such as the placement tool the router etc. and various schematic design tools such as the schematic editor the schematic level simulator s etc. are unaware of the electrical parasitics associated with the physical data of the design and the electrical characteristics associated with the electrical parasitics.

Thus there exists a need for implementing electronic circuit designs with electrical awareness early in the design stage.

What is needed is a method a system and a computer program product for implementing electronic circuit designs with electrical awareness. In various embodiments directed to a hardware system implementing the electronic circuit designs with electrical awareness the system may comprise a module for implementing electronic circuit designs with simulation awareness. The system may further comprise a module for parasitic constraint verification for implementing electronic circuit designs with electrical awareness in some embodiments. Furthermore the system may also comprise a module for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration EM and or IR drop awareness in some embodiments. In addition or in the alternative the system may comprise a user interface providing in situ real time customizable information for implementing electronic circuit designs with electrical awareness in some embodiments.

Some embodiments are directed at methods for implementing electronic circuit designs with electrical awareness. More details about various processes or modules will be further described in the following paragraphs with reference to the corresponding figures.

Various embodiments of the invention are directed to a methods systems and articles of manufacture for implementing electronic circuit designs with electrical awareness in a single embodiment or in some embodiments. Other objects features and advantages of the invention are described in the detailed description figures and claims.

Various embodiments will now be described in detail with reference to the drawings which are provided as illustrative examples of the invention so as to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Notably the figures and the examples below are not meant to limit the scope of the invention. Where certain elements of the present invention can be partially or fully implemented using known components or methods or processes only those portions of such known components or methods or processes that are necessary for an understanding of the present invention will be described and the detailed descriptions of other portions of such known components or methods or processes will be omitted so as not to obscure the invention. Further various embodiments of the present invention encompasses present and future known equivalents to the components referred to herein by way of illustration.

The system may also comprise the automatic assisted placement tool the automatic assisted global detailed routing tool s the post route optimization tool s the extractor the module for implementing electronic circuit designs with simulation awareness the module for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration IR drop awareness the module for constraint verification for implementing electronic circuit designs with electrical awareness timing analysis tool s etc. in the physical domain in some embodiments. In some embodiments the system comprises one or more schematic level tools and one or more physical level tools but does not comprise any post layout tools that require a complete layout to operate and may comprise for example but not limited to the post layout physical formal or other verification tool s the layout versus schematic LVS tool s etc. because various modules described herein already perform the functions and thus displace the need for such post layout tools.

The system may also comprise some post layout verification tools that require a complete layout of an electronic circuit design in some embodiments. The verification tools may comprise for example some DRC design rule checking tools some post layout parasitic re simulation tools design tools for extracting or filtering parasitics design tools for circuit simulations design tools for electro migration IR drop analyses or verification physical verification tools etc. Some embodiments are directed at various processes performed by some of the aforementioned sub systems for implementing electronic circuit designs with electrical awareness. Various modules of the system or various processes of the method will be described in greater details in the following paragraphs with reference to various figures.

In some embodiments the process for identifying determining or updating physical data of a component of an electronic circuit physical design may be invoked from within a physical design tool or flow such as a layout editor while the designer is implementing or modifying the physical design of the electronic circuit rather than from a post layout verification tool or flow in one or more embodiments. In some embodiments device recognition and connectivity tasks are performed to able to map electrical characteristics such as current at a given terminal with the proper nets attached to that terminal. In some embodiments connectivity can be directed to traverse the nets hierarchically and stop on levels determined by the user.

The process or module may further comprise the process or module for characterizing an electrical parasitic that is associated with the physical data that are identified determined or updated at in some embodiments. In some embodiments the method or the system may also comprise the process or module for identifying determining or characterizing a device parameter that is associated with the component in the physical design at . In some embodiments the method or the system may also comprise the process or module for identifying determining or characterizing an electrical parasitic or a device parameter that is associated with the component in the physical design at . In these embodiments the electrical parasitic and the device parameter are collectively referred to as electrical parasitic or simply parasitic .

In some embodiments the characterization of electrical parasitics associated with physical data may be done with a two stage approach. This process begins with the selection a particular net or partial net. In the first stage the process identifies where along that net that a geometric description should be created. The geometric descriptions may include wire widths and spacings conductor and ILD inter layer dielectrics thicknesses or thickness of barrier materials. A common description may be created and provided via an API application programming interface. 

The second stage may include one or more components that may translate transform convert or map hereinafter map the geometric description to an equivalent parasitic value such as a resistance capacitance or inductance. This translation transformation conversion or mapping hereinafter mapping may be done with mathematical algorithms or models that are often referred to as parasitic extraction. The models may be created through the use of semi empirical methods that combine models or knowledge of the underlying physics with data provided by various solver s simulator s or a combination thereof. In some cases the mapping for capacitance may also be done with a solver.

In some embodiments the second stage may use parasitic extraction for some nets and a field solver for other nets. In some embodiments the second stage may use a combination of parasitic extraction for for example resistance s and a field solver for for example capacitance s on the same net. In some embodiments the characterization of electrical parasitics may be performed with extraction tools that map geometric dimensions and patterns to corresponding parasitics such as R L and C. In some embodiments the characterization of electrical parasitics includes the use of field solvers such as but not limited to one or more EM field solvers that map geometric dimensions and patterns to capacitance s .

In some embodiments the process or module may further comprise the process or module for providing the electrical parasitic to a simulator and a process or module for performing one or more simulations using the provided electrical parasitic.

In one or more embodiments the characterization of electrical parasitics such as but not limited to various types of R L or C for one or more shapes that constitute a net and the subsequent characterization of the electrical behavior or characteristic s such as but not limited to various types of currents voltages or current densities as well as the checking or verification occur as a single net or one or more shapes that are part of a net has been created or modified but before the creation or modification of the next net or one or more shapes that are part of the next net. These characterizations or verification may also occur incrementally as a net is being created or modified in some embodiments. The simulation produced terminal currents may be used as one or more nets that connect to these terminals are being created or modified in some embodiments. In addition these characterizations or verification may occur while there is only a partial layout in some embodiments. In these embodiments the simulation re simulation characterization or verification of the electronic circuit design may be performed in conjunction with the creation or modification of the physical design of an electronic circuit design so that any impact of a circuit component is addressed before the physical design is completed.

The process or module may also comprises the process or module for identifying determining or updating physical data of a net a device or a component hereinafter a component collectively of an electronic circuit physical design in some embodiments. The process or module may further comprise the process or module for characterizing an electrical parasitic that is associated with the physical data that are identified determined or updated at in some embodiments.

The process or module may also comprises the process or module for mapping the electrical parasitic associated with the physical data or layout to a schematic representation at in some embodiments. The process or module may also comprises the process or module for providing the electrical parasitic to a simulator at in some embodiments. The process or module may also comprises the process or module for performing one or more simulations using at least the provided electrical parasitic at in some embodiments. In some embodiments the electrical parasitic data associated with the physical data is provided to a matrix solver for static or transient analysis. The matrix solver is run to produce voltage and current data for device and interconnect components of the design. In some embodiments the method or system for implementing electronic circuit designs with simulation awareness comprises a flow where the simulator or solver is invoked after a single net has been created or modified.

In some embodiments the simulation or re simulation with electrical awareness may be performed during the schematic creation stage prior to physical design and may simply be stored for use during physical design. For example the interconnect routing creates a net that connects a series of device terminals through multiple segments that direct the current from one or more terminals to one or more terminals. The terminal currents define the current coming into and out of a particular net such as a signal net. In some embodiments a solver may be used to estimate the currents and voltages through the physical data e.g. wire segments via or via clusters.

The solver or the simulator may be part of the physical design tool software or flow or work from the same physical design database to enable more interactive feedback as the physical design is created or modified. The currents through each section of the net may be combined with the geometry of the wire for example width or via to compute a current density.

Some embodiments use the electrical parasitics associated with physical design to re simulate the design. In these embodiments the electrical parasitics may need to be mapped to the schematic representation or stitched into the schematic. The parasitics may also be reduced a form that allows for faster simulation in some embodiments and retain additional capacitance values for nets where more simulation accuracy is desired.

For example the electrical parasitics for one set of nets may have full sets of coupling capacitance values between nodes. One set may have only net to net coupling capacitances and other sets may only have the total cap and lump all coupling caps to ground. The simulation parameters such as temperature are matched with that used for extraction. The simulator provides parasitic aware set of electrical characteristics such as voltages and currents that are used for various checking or verification such as but not limited to EM checking or IR drop checking in subsequent processes. One embodiment is where re simulation of the layout parasitics is done in conjunction with various checking or verification and vice versa so that any impact of a circuit component is addressed before the layout is completed.

More details about the process or module for implementing electronic circuit designs with simulation awareness are provided in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 982 790 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH SIMULATION AWARENESS the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The process or module may also comprise the process or module for storing the raw processed or transformed simulation result s in a database or other types of data structure s in a non transitory computer readable storage medium at in some embodiments.

The process or module may also comprise the process or module for viewing sorting or comparing the stored simulation result s in a user interface at in some embodiments. The process or module may also comprise the process or module for comparing the pre physical design simulation result s with the post physical design simulation result s at directly after the process is performed or the module is invoked in some embodiments. More details about the process or module for implementing electronic circuit designs with simulation awareness are described in the related U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 790 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH SIMULATION AWARENESS the contents of which are hereby incorporated in their entirety in this instant Application.

The process or module for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness comprises the process or module for using a user interface of a computing node for performing various actions in some embodiments. The process or module may also comprise the process or module for identifying determining or updating physical data of a net a device or a component hereinafter a component collectively of an electronic circuit physical design in some embodiments.

In some embodiments the physical data may be related to a net which comprises one or more wires or interconnects connecting various other components together in an electronic circuit design. In some embodiment the physical data may be related to a single component in the physical design e.g. a layout of the electronic circuit. For example the method or the system may be applied to determine whether an interconnect segment complies with one or more electro migration related constraints. In this example the physical data may comprise for example the width the length the cross sectional area along the segment overlap of a metal object and via object etc. In some embodiments where the component comprises a wire segment the physical data for a wire segment may comprise the material e.g. Copper Aluminum or Tungsten one or more physical attributes such as the thermal conductivity surface boundary activation energy etc. and or one or more electrical attributes such as the electrical conductance Blech distance or electrical resistivity.

In some embodiments the physical data may be related to a device which comprises a component that comprises a source and a drain. A device may comprise for example a field effect transistor. In this example the physical data may comprise the description of physical device layers and geometric descriptions that define the gate source and drain regions. In various embodiments the physical data may further comprise the material and its associated physical e.g. physical or electrical attributes. In various embodiments the method or system may characterize shapes associated with a net and need to determine connectivity to identify one net from another.

In some embodiments the process for identifying determining or updating physical data of a net a device or a component of an electronic circuit physical design are invoked from within a physical design tool or flow such as a layout editor while the designer is implementing or modifying the physical design of the electronic circuit rather than from a post layout verification tool or flow. In some embodiments device recognition and connectivity tasks are performed to able to map electrical characteristics such as current at a given terminal with the proper nets attached to that terminal. In some embodiments connectivity can be directed to traverse the nets hierarchically and stop on levels determined by the user.

The process or module may further comprise the process or module for characterizing an electrical parasitic that is associated with the physical data that are identified determined or updated at in some embodiments. In some embodiments the process or module may further comprise the process or module for providing the electrical parasitic to a simulator and a process or module for characterizing the electrical characteristic that is associated with the parasitic and or the physical data.

In some embodiments the electrical parasitic comprises resistance self or coupled inductance or capacitance that is associated with the physical data. In the example of an interconnect segment in a physical design the method or the system may characterize the resistance of this particular interconnect segment by using the electrical resistivity the length of the segment and the cross sectional area along the segment. In some embodiments the system monitors and tracks the relevant physical data associated with the creation or change to the design for example the creation of a net or the widening of a wire segment in a net.

Resistance and capacitance models may be applied automatically to compute the parasitic data in some embodiments. Thus parasitics may be generated interactively as physical design objects have been or are being created or modified. The set of partial design objects including a set of one or more objects in the electronic circuit design that is interactively analyzed may form a partial layout in some embodiments. In various embodiments a partial layout comprises zero or more physical design objects and thus does not pass a layout versus schematic LVS check or verification. The results of various characterization processes or modules may be stored for use with subsequent electrical analysis processes or may additionally be displayed in parasitic form s in one or more embodiments.

The simulation produced terminal currents may be used as one or more nets that connect to these terminals are being created or modified in some embodiments. In addition these characterization s or verification s may occur while there is only a partial layout in some embodiments. In these embodiments the simulation re simulation characterization or verification of the electrical parasitics may be performed in conjunction with the creation or modification of the physical design of an electronic circuit design so that any impact of a circuit component is addressed before the physical design is completed.

In one or more embodiments the characterization of parasitics such as but not limited to various types of R L or C for one or more shapes that constitute a net and the subsequent characterization of the electrical behavior or characteristic s such as but not limited to various types of currents voltages or current densities as well as the constraint verification occur as a single net or one or more shapes that are part of a net has been created or modified but before the creation or modification of the next net or one or more shapes that are part of the next net. These characterizations or verification may also occur incrementally as a net is being created or modified in some embodiments. The simulation produced terminal currents may be used as one or more nets that connect to these terminals are being created or modified in some embodiments. In addition or in the alternative these characterizations or verification may occur while there is only a partial layout in some embodiments. In these embodiments the simulation re simulation characterization or verification of the electrical parasitics may be performed in conjunction with the creation or modification of the physical design of an electronic circuit design so that any impact of a circuit component is addressed before the physical design is completed.

More details about the process or module for implementing electronic circuit designs with EM awareness are described in the related U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 762 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRO MIGRATION AWARENESS the contents of which are hereby expressly incorporated in their entirety.

In some embodiments the process or module for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness may further comprise the process or module of characterizing the electrical characteristic that is associated with the electrical parasitic at . In some embodiments the process or module for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration EM awareness may further comprise the process or module of identifying or determining an EM related constraint that is associated with the electrical characteristic at . In some embodiments the process or module for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness may further comprise the process or module of ensuring correctness of the physical data or other data related to the EM related constraint at .

In some embodiments the process or module for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness may further comprise the process or module of computing or determining one or more adjustments or providing one or more hints to correct the physical data at in these embodiments where the EM related constraint is not met. In some embodiments the process or module for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness may further comprise the process or module of checking or determining to ensure that the one or more adjustments computed or determined at do not violate other design rules constraints or requirements at . In some embodiments the process or module for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness may further comprise the process or module of applying at least some of the one or more adjustments to fix the physical data or displaying the one or more hints to the user at . In some embodiments the process or module of applying at least some of the one or more adjustments is performed as a part of a placement process or a routing process or is invoked as a part of the placement module or the routing module. In some embodiments after the process is performed or the module is invoked the process or module for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness may loop back to to further identify determine or update the physical data or additional physical data and repeats the processes or modules as described above until satisfactory results are obtained.

More details about the process or module for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness are further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 762 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRO MIGRATION AWARENESS the contents of which are hereby expressly incorporated by reference in their entirety in this instant Application.

In some embodiments the process for identifying determining or updating physical data of a component of an electronic circuit physical design may be invoked from within a physical design tool or flow such as a layout editor while the designer is implementing or modifying the physical design of the electronic circuit rather than from a post layout verification tool or flow. In some embodiments device recognition and connectivity tasks are performed to able to map electrical characteristics such as current at a given terminal with the proper nets attached to that terminal. In some embodiments connectivity can be directed to traverse the nets hierarchically and stop on levels determined by the user.

The process or module may also comprise the process or module for characterizing the electrical parasitic that is associated with the physical data at in some embodiments. The process or module may also comprise the process or module for characterizing the electrical characteristic that is associated with the electrical parasitic and or the physical data at in some embodiments. The process or module may also comprise the process or module for storing the electrical characteristic associated with the electrical parasitic or the physical data in a non transitory computer readable storage medium or displaying the electrical characteristic or other related data on a display apparatus at in some embodiments.

In one or more embodiments the characterization of parasitics such as but not limited to various types of R L or C for shapes that constitute a net at and the subsequent characterization of the electrical behavior or characteristic s such as but not limited to various types of currents voltages or current densities at occur as a net or one or more shapes that are part of a net is created or modified but before the creation or modification of the next net or one or more shapes that are part of the next net. This characterization may occur incrementally as each net is being created or modified and may occur while there is only a partial layout in some embodiments. The simulation produced terminal currents may be used as one or more nets that connect to these terminals are being created or modified in some embodiments.

In some embodiments the process or module for implementing electronic circuit designs with electro migration awareness may further comprise the process or module of characterizing the electrical characteristic that is associated with the electrical parasitic at . In some embodiments the process or module for implementing electronic circuit designs with IR drop awareness may further comprise the process or module of identifying or determining an IR drop related constraint that is associated with the electrical characteristic at . In some embodiments the process or module for implementing electronic circuit designs with IR drop awareness may further comprise the process or module of ensuring correctness of the physical data or other data related to the IR drop related constraint at .

In some embodiments the process or module for implementing electronic circuit designs with IR drop awareness may further comprise the process or module of computing or determining one or more adjustments or providing one or more hints to correct the physical data at in these embodiments where the IR drop related constraint is not met. In some embodiments the process or module for implementing electronic circuit deigns with IR drop awareness may further comprise the process or module of checking or determining to ensure that the one or more adjustments computed or determined at do not violate other design rules constraints or requirements at .

In some embodiments the process or module for implementing electronic circuit designs with IR drop awareness may further comprise the process or module of applying at least some of the one or more adjustments to fix the physical data or displaying the one or more hints to the user at . In some embodiments after the process is performed or the module is invoked the process or module for implementing electronic circuit designs with IR drop awareness may loop back to to further identify determine or update the physical data or additional physical data and repeats the processes or modules as described above until satisfactory results are obtained.

More details about the process or module for implementing electronic circuit designs with IR drop awareness are further described in U.S. Provisional App. Ser. No. 61 367 406 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURES FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH IR DROP AWARENESS and filed on Jul. 24 2010 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety in this instant application.

The process or module for providing in situ customizable information in a user interface may further comprise the process or module of determining and displaying an in situ customizable response to the manipulation in the first display portion at in some embodiments. The process or module for providing in situ customizable information in a user interface may further comprise the process or module of displaying one or more results relating to the electrical parasitic s the electrical characteristic s and or the physical data of the portion of the physical design or other elements of the design that are affected by the manipulation at in some embodiments. In some embodiments the user interface comprises a graphical user interface for a physical domain electronic circuit design tool or a circuit layout editor .

More details about the process or module for providing in situ customizable information for implementing electronic circuit designs with electrical awareness are further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 628 entitled METHOD APPARATUS AND ARTICLE OF MANUFACTURE FOR PROVIDING IN SITU CUSTOMIZABLE INFORMATION IN DESIGNING ELECTRONIC CIRCUITS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety in this instant Application.

The process or module may further comprise the process or module for characterizing an electrical parasitic that is associated with the physical data of the component at in some embodiments. The process or module may further comprise the process or module for comparing the electrical parasitic with one or more corresponding parasitic constraints at after the electrical parasitic is characterized at in some embodiments. The process or module may further comprise the process or module for identifying or receiving a parasitic from for example a user at in some embodiments. After the parasitic constraint is received or identified at the process or module may proceed to to compare the electrical parasitic that is characterized at with the parasitic constraint that is received or identified at in some embodiments.

In one or more embodiments the characterization of parasitics such as but not limited to various types of R L or C for one or more shapes that constitute a net and the subsequent characterization of the electrical behavior or characteristic s such as but not limited to various types of currents voltages or current densities as well as the constraint verification occur as a single net or one or more shapes that are part of a net has been created or modified but before the creation or modification of the next net or one or more shapes that are part of the next net. These characterizations or verification may also occur incrementally as a net is being created or modified in some embodiments. The simulation produced terminal currents may be used as one or more nets that connect to these terminals are being created or modified in some embodiments. In addition these characterizations or verification may occur while there is only a partial layout in some embodiments. In these embodiments the simulation re simulation characterization or verification of the electrical parasitics may be performed in conjunction with the creation or modification of the physical design of an electronic circuit design so that any impact of a circuit component is addressed before the physical design is completed.

The process or module for constraint verification for implementing electronic circuit designs with electrical awareness may further comprise the process or module for identifying determining or updating physical data of a net a device or a component of an electronic circuit physical design at in some embodiments. The process or module may also comprise the process or module for characterizing the electrical parasitic associated with the physical data at in some embodiments. After the process or module or the process or module the process or module may also proceed to compare the electrical parasitic with the parasitic constraint at in some embodiments.

The process or module may also comprise the process or module for computing one or more adjustments or providing one or more hints to correct the physical data at in some embodiments where the parasitic constraint is not met. The process or module may further comprise the process or module for determining or checking to ensure the one or more adjustments or the one or more hints do not violate other constraints design rules or requirements at in some embodiments. The process or module may further comprise the process or module for applying at least one of the one or more adjustments to the component with which the physical data are associated at .

More details about the process or module for constraint verification for implementing electronic circuit designs with electrical awareness are further described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 732 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR CONSTRAINT VERIFICATION FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety in this instant Application.

According to one embodiment computer system performs specific operations by one or more processor or processor cores executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in system memory . Such instructions may be read into system memory from another computer readable usable storage medium such as static storage device or disk drive . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and or software. In one embodiment the term logic shall mean any combination of software or hardware that is used to implement all or part of the invention.

Various actions or processes as described in the preceding paragraphs may be performed by using one or more processors one or more processor cores or combination thereof where the one or more processors one or more processor cores or combination thereof executes one or more threads. For example the act of specifying various net or terminal sets or the act or module of performing verification or simulation etc. may be performed by one or more processors one or more processor cores or combination thereof.

The term computer readable storage medium or computer usable storage medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory .

Common forms of computer readable storage media includes for example electromechanical disk drives such as a floppy disk a flexible disk or a hard disk a flash based RAM based such as SRAM DRAM SDRAM DDR MRAM etc. or any other solid state drives SSD magnetic tape any other magnetic or magneto optical medium CD ROM any other optical medium any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read.

In an embodiment of the invention execution of the sequences of instructions to practice the invention is performed by a single computer system . According to other embodiments of the invention two or more computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. LAN PTSN or wireless network may perform the sequence of instructions required to practice the invention in coordination with one another.

Computer system may transmit and receive messages data and instructions including program i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in disk drive or other non volatile storage for later execution. In an embodiment the computer system operates in conjunction with a data storage system e.g. a data storage system that contains a database that is readily accessible by the computer system . The computer system communicates with the data storage system through a data interface . A data interface which is coupled to the bus transmits and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that include data streams representing various types of signal information e.g. instructions messages and data. In embodiments of the invention the functions of the data interface may be performed by the communication interface .

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. For example the above described process flows are described with reference to a particular ordering of process actions. However the ordering of many of the described process actions may be changed without affecting the scope or operation of the invention. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

