---

title: Speed limit change notification
abstract: Techniques are described that may be implemented in a mobile electronic device providing navigation functionality to furnish a notification that the indicated speed limit of a roadway being traversed has changed. In an implementation, the display of the mobile electronic device is configured to display navigation information including a roadway graphic representing a roadway being traversed by the mobile electronic device and a speed limit indicator graphic for indicating the speed limit associated with the roadway. When a change in the indicated speed limit is encountered, an attribute of the navigation information is temporarily altered to provide a notification of the change.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08258978&OS=08258978&RS=08258978
owner: Garmin Switzerland GmbH
number: 08258978
owner_city: 
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20100519
---
Because of their relatively small size and form mobile electronic devices such as personal navigation devices PNDs smart phones mobile phones personal digital assistants PDAs and so forth offer several practical advantages with respect to providing maps and map related content to a user. For example because of their small form and consequent portability mobile electronic devices are capable of providing real time navigational instructions to users in a convenient fashion while the users are in route to a destination.

Often the map data employed by such mobile electronic devices to provide navigation functionality includes speed limit information for roadways traversed by the user. The speed limit information may be displayed by the mobile electronic device to inform the user of the speed limit of the roadway being traversed. In this manner the user may be made aware of the speed limit without resort to signs posted along the roadway which often may not be easily viewable due to weather conditions traffic and so on.

Techniques are described that may be implemented in a mobile electronic device providing navigation functionality to furnish a notification that the indicated speed limit of a roadway being traversed has changed. In an implementation the display of the mobile electronic device is configured to display navigation information including a roadway graphic representing a roadway being traversed and a speed limit indicator graphic for indicating the speed limit associated with the roadway. When a change in the indicated speed limit is encountered an attribute of navigation information is temporarily altered to provide a notification of the change.

This Summary is provided solely to introduce subject matter that is fully described in the Detailed Description and Drawings. Accordingly the Summary should not be considered to describe essential features nor be used to determine scope of the claims.

Increasingly map data employed by mobile electronic devices providing navigation functionality may include speed limit information for roadways that are traversed by the user of the device. Thus where speed limit information is available the posted speed limit for a section of the roadway being traversed may be displayed by the device within a speed limit indicator graphic. However the speed limit indicated by the speed limit indicator graphic is often used in a reactionary manner in that the user of the mobile electronic device typically references the speed limit indicator only when he or she is unsure of the speed limit for the section of roadway being traversed.

Accordingly techniques are described that may be implemented in the mobile electronic device to furnish an easily discernable visual notification that the indicated speed limit of a roadway being traversed has changed or is about to change. In an implementation the display of the mobile electronic device is configured to display navigation information including a map a roadway graphic representing a roadway being traversed by the mobile electronic device displayed on the map and a speed limit indicator graphic for indicating the speed limit associated with the roadway. When a change in the indicated speed limit associated with the roadway is encountered an attribute of the navigation information is temporarily altered to provide a notification of the change. In embodiments the attribute is changed in a manner that indicates the type of change in the indicated speed limit displayed in the speed limit indicator graphic. For instance the hue of the map or the speed limit indicator graphic may be temporarily changed from a default color to a second color such as red when the indicated speed limit decreases to a third color such as green when the indicated speed limit increases and or to a fourth color such as yellow when speed limit information is not available for the section of roadway being traversed.

The techniques described herein thus allow the mobile electronic device to visually and or audibly notify a user of the device who may be operating a vehicle of an actual or expected change in the indicated speed limit and thus the speed limit of the roadway. In this manner the techniques allow the user to slow the vehicle when a reduced speed limit is encountered e.g. to avoid a traffic violation to accelerate the vehicle when an increased speed limit is encountered e.g. to shorten drive time and or to give greater attention to signs along the roadway when speed limit information is not available for the roadway being traversed.

In the following discussion an example mobile electronic device environment is first described. Exemplary procedures are then described that may be employed with the example environment as well as with other environments and devices without departing from the spirit and scope thereof. Example display screens of the mobile electronic device are then described that may be employed in the illustrated environment as well as in other environments without departing from the spirit and scope thereof.

In the mobile electronic device is illustrated as including a processor and a memory . The processor provides processing functionality for the mobile electronic device and may include any number of processors micro controllers or other processing systems and resident or external memory for storing data and other information accessed or generated by the mobile electronic device . The processor may execute one or more software programs which implement the techniques and modules described herein. The processor is not limited by the materials from which it is formed or the processing mechanisms employed therein and as such may be implemented via semiconductor s and or transistors e.g. electronic integrated circuits ICs and so forth.

The memory is an example of device readable storage media that provides storage functionality to store various data associated with the operation of the mobile electronic device such as the software program and code segments mentioned above or other data to instruct the processor and other elements of the mobile electronic device to perform the techniques described herein. Although a single memory is shown a wide variety of types and combinations of memory may be employed. The memory may be integral with the processor stand alone memory or a combination of both. The memory may include for example removable and non removable memory elements such as RAM ROM Flash e.g. SD Card mini SD card micro SD Card magnetic optical USB memory devices and so forth. In embodiments of the mobile electronic device the memory may include removable ICC Integrated Circuit Card memory such as provided by SIM Subscriber Identity Module cards USIM Universal Subscriber Identity Module cards UICC Universal Integrated Circuit Cards and so on.

The mobile electronic device is further illustrated as including functionality to determine position. For example mobile electronic device may receive signal data transmitted by one or more position data platforms and or position data transmitters examples of which are depicted as the GPS satellites . More particularly mobile electronic device may include a position determining module that may manage and process signal data received from Global Positioning System GPS satellites via a GPS receiver . The position determining module is representative of functionality operable to determine a geographic position through processing of the received signal data . The signal data may include various data suitable for use in position determination such as timing signals ranging signals ephemerides almanacs and so forth.

Position determining module may also be configured to provide a variety of other position determining functionality. Position determining functionality for purposes of discussion herein may relate to a variety of different navigation techniques and other techniques that may be supported by knowing one or more positions. For instance position determining functionality may be employed to provide position location information timing information speed information and a variety of other navigation related data. Accordingly the position determining module may be configured in a variety of ways to perform a wide variety of functions. For example the position determining module may be configured for outdoor navigation vehicle navigation aerial navigation e.g. for airplanes helicopters marine navigation personal use e.g. as a part of fitness related equipment and so forth. Accordingly the position determining module may include a variety of devices to determine position using one or more of the techniques previously described.

The position determining module for instance may use signal data received via the GPS receiver in combination with map data that is stored in the memory to generate navigation instructions e.g. turn by turn instructions to an input destination or POI show a current position on a map and so on. Position determining module may include one or more antennas to receive signal data as well as to perform other communications such as communication via one or more networks described in more detail below. The position determining module may also provide other position determining functionality such as to determine an average speed calculate an arrival time and so on.

Although a GPS system is described and illustrated in relation to it should be apparent that a wide variety of other positioning systems may also be employed such as other global navigation satellite systems GNSS terrestrial based systems e.g. wireless phone based systems that broadcast position data from cellular towers wireless networks that transmit positioning signals and so on. For example positioning determining functionality may be implemented through the use of a server in a server based architecture from a ground based infrastructure through one or more sensors e.g. gyros odometers and magnetometers use of dead reckoning techniques and so on.

The mobile electronic device includes a display to display information to a user of the mobile electronic device . In embodiments the display may comprise an LCD Liquid Crystal Diode display a TFT Thin Film Transistor LCD display an LEP Light Emitting Polymer or PLED Polymer Light Emitting Diode display and so forth configured to display text and or graphical information such as a graphical user interface. The display may be backlit via a backlight such that it may be viewed in the dark or other low light environments.

The display may be provided with a touch screen for entry of data and commands. For example a user may operate the mobile electronic device by touching the touch screen and or by performing gestures on the screen . In some embodiments the touch screen may be a capacitive touch screen a resistive touch screen an infrared touch screen combinations thereof and the like. The mobile electronic device may further include one or more input output I O devices e.g. a keypad buttons a wireless input device a thumbwheel input device a trackstick input device and so on . The I O devices may include one or more audio I O devices such as a microphone speakers and so on.

The mobile electronic device may also include a communication module representative of communication functionality to permit mobile electronic device to send receive data between different devices e.g. components peripherals and or over the one or more networks . Communication module may be representative of a variety of communication components and functionality including but not limited to one or more antennas a browser a transmitter and or receiver a wireless radio data ports software interfaces and drivers networking interfaces data processing components and so forth.

The one or more networks are representative of a variety of different communication pathways and network connections which may be employed individually or in combinations to communicate among the components of the environment . Thus the one or more networks may be representative of communication pathways achieved using a single network or multiple networks. Further the one or more networks are representative of a variety of different types of networks and connections that are contemplated including but not limited to the Internet an intranet a satellite network a cellular network a mobile data network wired and or wireless connections and so forth.

Examples of wireless networks include but are not limited to networks configured for communications according to one or more standard of the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE such as 802.11 or 802.16 Wi Max standards Wi Fi standards promulgated by the Wi Fi Alliance Bluetooth standards promulgated by the Bluetooth Special Interest Group and so on. Wired communications are also contemplated such as through universal serial bus USB Ethernet serial connections and so forth.

The mobile electronic device through functionality represented by the communication module may be configured to communicate via one or more networks with a cellular provider and an Internet provider to receive mobile phone service and various content respectively. Content may represent a variety of different content examples of which include but are not limited to map data which may include speed limit data web pages services music photographs video email service instant messaging device drivers instruction updates and so forth.

The mobile electronic device may further include an orientation sensor that represents functionality to determine various manual manipulation of the device . Orientation sensor may be configured in a variety of ways to provide signals to enable detection of different manual manipulation of the mobile electronic device including detecting orientation motion speed impact and so forth. For example orientation sensor may be representative of various components used alone or in combination such as an accelerometer gyroscope velocimeter capacitive or resistive touch sensor and so on.

The mobile electronic device of may be provided with an integrated camera that is configured to capture media such as still photographs and or video by digitally recording images using an electronic image sensor. Media captured by the camera may be stored as digital image files in memory . In embodiments the digital image files may be stored using a variety of file formats. For example digital photographs may be stored using a Joint Photography Experts Group standard JPEG file format. Other digital image file formats include Tagged Image File Format TIFF Raw data formats and so on. Digital video may be stored using a Motion Picture Experts Group MPEG file format an Audio Video Interleave AVI file format a Digital Video DV file format a Windows Media Video WMV format and so forth. Exchangeable image file format Exif data may be included with digital image files to provide metadata about the image media. For example Exif data may include the date and time the image media was captured the location where the media was captured and the like. Digital image media may be displayed by display and or transmitted to other devices via a network e.g. via an email or MMS text message .

The mobile electronic device is illustrated as including a user interface which is storable in memory and executable by the processor . The user interface is representative of functionality to control the display of information and data to the user of the mobile electronic device via the display . In some implementations the display may not be integrated into the mobile electronic device and may instead be connected externally using universal serial bus USB Ethernet serial connections and so forth. The user interface may provide functionality to allow the user to interact with one or more applications of the mobile electronic device by providing inputs via the touch screen and or the I O devices . For example the user interface may cause an application programming interface API to be generated to expose functionality to an application to configure the application for display by the display or in combination with another display. In embodiments the API may further expose functionality to configure the application to allow the user to interact with an application by providing inputs via the touch screen and or the I O devices .

Applications may comprise software which is storable in memory and executable by the processor to perform a specific operation or group of operations to furnish functionality to the mobile electronic device . Example applications may include cellular telephone applications instant messaging applications email applications photograph sharing applications calendar applications address book applications and so forth.

In implementations the user interface may include a browser . The browser enables the mobile electronic device to display and interact with content such as a webpage within the World Wide Web a webpage provided by a web server in a private network and so forth. The browser may be configured in a variety of ways. For example the browser may be configured as an application accessed by the user interface . The browser may be a web browser suitable for use by a full resource device with substantial memory and processor resources e.g. a smart phone a personal digital assistant PDA etc. . However in one or more implementations the browser may be a mobile browser suitable for use by a low resource device with limited memory and or processing resources e.g. a mobile telephone a portable music device a transportable entertainment device etc. . Such mobile browsers typically conserve memory and processor resources but may offer fewer browser functions than web browsers.

The mobile electronic device is illustrated as including a navigation module which is storable in memory and executable by the processor . The navigation module represents functionality to access map data that is stored in the memory to provide mapping and navigation functionality to the user of the mobile electronic device . For example the navigation module may generate navigation information that includes maps and or map related content for display by display device . As used herein map related content includes information associated with maps generated by the navigation module and may include speed limit information POIs information associated with POIs map legends controls for manipulation of a map e.g. scroll pan etc. street views aerial satellite views and the like displayed on or as a supplement to one or more maps.

In one or more implementations the navigation module is configured to utilize the map data to generate navigation information that includes maps and or map related content for display by the mobile electronic device independently of content sources external to the mobile electronic device . Thus for example the navigation module may be capable of providing mapping and navigation functionality when access to external content is not available through network . It is contemplated however that the navigation module may also be capable of accessing a variety of content via the network to generate navigation information including maps and or map related content for display by the mobile electronic device in one or more implementations.

The navigation module may be configured in a variety of ways. For example the navigation module may be configured as an application accessed by the user interface . The navigation module may utilize position data determined by the position determining module to show a current position of the user e.g. the mobile electronic device on a displayed map furnish navigation instructions e.g. turn by turn instructions to an input destination or POI calculate driving distances and times cargo load regulations and so on.

As shown in the navigation module may cause the display of the mobile electronic device to be configured to display navigation information that includes a map which may be a moving map that includes a roadway graphic representing a roadway being traversed by a user of the mobile electronic device e.g. by a vehicle operated by the user in or on which the mobile electronic device is mounted or carried or some combination thereof . The roadway represented by the roadway graphic can comprise without limitation any navigable path trail road street pike highway tollway freeway interstate highway combinations thereof or the like that may be traversed by a user of the mobile electronic device . It is contemplated that a roadway may include two or more linked but otherwise distinguishable roadways traversed by a user of the mobile electronic device . For example a roadway may include a first highway a street intersecting the highway and an off ramp linking the highway to the street. Other examples are possible.

The mobile electronic device is also illustrated as including a speed limit display module which is storable in memory and executable by the processor . The speed limit display module is representative of functionality to cause speed limits to be displayed by the mobile electronic device for roadways traversed by the mobile electronic device . For example the speed limit display module may cause a speed limit indicator graphic to be provided as part of the navigation information e.g. on the map that is displayed by the navigation module . The speed limit indicator graphic may be displayed in a variety of ways. For example the speed limit indicator graphic may be displayed as a speed limit sign icon located in a fixed location over the map e.g. the lower right hand corner of the map the upper left hand corner of the map or in an impermanent location over map . The speed limit indicator graphic may also be displayed in association with the roadway graphic depicting the roadway being traversed by the user of the mobile electronic device e.g. adjacent to the roadway graphic pinned to the roadway graphic and so on . The speed limit indicator graphic may further be displayed within a dashboard display or like graphic associated with the map and so on.

The speed limit display module may be configured in a variety of ways. For example as shown the speed limit display module may be configured as a component of the navigation module e.g. as a software routine or software module that is part of the navigation module . The speed limit display module may also be configured as a separate application accessed by the user interface .

The speed limit display module may acquire speed limit information from a variety of sources. For example speed limit information may be retrieved from map data stored in memory . However the speed limit information may also be acquired from content accessed via the network and so on. In embodiments the speed limit information is geo referenced e.g. cross referenced with geo spatial coordinate information e.g. latitude longitude altitude and so on to identify the posted speed limits along particular sections of roadways. The speed limit display module may thus ascertain the speed limit for a section of roadway being traversed by the user by comparing the geo referenced speed limit information with the geographic position determined by the position determining module . The speed limit display module may further detect changes of the speed limit associated with the roadway as the roadway is traversed so that the speed limit displayed by the speed limit indicator graphic remains current. A variety of techniques such as map matching and so on may be employed to match the geographic position to the geo referenced speed limit information.

The speed limit display module is illustrated as including a notification module which like the speed limit display module is storable in memory and executable by the processor . The notification module is representative of functionality to furnish a notification to a user of the mobile electronic device that the indicated speed limit for the roadway being traversed e.g. the speed limit displayed by the speed limit indicator graphic has changed or is about to change.

In an implementation the notification module includes functionality to detect changes in the indicated speed limit . For example the notification module may receive an indication of a change in the indicated speed limit from the speed limit display module . In response the notification module may cause an attribute of the navigation information displayed by the navigation module to be temporarily altered thereby furnishing a visible notification alerting the user of the mobile electronic device to the change in the indicated speed limit . In some implementations the reduced speed limit or warning message may be displayed in the center of the display area and or it may momentarily fill the screen.

Attributes of the navigation information that can be changed comprise any discernable visual aspect feature or characteristic of the navigation information including but not limited to the hue color of the map the brightness of map displayed by the display the hue color size and or shape of the speed limit indicator graphic the hue color size and or shape of the of the dashboard display associated with the map an icon displayed over the map text displayed over the map and so on. Thus a variety of attributes of the navigation information may be altered by the notification module . In one example the notification module may cause the hue of the map to be momentarily changed from a default color e.g. tan blue white etc. to a second color e.g. red when the indicated speed limit is reduced and to a third color e.g. green when the indicated speed limit increased. Similarly the notification module may cause the hue of the speed limit indicator graphic to be momentarily changed from a default color e.g. tan blue white etc. to a second color e.g. red when the indicated speed limit is reduced and to a third color e.g. green when the indicated speed limit increased. The size of the speed limit indicator graphic may also be temporarily increased. Other attributes of the map may likewise be altered due to changes caused by the notification module .

It is contemplated that speed limit information may not be available for some roadways or sections of roadways. For example map data retrieved from memory by the speed limit display module may lack speed limit information for one or more roadways being traversed during navigation to a desired location. In such instances the speed limit display module may cause the indicated speed limit to be replaced with one or more question marks to indicate that speed limit information is not available for the section of the roadway currently being traversed. To further alert the user to the lack of speed limit information the notification module may cause an attribute of the navigation information to be temporarily altered to provide a visible notification. The notification module may for example cause the hue of the map and or the speed limit indicator graphic to be momentarily changed to a fourth color e.g. yellow .

In some instances the indicated speed limit may be changed because the speed limit of a section of the roadway is temporarily reduced due to construction on the roadway. For example the communication module may be configured to receive traffic information configured to indicate construction zone speed limits cross referenced with geo spatial coordinate information e.g. latitude longitude altitude and so on . Such functionality enables updating of the speed limit information in the map data . The speed limit information stored in memory may be received as content accessed via the network by the communication module . The speed limit display module may cause the speed limit indicator graphic to display the construction zone speed limit instead of the normal speed limit as the indicated speed limit while the user is within the construction zone e.g. as ascertained based on the geographic position of the mobile electronic device determined by the position determining module and to thereafter revert back to display of the normal speed limit when the construction zone is passed. The notification module may further cause an attribute of the navigation information to be temporarily altered to provide a visible notification that the indicated speed limit is changed to the construction zone speed limit. The notification module may for example cause the hue e.g. color of the map and or the speed limit indicator graphic to be momentarily changed to a fifth color e.g. orange .

The notification module may cause the intensity the duration or the frequency of the attribute to be varied in proportion to an amount of change in the indicated speed limit . For example the notification module may provide a first type of alert e.g. a flashing red hue for a large decrease in the indicated speed limit and a second type of alert e.g. a single flash of red hue for a smaller decrease in the indicated speed limit . A threshold speed limit decrease or increase may be used to determine the type of alert provided. For example the first type of alert may be provided for decreases in the indicated speed limit of more than 20 miles per hour mph e.g. from 75 mph to 45 mph and the second type of alert may be provided for decreases in the indicated speed limit of less than 20 mph e.g. from 40 mph to 35 mph . Other examples are possible.

By altering the attributes of the displayed navigation information the present techniques furnish a highly discernable visual notification to alert the user to the speed limit change without unnecessarily distracting the user from other tasks such as driving the vehicle. For example in implementations the present techniques allow the map and or speed limit indicator graphic to be made to appear to flash red one or more times when the speed limit is reduced flash green one or more time when the speed limit is increased flash yellow when speed limit information is unavailable e.g. when transitioning to a roadway for which speed limit information is not provided in the map data flash orange when the speed limit is reduced due to construction and so on.

Audible warnings denoting the change in the indicated speed limit may also be furnished to the user in addition to or in place of the visual notification provided by the altered map attribute. For example the notification module may be configured to cause a speaker e.g. an I O device to play an audible sound or warning e.g. a short tone the spoken phrase The speed limit has decreased to 45 miles per hour and so on to alert the user to a change in the indicated speed limit .

In various embodiments the mobile electronic device may be configured to alert the user to the change in the indicated speed limit by providing the notification at the time the indicated speed limit changes. In such embodiments the notification module is configured to temporarily change the display attribute of the navigation information when the determined geographic position of the mobile electronic device is at least approximately matched to the location where the speed limit associated with the roadway changes. For example in the notification scheme shown in the notification module may cause the map attribute to be altered at the precise point where the speed limit changes along the roadway e.g. at the point along the roadway where a vehicle operated by a user of the mobile electronic device passes a speed limit sign posting the new speed limit .

Additionally or alternatively the mobile electronic device can be configured to give an advance warning prior to the change in the indicated speed limit . In such embodiments the notification module is configured to temporarily change the display attribute of the map when the determined geographic position is within a predetermined or dynamically calculated distance of the location where the speed limit associated with the roadway changes. For example in the notification scheme shown in the notification module may cause the map attribute to be altered at a distance D prior to the point where the speed limit changes along the roadway e.g. a distance D prior to the point along the roadway where the vehicle passes the speed limit sign posting the new speed limit .

In one or more embodiments the distance D may be a predetermined fixed distance e.g. 100 yards 0.10 miles etc. . However the notification module may also be configured to furnish dynamic advanced warnings suitable for the particular driving conditions encountered presently traversed route and or expected user path. For example the notification module may calculate the distance D based on various factors such as the speed of the vehicle the necessary acceleration deceleration required based on the current and future speed limits e.g. a greater advance warning may be provided for a speed limit decrease from 60 mph to 45 mph than a speed limit decrease from 60 mph to 55 mph user driving habits calculated route information road categories e.g. a greater advance warning may be provided for highway speed limit changes than for residential speed changes road conditions weather conditions traffic conditions time of day extent of curves on the road being traversed and so on.

Generally any of the functions described herein can be implemented using software firmware hardware e.g. fixed logic circuitry manual processing or a combination of these implementations. The terms module and functionality as used herein generally represent software firmware hardware or a combination thereof. The communication between modules in the mobile electronic device of can be wired wireless or some combination thereof. In the case of a software implementation for instance the module represents executable instructions that perform specified tasks when executed on a processor such as the processor with the mobile electronic device of . The program code can be stored in one or more device readable storage media an example of which is the memory associated with the mobile electronic device of .

The following discussion describes procedures that may be implemented in a mobile electronic device providing navigation functionality. Aspects of the procedures may be implemented in hardware firmware or software or a combination thereof. The procedures are shown as a set of blocks that specify operations performed by one or more devices and are not necessarily limited to the orders shown for performing the operations by the respective blocks. In portions of the following discussion reference may be made to the environment of . The features of techniques described below are platform independent meaning that the techniques may be implemented on a variety of commercial mobile electronic device platforms having a variety of processors.

As the user traverses the roadway the indicated speed limit displayed by the speed limit indicator graphic is updated Block to reflect the changes in speed limit of the roadway. For instance in the implementation illustrated speed limit information may be retrieved Block to identify locations where the speed limits of the roadway change. The speed limit information may be retrieved from a variety of sources. For example geo referenced speed limit information may be retrieved from map data from content accessed via the network and so on. The geo referenced speed limit information includes information identifying speed limits associated with mapped roadways and or locations along the roadways where the speed limits change cross referenced with geo spatial coordinate information e.g. latitude longitude altitude and so on . As the user traverses the roadway the geographic position of the mobile electronic device is periodically determined Block . For example the geographic position of the mobile electronic device may be determined by the position determining module signal data transmitted by position data platforms position data transmitters such as GPS satellites and or content accessed via the network . The geographic position is compared with the speed limit information for the roadway Block using techniques such as map matching or the like to detect when a change in the speed limit of the roadway is encountered Decision Block . When a change in the speed limit is encountered YES from Decision Block the speed limit indicator graphic is updated to display the new speed limit Block . Otherwise NO from Decision Block a new geographic position is determined Block for comparison with the speed limit information for the roadway Block .

When the speed limit indicated by the speed limit indicator graphic is updated Block an attribute of the navigation information is temporarily altered to provide a notification of the change Block as discussed in the description of .

When the user is traversing a roadway in an area with an applicable minimum speed limit or a change in the minimum speed limit the mobile electronic device may additionally or alternatively warn the user of the change in the minimum speed limit and or indicate the minimum speed limit.

In some embodiments the mobile electronic device may notify the user of changes in the speed limit for construction zones school zones pedestrian zones bicycling zones off ramps and on ramps parking zones areas lacking roadway data unmarked roads driveways parking lots etc. and or other special purpose areas. For example the mobile electronic device may provide specific warnings for these various zones to indicate the nature of the change in speed limit such as by presenting a special visual and or audible cue for an upcoming school zone different than that used for typical speed limit changes. The mobile electronic device may also warn the user of the posted speed limits for entrance and exit ramps tight turns with posted speed limits combinations thereof and the like as the user approaches and or traverses through them.

In some embodiments the mobile electronic device may anticipate the user s future path based on a calculated route or expectations regarding the user s future path such as the user s roadway horizon and provide speed limit warnings based on the expected future path. By anticipating the user s future path advance warning may be given regarding changes in the posted speed limit even if the roadway corresponding to a changing speed limit is not directly in front of the user s current position.

The following discussion describes example display screens that may be generated using the processes and techniques discussed herein. Aspects of the display screens may be generated in hardware firmware software or a combination thereof. In portions of the following discussion reference will be made to the environment of the procedures of and or other example environments and procedures.

A speed limit indicator graphic is displayed over the map to indicate the speed limit associated with the roadway represented by the roadway graphic . In the implementations illustrated the speed limit indicator graphic is furnished as a speed limit sign icon pinned to the map near the bottom right corner of the map . However it is contemplated that the speed limit indicator graphic may have other formats and or may be displayed in a variety of ways on the map . For example the speed limit indicator graphic may be displayed at other locations on the map within a dashboard display associated with the map in association with a roadway graphic e.g. adjacent to the roadway graphic pinned to the roadway graphic etc. and so on.

In the hue color of the map is illustrated as being momentarily changed from a default color e.g. tan blue white etc. not pictured to a second color red when the indicated speed limit is reduced to a third color green when the indicated speed limit increased and to a fourth color yellow when speed limit information is not available . Similarly in the hue color of the speed limit indicator graphic is illustrated as being momentarily changed from a default color e.g. tan blue white etc. not pictured to a second color red when the indicated speed limit is reduced to a third color green when the indicated speed limit increased and to a fourth color yellow when speed limit information is not available . Additionally in the indicated speed limit is replaced with one or more question marks within the speed limit indicator graphic because the current speed limit is unknown.

In the size of the speed limit indicator graphic is momentarily increased from a normally displayed size to an enlarged size to furnish a notification of a decrease in the indicated speed limit e.g. a decrease in the indicated speed limit from 55 mph to 45 mph . Additionally the hue color of the speed limit indicator graphic is illustrated as being momentarily changed from a default color e.g. tan blue white etc. shown in to a second color red shown in .

Although techniques to furnish a notification that the speed limit of a roadway being traversed has changed have been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the appended claims are not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described. Rather the specific features and acts are disclosed as exemplary forms of implementing the claimed devices and techniques.

