---

title: Systems and methods for a communication protocol between a local controller and a master controller
abstract: Systems and methods for local management units in a photovoltaic energy system. In one embodiment, a method implemented in a computer system includes: attempting to communicate on a first active channel with a master management unit from a local management unit that controls a solar module; if communication with the master management unit on the first active channel has not been established, attempting to communicate on a second active channel with the master management unit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08773236&OS=08773236&RS=08773236
owner: Tigo Energy, Inc.
number: 08773236
owner_city: Los Gatos
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100930
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 335 004 filed Dec. 29 2009 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR AN ENHANCED PROTOCOL BETWEEN A LOCAL CONTROLLER AND A MASTER CONTROLLER by Makhota et al. the entire contents of which application is incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

At least some embodiments disclosed herein relate to photovoltaic systems in general and more particularly but not limited to management units used in the configuration or operation of a photovoltaic system.

The operation of one or more local management units in a photovoltaic energy system may be defined by a protocol. In particular the protocol is typically able to recover from various kinds of errors. For example the protocol may be self adjusting in the case of errors and other operational problems that may arise. Also the protocol may maintain certain safety aspects associated with the operation of the photovoltaic energy system e.g. a maximum operating voltage and other desired parameters .

Systems and methods for management units for use in the configuration or operation of a photovoltaic system are described herein. Some embodiments are summarized in this section.

In one embodiment a method implemented in a data processing system includes attempting to communicate from a first local management unit of a plurality of local management units on a first active channel with a master management unit each of the plurality of local management units coupled to control a respective solar module of a plurality of solar modules determining if communication with the master management unit on the first active channel has been established in response to a determination that the communication on the first active channel has not been established attempting to communicate on a second active channel with the master management unit the second active channel having a frequency different from the first active channel and determining if communication with the master management unit on the second active channel has been established.

The disclosure includes methods and apparatuses which perform these methods including data processing systems which perform these methods and computer readable media containing instructions which when executed on data processing systems cause the systems to perform these methods.

Other features will be apparent from the accompanying drawings and from the detailed description which follows.

The following description and drawings are illustrative and are not to be construed as limiting. Numerous specific details are described to provide a thorough understanding. However in certain instances well known or conventional details are not described in order to avoid obscuring the description. References to one or an embodiment in the present disclosure are not necessarily references to the same embodiment and such references mean at least one.

Reference in this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the disclosure. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment nor are separate or alternative embodiments mutually exclusive of other embodiments. Moreover various features are described which may be exhibited by some embodiments and not by others. Similarly various requirements are described which may be requirements for some embodiments but not other embodiments.

As used herein a solar cell is a photovoltaic device configured to absorb photons and convert them into electrical energy. A solar module is a device that includes at least one or more solar cells wherein the solar cells are connected in series or in parallel. A solar panel is one example of a solar module. The solar cells absorb photons and convert the photons into electrical energy. A power bus may be a conductive path connecting one or more solar modules in series.

At least some embodiments of the disclosure provide a system and method for the operation of distributed local management units LMUs in a photovoltaic energy system.

In one embodiment each LMU attempts to communicate on a first active channel with a master management unit. Each LMU is coupled to control one solar module of a plurality of solar modules in the system. If the communication with the master management unit on the first active channel has been established then the LMU proceeds to a configuration process. If the communication on the first active channel is not established i.e. fails for some reason the LMU attempts to communicate on a second active channel.

In one embodiment the second active channel has a frequency different from the first active channel. If communication with the master management unit on the second active channel is established then the LMU proceeds to the configuration process. If communication is not established after a predetermined total number of attempts or attempts on a predetermined number of channels then the LMU proceeds to an error handling process.

Each local management unit LMU has an antenna in this exemplary illustration only antennas and are numbered in for simplicity and clarity of illustration. Combiner box is typically used to combine the output of said multiple strings i.e. and of panels. Power busses and are connected to combiner box . For example combiner box may be used to house the wires connections etc. to combine the electricity generated from different solar panels strings subsystems etc. Combiner box is coupled to an inverter for example connected to power grid .

Master management unit MMU e.g. a master controller is coupled to control each of the LMUs e.g. by wireless communication via antennas and . MMU acts as a gateway connecting for example to the Internet via connection which may be wired land line Ethernet wireless or any other of various types of suitable connection. MMU may store configuration profiles in a local database. MMU may be updated or operated remotely from a remote server. For example new profiles may be downloaded to MMU using Internet .

In this example MMU has an antenna which is used to communicate with the distributed LMUs. In some embodiments one of the LMUs may act as the MMU for the system. The master management unit is typically powered by the solar panels. However it may be powered by alternative power sources such as power grid .

Power line may supply power to MMU and in some cases it could also transmit communications via power line communication between the MMU and LMUs instead of using wireless communication. However power line communication may exhibit problems similar to wireless communication such as radio frequency RF interferences and other effects that may benefit from the use of active channel selection as described below. One example of power line communication is discussed in U.S. Non Provisional Application Ser. No. 12 467 117 filed May 15 2009 entitled METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR CURRENT MODE POWER LINE COMMUNICATIONS by Leonid Rozenboim the entire contents of which application is incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

The structure as shown in is one specific type of configuration but other configurations may be used in other embodiments. For example other system configurations may be as follows 1 a set of solar panels each connected to a parallel bus via a local management unit 2 similarly as in but with each string further connected to a parallel bus via a string management unit. In general the operating protocol for the LMUs as described herein may be used with either a serial configuration i.e. strings of local management units or a parallel configuration i.e. local management units on a parallel bus .

In one embodiment an LMU may be provided for each solar panel so that when the solar panels are connected into a system via the LMUs the efficiency of the system as a whole is increased. In this embodiment the LMUs are designed to keep each solar panel working at or close to its respective maximum power point substantially independently from each other even through the panels are connected together to form a system.

In addition to the efficiency consideration the LMUs may also be configured to provide various features such as safety panel protection etc. in various implementations. There are two possible types of LMUs that may be adapted for different types of basic connection configurations for solar panels parallel and series. In a combination strings of LMUs connected in serial may be each connected to a string management unit for parallel combinations of strings at a combiner box.

At a given working condition e.g. sunlight exposure temperature etc. the power output level of a solar panel is based on the voltage or current consumed by its load. At the given working condition there is a maximum power point at which the solar panel outputs maximum power W at current Iand voltage V. If the working voltage deviates from V or the current from I the power from the solar panel will be reduced.

In this embodiment the LMUs permit individual solar panels to work at their maximum power points while adjusting LMU outputs for efficient operations in serial or parallel connections. The solar panel works at the maximum power point W I V and the combination of the solar panel and the LMU outputs W I V since the LMU does not itself create power and the power consumed by LMU is negligible .

In the parallel configuration each of the solar panels is connected to an LMU to boost the voltage output V while keeping the solar panel at its maximum power point W I V I V thus reducing I . The solar panels are connected in parallel to a high voltage DC bus via their LMUs and the DC bus can be used to power an inverter which is tied to a power grid to supply the grid.

In the serial configuration each of the solar panels is connected to an LMU to boost the current output lout while keeping the solar panel at its maximum power point W I V I V thus reducing V . The solar panels are connected in series via their LMUs and the string of the solar panels a serial power bus can be used to power an inverter which is tied to a power grid to supply the grid.

a. LMUs for parallel connections are used to boost voltage V V . Each parallel LMU has a step up converter and has a maximum power point tracking circuit. Parallel LMUs are configured to output a substantially fixed voltage allowing only very small variations from the nominal voltage of the high voltage DC bus.

b. LMUs for series connections typically boost current I I . The serial LMUs do not use step up converters or maximum power point tracking circuits. Serial LMUs receive duty cycles from a system management unit e.g. master management unit which coordinates the output of the serial LMUs to improve the performance of the system. The system management unit adjusts the duty cycles of the serial LMUs to adjust the states of their respective solar panels.

In one embodiment a solar panel has a few strings of solar cells e.g. three solar cell strings per module . A local management unit can be applied to a group of cells within a string of an individual solar panel or in some cases to each cell in a solar panel. A group of solar cells that are attached to a local management unit may be connected to each other in series in parallel or in a mesh configuration. A number of local management units connect the groups of the solar cells in a string to provide output for the solar panel. The foregoing is described further in U.S. Pat. No. 7 602 080 filed Oct. 13 2009 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS TO BALANCE SOLAR PANELS IN A MULTI PANEL SYSTEM by Hadar et al. see e.g. FIG. the entire contents of which is incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein. Some embodiments of the disclosure include methods to determine the duty cycles and or phases for local management units connected to a string or mesh of solar modules.

In one embodiment the system management unit controls the operations of the LMUs via a communication connection which may be over the power line through which the solar panels deliver power or over wireless connections or via separate communication lines e.g. as discussed above for . In one embodiment as a safety feature each LMU may have a watchdog circuit which cuts off its output if the heartbeat signal from the system management unit is missing. This allows the solar system to be completely shut down remotely e.g. for fire fighting or cleaning etc. .

In one embodiment the MMU listens for new LMUs that may be attempting to communicate with the MMU for example during set up of a new system or during replacement of an LMU. The MMU may listen on certain predefined channels e.g. selected communication frequencies known to the LMU. After the LMU establishes communication with the MMU the LMU restarts and again establishes communication with the MMU but does so on a different channel different from these predefined channels. A remote server or other computer system may be used to provide configuration profiles to the MMU e.g. over the Internet . This permits a local photovoltaic system to be configured remotely by providing updated profiles to the MMU then restarting one or more LMUs using the new profiles.

In one embodiment a plurality of local management units are configured to under supervision of a master management unit balance currents between the plurality of solar modules in the power bus. In one embodiment the LMUs may be configured to balance voltages and currents between solar modules and between power buses. The LMUs can be implemented serially or in parallel. The foregoing configurations are further described in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2010 0139734 published Jun. 10 2010 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS FOR AN ENHANCED WATCHDOG IN SOLAR MODULE INSTALLATIONS by Hadar et al. the entire contents of which publication is incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

In step the LMU unit wakes up. In step the system checks to determine whether it has a predefined profile list of starting values e.g. the output voltage for the solar panel controlled by the LMU or power level and or initial channel to use for communications . If not No in step the system sets a maximum value e.g. maximum communications power or a default active channel . The maximum value may typically be for the output voltage that particular LMU contributes to its string except in cases where local regulations require that the value be set lower than the maximum.

If the system finds a preset value in a profile Yes in step the system sets the LMU at the preset value s . Once the value is set for LMU operation in either step or step communication is attempted with the MMU on a first active channel. In step the system checks to determine whether communication with the MMU has been established.

If communication is established Yes in step the system communicates with the MMU in step and in step it receives one or more instructions from the MMU. In step the system executes the instruction s it has received. In step the system waits for a period e.g. 1 5 seconds whose value is contained in its profile list and then it repeats the communication loop beginning again at step .

In cases where a communication error occurs in step the system moves to step and commences an error treatment protocol for example as described below or otherwise. Examples of errors may include detection of a non existing command a mismatch in the MMU identification number etc.

If the system finds in step that communication is not established No in step the system attempts to establish communication by setting the channel fto the frequency of initial active channel fand in step scanning f. In step the system checks to see if communication is then established on this new active channel. If it is Yes the system continues to the sequence of steps starting with step as described above. If in step communication is not established No in step the system increments the then active channel fto the next available channel f 1 i.e. channel f .

In step the system checks to see if the next incremental channel exceeds the maximum number of available channels e.g. a predetermined maximum number of channels stored in the LMU start up profile . If the maximum is not exceeded No the system returns to step and continues to scan succeeding active channels until either it establishes communication or it exceeds the maximum number of channels. In the case of exceeding the maximum number of available channels in step Yes the system moves to step and commences an error treatment protocol. An error treatment protocol may include one or more of various approaches. One typical approach would reset the LMU and start again at step . Another approach would shut down the LMU while yet another would loop back to step and try again.

The section below entitled EXEMPLARY PROTOCOL COMMUNICATION INFORMATION shows specific examples of the protocol of communications between an exemplary distributed LMU and an exemplary MMU. This protocol shows how a system can self detect elements available channels etc. thus reducing setup efforts. This is advantageous with the use of wireless communications as channels may be blocked by outside sources of interference e.g. as discussed for above and the system desirably should be able to self reconfigure in such situations.

Core LMU has switches and plus controller . A diode provides a voltage drop in the case of a short of switch to ensure enough voltage to operate controller . Modem and or wireless network interface are coupled to controller to permit communications with the LMUs. In some cases modem connects to the string wiring e.g. to modulate control signals onto the wiring at control frequencies higher than the normal operating frequencies used in power busses and .

In other cases wireless network interface has an antenna to use for communications with the LMUs. The network communications type used may be one of many different types of conventional wireless networks. The use of wireless communication may be advantageous in some cases by reducing the number of hardwire points of failure and thus increasing the simplicity of system setup or the reliability of system operation.

In most cases an LMU does not have both a modem and a wireless network interface . Typically a system contains only one or the other but in some cases these may be for example plug in modules. In other cases both components may be present but only one may be activated. Controller may be configured for operation by additional software code that may include in addition to other previously discussed features for a communication protocol code for implementing a shut off system.

Examples of an LMU are described in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 276 752 filed Sep. 16 2009 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR REMOTE OR LOCAL SHUT OFF OF SOLAR PANEL SYSTEMS by Makhota et al. see e.g. and TGY010 3 and also in U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 277 867 filed Sep. 29 2009 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR REMOTE OR LOCAL SHUT OFF OF SOLAR PANEL SYSTEMS by Makhota et al. see e.g. and TGY010 3 the entire contents of each of the foregoing applications being incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

In a local management unit according to another embodiment is illustrated. Local management unit provides two connectors and for serial connections with other local management units to form a serial power bus e.g. power bus or of . Note that in other embodiments a parallel configuration of LMUs may be used.

A controller controls the states of switches Q and Q . When the controller turns on switch the panel voltage and the capacitor C are connected in parallel to the connectors and . The output voltage between the connectors and is substantially the same as the output panel voltage. During the period the switch is turned off open the controller turns on closes the switch Q to provide a path around the diode D to improve efficiency.

When the switch is turned off open the panel voltage charges the capacitor C such that when the switch is turned on both the solar panel and the capacitor provides currents going through the connectors and allowing a current larger than the current of the solar panel to flow in the string e.g. the serial power bus or of . When the switch is turned off open the diode D also provides a path between the connectors and to sustain the current in the string even if the switch is off for some reason. In one embodiment the controller is connected not shown to the panel voltage to obtain the power for controlling the switches Q and Q .

In one embodiment the controller is further connected not shown to at least one of the connectors and to transmit and or receive information from the string. In one embodiment the controller includes sensors not shown to measure operating parameters of the solar panel such as panel voltage panel current temperature light intensity etc.

Additional information regarding local management units and the operation thereof that may be used in some embodiments of the present disclosure is described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 602 080 filed Oct. 13 2009 entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS TO BALANCE SOLAR PANELS IN A MULTI PANEL SYSTEM by Hadar et al. the entire contents of which is incorporated by reference as if fully set forth herein.

CPU is connected to bus to which bus is also connected memory non volatile memory display I O unit and network interface card NIC . I O unit may typically be connected to keyboard pointing device hard disk and real time clock . NIC connects to network which may be the Internet or a local network which local network may or may not have connections to the Internet. Also shown as part of system is power supply unit connected in this example to AC supply . Not shown are batteries that may be present in some embodiments and many other hardware devices and modifications thereof that are well known for use in such computer systems but are not directly applicable to the specific novel functions of the system and method disclosed herein. Although illustrates various components of a computer system it is not intended to represent any particular architecture or manner of interconnecting the components. Other systems that have fewer or more components may also be used.

In other embodiments typical I O devices may include mice modems network interfaces printers scanners video cameras and other devices which are well known in the art. The bus may include one or more buses connected to one another through various bridges controllers and or adapters. In one embodiment the I O unit includes a USB Universal Serial Bus adapter for controlling USB peripherals and or an IEEE 1394 bus adapter for controlling IEEE 1394 peripherals.

In other embodiments memory may include ROM Read Only Memory and volatile RAM Random Access Memory . Non volatile memory may include for example a hard drive flash memory etc. Volatile RAM is typically implemented as dynamic RAM DRAM which requires power continually in order to refresh or maintain the data in the memory. Non volatile memory is typically a magnetic hard drive a magnetic optical drive or an optical drive e.g. a DVD RAM or other type of memory system which maintains data even after power is removed from the system. The non volatile memory may also be a random access memory.

The non volatile memory can be a local device coupled directly to the rest of the components in the data processing system. A non volatile memory that is remote from the system such as a network storage device coupled to the data processing system through a network interface such as a modem or Ethernet interface can also be used.

In some embodiments one or more servers of the system can be replaced with the service of a peer to peer network of a plurality of data processing systems or a network of distributed computing systems. The peer to peer network or a distributed computing system can be collectively viewed as a server data processing system.

Embodiments of the disclosure can be implemented via the processor s and or the memory . For example the functionalities described can be partially implemented via hardware logic in the processor s and partially using the instructions stored in the memory and or . Some embodiments are implemented using the processor s without additional instructions stored in memory. Some embodiments are implemented using the instructions stored in the memory for execution by one or more general purpose microprocessor s . Thus the disclosure is not limited to a specific configuration of hardware and or software.

As mentioned previously above examples of additional communications protocol embodiments are described further in the section below entitled EXEMPLARY PROTOCOL COMMUNICATION INFORMATION . Specific examples of communication packet data structures and communication commands that may be used in specific implementations of the various embodiments described above are included in this section.

In one embodiment communications are attempted using this exemplary communication protocol from a first local management on a first active channel with the MMU. Next it is determined if communication with the MMU has been established. In response to a determination that the communication on the first active channel has not been established communication is attempted on a second active channel with the MMU the second active channel having a frequency different from the first active channel. Then it is determined if communication with the master management unit on the second active channel has been established. If so then the LMU continues with a configuration or start up process.

In one embodiment the method further comprises after the communication on the second active channel has been established receiving a first communication from the master management unit. In one embodiment the first communication comprises an instruction e.g. a command and the method further comprises executing the instruction on the first local management unit. In one embodiment the plurality of local management units are connected in series. In another embodiment the plurality of local management units are connected in parallel.

In one embodiment the communication on the first active channel is at a predetermined frequency used by the master management unit for establishing communication with new local management units being added to the system. In one embodiment the method further comprises after communication with the master management unit has been established restarting the first local management unit and subsequently communicating with the master management unit at a frequency other than the predetermined frequency.

In one embodiment the method further comprises communicating from the first local management unit to the master management unit an identification code e.g. Unit ID associated with the first local management unit and receiving a profile from the master management unit the profile corresponding to the identification code. In one embodiment the method further comprises in response to receiving the identification code retrieving via the master management unit the profile from a database that includes a plurality of different profiles suitable for configuration of local management units.

In one embodiment the first local management unit comprises an antenna and the attempting to communicate on the first active channel comprises sending a wireless signal via the antenna. In one embodiment the method further comprises after the communication on the second active channel has been established determining that an error has occurred in communication with the master management unit and in response to the error initiating an error treatment protocol for the first local management unit.

In one embodiment the method further comprises in response to a determination that the communication on the second active channel has not been established attempting to communicate on a third active channel with the master management unit the third active channel having a frequency different from the first and second active channels determining if communication with the master management unit on the third active channel has been established in response to a determination that the communication on the third active channel has not been established determining whether a predetermined number of available channels for communication with the master management unit has been exceeded and in response to a determination that the predetermined number has been exceeded initiating an error treatment protocol for the first local management unit.

In one embodiment the method further comprises prior to the attempting to communicate on the first active channel waking up the first local management unit after the waking up determining whether the first local management unit is storing a configuration profile in response to a determination that the first local management unit is not storing the configuration profile communicating to the master management unit a first identification code associated with the first local management unit receiving a first profile from the master management unit the first profile corresponding to the first identification code and the first profile including a time period and configuring the first local management unit using the first profile.

In one embodiment the method further comprises after the communication on the second active channel has been established receiving a first instruction from the master management unit executing the first instruction on the first local management unit after the executing the first instruction waiting for the time period after the waiting communicating with the master management unit to receive a second instruction and executing the second instruction on the first local management unit.

In one embodiment the method further comprises establishing communication with the master management unit from a second local management unit of the plurality of local management units and communicating to the master management unit a second identification code associated with the second local management unit receiving a second profile from the master management unit the second profile corresponding to the second identification code and configuring the second local management unit using the second profile.

In one embodiment a local management unit comprises memory storing software instructions and a controller coupled to the memory. The controller is configured via the software instructions to execute a method comprising controlling under supervision by a master management unit a first solar module of a plurality of solar modules the master management unit coupled to supervise a plurality of local management units wherein the plurality of local management units are coupled by a power bus and each one of the plurality of local management units controls a respective one of the plurality of solar modules attempting to communicate on a first active channel with the master management unit determining if communication with the master management unit on the first active channel has been established in response to a determination that the communication on the first active channel has not been established attempting to communicate on a second active channel with the master management unit the second active channel having a frequency different from the first active channel and determining if communication with the master management unit on the second active channel has been established.

In one embodiment the system further comprises a modem or wireless network interface to attempt to communicate with the master management unit on the first active channel. In one embodiment the plurality of local management units are configured to under supervision of the master management unit balance currents between the plurality of solar modules in the power bus.

In one embodiment a non transitory computer readable storage medium tangibly stores computer readable instructions. The instructions cause a computer or data processing system to perform a method comprising attempting to communicate from a first local management unit of a plurality of local management units on a first active channel with a master management unit each of the plurality of local management units coupled to control a respective solar module of a plurality of solar modules determining if communication with the master management unit on the first active channel has been established in response to a determination that the communication on the first active channel has not been established attempting to communicate on a second active channel with the master management unit the second active channel having a frequency different from the first active channel and determining if communication with the master management unit on the second active channel has been established.

In one embodiment method further comprises communicating from the first local management unit to the master management unit an identification code associated with the first local management unit and receiving a profile from the master management unit the profile corresponding to the identification code.

In this description various functions and operations may be described as being performed by or caused by software code to simplify description. However those skilled in the art will recognize what is meant by such expressions is that the functions result from execution of the code by a processor such as a microprocessor. Alternatively or in combination the functions and operations can be implemented using special purpose circuitry with or without software instructions such as using an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC or a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA . Embodiments can be implemented using hardwired circuitry without software instructions or in combination with software instructions. Thus the techniques are limited neither to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software nor to any particular source for the instructions executed by the data processing system.

While some embodiments can be implemented in fully functioning computers and computer systems various embodiments are capable of being distributed as a computing product in a variety of forms and are capable of being applied regardless of the particular type of machine or computer readable media used to actually effect the distribution.

At least some aspects disclosed can be embodied at least in part in software. That is the techniques may be carried out in a computer system or other data processing system in response to its processor such as a microprocessor executing sequences of instructions contained in a memory such as ROM volatile RAM non volatile memory cache or a remote storage device.

Routines executed to implement the embodiments may be implemented as part of an operating system middleware service delivery platform SDK Software Development Kit component web services or other specific application component program object module or sequence of instructions referred to as computer programs. Invocation interfaces to these routines can be exposed to a software development community as an API Application Programming Interface . The computer programs typically comprise one or more instructions set at various times in various memory and storage devices in a computer and that when read and executed by one or more processors in a computer cause the computer to perform operations necessary to execute elements involving the various aspects.

A machine readable medium can be used to store software and data which when executed by a data processing system causes the system to perform various methods. The executable software and data may be stored in various places including for example ROM volatile RAM non volatile memory and or cache. Portions of this software and or data may be stored in any one of these storage devices. Further the data and instructions can be obtained from centralized servers or peer to peer networks. Different portions of the data and instructions can be obtained from different centralized servers and or peer to peer networks at different times and in different communication sessions or in a same communication session. The data and instructions can be obtained in entirety prior to the execution of the applications. Alternatively portions of the data and instructions can be obtained dynamically just in time when needed for execution. Thus it is not required that the data and instructions be on a machine readable medium in entirety at a particular instance of time.

Examples of computer readable media include but are not limited to recordable and non recordable type media such as volatile and non volatile memory devices read only memory ROM random access memory RAM flash memory devices floppy and other removable disks magnetic disk storage media optical storage media e.g. Compact Disk Read Only Memory CD ROMS Digital Versatile Disks DVDs etc. among others.

In general a machine readable medium includes any mechanism that provides e.g. stores information in a form accessible by a machine e.g. a computer network device personal digital assistant manufacturing tool any device with a set of one or more processors etc. .

In various embodiments hardwired circuitry may be used in combination with software instructions to implement the techniques. Thus the techniques are neither limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and software nor to any particular source for the instructions executed by the data processing system.

Although some of the drawings illustrate a number of operations in a particular order operations which are not order dependent may be reordered and other operations may be combined or broken out. While some reordering or other groupings are specifically mentioned others will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art and so do not present an exhaustive list of alternatives. Moreover it should be recognized that the stages could be implemented in hardware firmware software or any combination thereof.

Current parameters are formatted to a structure and written to Flash. A limited number of writes are allowed before the memory is filled up. Do NOT write to Flash unless the actions in NECESSARY

In the foregoing specification the disclosure has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments thereof. It will be evident that various modifications may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope as set forth in the following claims. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative sense rather than a restrictive sense.

