---

title: Computer-based system to optimize medical treatment based on consumer choice and comparative effectiveness of treatment data
abstract: A process, machine, manufacture, or composition of matter, and improvements, illustratively as method of using a machine, the method including: storing data of a population in memory; computing, by a computer accessing the data stored in the memory, a probability of at least one future medical treatment needed by at least one individual having data in the data of a population; ascribing, by the computer applying the computed probabilities, each said individual with one of a plurality of risk stratifications for each said future medical treatment; and producing, by the computer communicating to an output device, output including at least one said ascribed individual in association with the one of the risk stratifications. The method can also include forming, by the computer accessing the data stored in the memory, an association of travel by an individual and a health consequence as a result of the travel by the individual; and generating, at the output device, output including the association. The method can also include determining, by the computer accessing the memory, whether at least one alternative treatment for the future medical treatment may be appropriate for the individual; and producing, at the output device, output tailored responsive to the determination of whether said alternative treatment may be appropriate for the individual.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08321372&OS=08321372&RS=08321372
owner: Bridgehealth Medical, Inc.
number: 08321372
owner_city: Greenwood Village
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100419
---
The present patent application claims benefit from and incorporates by reference for all purposes as if fully set forth herein from Ser. Nos. 61 170 421 filed Apr. 17 2009 61 171 544 filed Apr. 22 2009 61 173 319 filed Apr. 28 2009 and 61 299 615 filed Jan. 29 2010.

Process machine manufacture or composition of matter and improvements thereof related to electrical and computer technology.

As used herein the term computer generally refers to hardware or hardware in combination with one or more program s such as can be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof. Computer aspects can be implemented on general purpose computers or specialized devices and can operate electrically optically or in any other fashion. A computer as used herein can be viewed as at least one computer having all functionality or as multiple computers with functionality separated to collectively cooperate to bring about the functionality. Logic flow can represent signal processing such as digital data processing communication or as evident from the context hereinafter. Logic flow or logic means can be implemented in discrete circuits programmed computer or the equivalent. Computer readable media as used herein can comprise at least one of a tape a written document including a mark sense card or an XML document a RAM a ROM a disk a flash drive an ASIC and a PROM. Data entry as used herein can comprise at least one of i manual entry by at least one of one or more keyboards one or more mice one or more pens one or more tablets one or more scanners one or more voices one or more movements or contractions of a body part one or more body generated magnetic or electrical signals or one or more other manual data entry devices or ii electronic entry through one or more physical or wired attachments to computer readable media or one or more wireless connections to computer readable media and in each such cases either directly to the entry device or media or indirectly through a LAN or WAN e.g. the Internet .

Embodiments of herein may be implemented in hardware or software or a combination of both. Embodiments may be implemented as one or more computer programs executing on programmable systems comprising at least one processor a data storage system including volatile and non volatile memory and or storage elements at least one input device and at least one output device. Program code may be applied to input data to perform the functions described herein and generate output information. The output information may be applied to one or more output devices in known fashion. A processing system embodying the playback device components can include any system that has a processor such as for example a digital signal processor DSP a microcontroller an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or a microprocessor.

The programs may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language to communicate with a processing system. The programs may also be implemented in assembly or machine language if desired. In fact the embodiments are not limited in scope to any particular programming language. In any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language.

The program s may be stored on a storage media or device e.g. hard disk drive floppy disk drive read only memory ROM CD ROM device flash memory device digital versatile disk DVD or other storage device readable by a general or special purpose programmable processing system for configuring and operating the processing system when the storage media or device is read by the processing system to perform the procedures described herein. Embodiments may also be considered to be implemented as a machine readable storage medium configured for use with a processing system where the storage medium so configured causes the processing system to operate in a specific and predefined manner to perform the functions described herein.

Some embodiments can be configured along the lines of or part thereof. Illustratively then there can be a processing computer system which can depending on the configuration preferred for a particular application include a digital computer e.g. an IBM Hewlett Packard or other personal computer with one or more processors e.g. an Intel series processor or the like random access memory not separately shown one or more input devices e.g. keyboard mouse modem etc. disk storage e.g. hard drive disk drive CD DVD flash drive etc. and one or more output devices e.g. a Hewlett Packard printer a Dell monitor a modem router etc. . There can be an operating system or other program such as Microsoft XP Professional and its applications such as EXCEL ACCESS and WORD to run on the computer system a word processing system such as Microsoft Word to process transaction data and or some hard coded systems to perform the technical processes herein and produce the output data according thereto. So for example the input device such as a keyboard can receive the input data either manually or in another manner e.g. electronically via an input device such as a router which can also be an output device. Output device can be used for outputting the processed information.

The processing computer may also be connected to other peripherals e.g. one or more remote computers a computer network a web server or a web page . In addition to the direct input and output devices described above the processing computer may utilize these peripherals to both receive the data it needs and output the results it computes. Some of these peripherals such as remote computers web pages web servers and telephonic instant text video and multimedia services may also be the source of manual input from one or more individuals.

The processing computer can be implemented to handle certain data types such as DATA ABOUT COMPARATIVE TREATMENT EFFECTIVENESS . The processing computer can acquire the data of COMPARATIVE EFFECTIVENESS OF TREATMENT from various sources such as governmental data bases private research data bases academic studies and its own internal data base.

DATA ABOUT DISTRIBUTION is another data type that can be received by the processing computer . The processing computer can acquire the data of DISTRIBUTION DATA FOR DISEASES IN A POPULATION from various sources such as governmental data bases private research data bases academic studies and its own internal data base.

DATA OF A POPULATION is another data type that can be received by the processing computer . The processing computer can acquire the data of PERSONAL DATA directly from individuals via a web page a web server a remote computer via Fax via mail or via a telephonic instant text video and multimedia services. The processing computer can acquire the data of PAYER DATA from private insurance company or governmental sources. The processing computer can acquire the data of COMPARATIVE TREATMENT EFFICACY DATA from COMPARATIVE EFFECTIVENESS OF TREATMENT .

The processing computer having received the necessary inputs computes from the inputs a PROBABILITY OF FUTURE MEDICAL TREATMENT NEEDED BY INDIVIDUAL . The processing computer computes these probabilities FOR A DISEASE FOR AN AILMENT and FOR A DISABILITY . The processing computer can produce TAILORED TREATMENT INFORMATION corresponding to these probabilities including but not limited to 

The processing computer can compute these probabilities for Individual 1 and for other individuals including Individual N. The processing computer computes the PROBABILITY OF FUTURE MEDICAL TREATMENT NEEDED BY INDIVIDUAL N . The processing computer computes these probabilities FOR A DISEASE FOR AN AILMENT and FOR A DISABILITY . The processing computer produces TAILORED TREATMENT INFORMATION corresponding to these probabilities including but not limited to 

The TAILORED TREATMENT INFORMATION is outputted to the appropriate individuals using one of the output devices described above e.g. using a MULTIMEDIA or by using AUDIO VIDEO ANIMATION format.

After receipt of the tailored information as described above an individual can indicate a treatment path e.g. selected as his or her choice of treatment using one of the input devices described above. This indication e.g. TREATMENT SELECTION allows the processing computer to compute TREATMENT SPECIFIC PROVIDER INFORMATION including but not limited to 

The TREATMENT SPECIFIC PROVIDER INFORMATION is outputted to the appropriate individuals using one of the output devices described above e.g. using a MULTIMEDIA VIDEO AUDIO OR ANIMATION format.

After receipt of the provider specific information as described above the individual indicates e.g. by a selection a provider as his or her choice of receiving treatment from using one of the input devices described above. Upon receipt of this selection PROVIDER SELECTION the processing computer computes SCHEDULED APPOINTMENT TRAVEL INFORMATION LOGISTICAL INFORMATION . These can be outputted to the appropriate individuals using one of the output devices described above e.g. using a MULTIMEDIA VIDEO AUDIO OR ANIMATION format.

Further either by using the previously computed travel and logistical information as above or by receiving input from the individual regarding his or her alternate travel choice whereby the processing computer computes a new set of logistical information if appropriate the processing computer creates an ASSOCIATION OF HEALTH CONSEQUENCES WITH TRAVEL using the ASSOCIATION FORMING CRITERIA including but not limited to 

The HEALTH CONSEQUENCES ASSOCIATED WITH EACH ASSOCIATION FORMING CRITERIA information 2000 can be outputted to the appropriate individuals using one of the output devices described above e.g. using a MULTIMEDIA VIDEO AUDIO OR ANIMATION format.

After receipt of the HEALTH CONSEQUENCES information as described above the user can indicate e.g. by a selection his or her choice of travel using one of the input devices described above. This selection TRAVEL SELECTION allows the processing computer to process so as to produce as output the final travel selection using one of the output devices described above e.g. using a MULTIMEDIA VIDEO AUDIO OR ANIMATION format. The processing computer prepares appropriate TRAVEL OUTPROCESSING documents and services including but not limited to 

The processing computer invokes an INITIATE TRACKING TO BE PERIODICALLY UPDATED OF TRAVELLING INDIVIDUAL S STATUS process by which it receives periodic status updates regarding the travelling individual s current status via one or more of the input devices described above.

Before the individual is admitted to the provider s facility for treatment a COLLECTION OF PREADMISSION DATA can made from the individual about the condition of his or her current health conditions which may be necessary to compute COMPARATIVE EFFECTIVENESS OF TREATMENT .

Following COMPLETION OF TREATMENT and e.g. before the individual is discharged from the provider s facility after treatment a COLLECTION OF DISCHARGE DATA is also made from the individual about the condition of his or her current health conditions which may be necessary to compute COMPARATIVE EFFECTIVENESS OF TREATMENT .

After RETURN HOME AFTER TREATMENT status is detected indicating that the individual has successfully returned home the Processing Computer can initiate a COMPLETE ALL NECESSARY FOLLOW UP MEDICAL CARE IF ANY process.

The COMPLETE ALL NECESSARY FOLLOW UP MEDICAL CARE IF ANY process ensures by examining periodic status updates received from one or more input devices as described above that the individual completes all necessary follow up cares as may or may not be necessary for him or her given his or her current health condition.

Following completion of medical follow up care the COLLECTION OF PERIODIC DATA process can be initiated whereby data is periodically collected from the individual about the condition of his or her current health conditions which may be necessary to compute COMPARATIVE EFFECTIVENESS OF TREATMENT .

After each collection of periodic health status data a COMPUTATION OF COMPARATIVE EFFECTIVENESS OF TREATMENT RECEIVED can be conducted. This can result in the triggering of an UPDATING OF COMPARATIVE EFFECTIVENESS OF TREATMENT process whereby the PROCESSING COMPUTER S MEMORY is updated.

Turn now to for further embodiments and articulations of the foregoing. With respect to a population of employees of an employer for example members of a health insurance plan and or other such payers of healthcare costs such as the US Government consider that a statistically determinable number of members of such populations will generally require or best have surgical treatments or other major medical interventions for a variety of ailments often as treatments of last resort consider however that for some of those ailments disability and disease conditions referenced herein as preference sensitive conditions and for some of these individuals treatment alternatives to surgeries or other major medical interventions including more limited scope invasive procedures in some cases are also available which will yield acceptable and satisfactory outcomes especially if such alternative treatments including more limited scope invasive procedures where appropriate are administered early enough in the disease or disability phases of the afflicted members. Also consider that based on Comparative Effectiveness of Treatment data it is further possible to identify these alternative treatments including more limited scope invasive procedures where appropriate to be ranked for best efficacies. Recognize therefore that in order for these alternative treatments including more limited scope invasive procedures where appropriate to have the best chance for success in avoiding surgery or other major medical interventions it may be best in some applications to first identify potential members then intervene and administer such treatments at the right phases of the members disease or disability progressions. Interventions that are initiated too early may statistically yield too many false alarms or interventions and interventions that are administered too late and or when the diseases or disabilities have progressed too far will not help avoid the need for ultimate surgical or other major medical interventions treatments. Consider .

An embodiment herein can facilitate the appropriate administration of such alternative treatments including more limited scope invasive procedures where appropriate e.g. by identifying which specific ailments disability and disease conditions are preference sensitive establishing a set of early indicators of surgery or other major medical interventions which indicators may be of clinical behavioral or any other data type s by which to reasonably identify those members of the population who are suffering from preference sensitive conditions and who have thus become likely candidates to require or best have surgery or other major medical interventions in the future unless appropriate interventions can be administered before surgery or other major medical interventions becomes unavoidable by using the early indicators of surgery or other major medical interventions to analyze claims or other comparable data sets such as psychographics data including but not limited to the levels of education occupation learning styles languages spoken ethnicity religion etc. to identify target populations of such members for direct intervention and by identifying the appropriate phases in the members disease or disability progressions when to administer the alternative treatments for best effectiveness and by intervening at the appropriate time.

In an embodiment herein there can be an evaluation by the computer using one or more pre programmed models of available information about the health status and claims history of the payers members regarding any initial health conditions and or diagnoses which have been determined with some statistical probability to lead to surgeries or other major medical interventions medical condition and or severity of the ailment co morbidity other clinical information demographic information statistical information and or other relevant information as well as any combination of these kinds of information against a knowledge base containing information about the appropriateness and comparative efficacies of various available treatments including more limited scope invasive procedures their possible complications and or outcomes statistics or other information about the expected prognosis for improving the medical conditions by using the potential alternative treatments including more limited scope invasive procedures and the correct phases of the progression of the diseases disabilities and or ailments when to apply these alternative treatments including more limited scope invasive procedures where appropriate for best effectiveness.

In another embodiment using the early indicators for surgery or other major medical interventions as described herein there can be a computer identification made of those members of the population who are likely candidates for surgery or other major medical interventions but whose conditions are also preference sensitive and surgery or other major medical interventions may be avoided by appropriately administering alternative treatments including more limited scope invasive procedures where appropriate further once identified such members can then be monitored by the computer for the progression of their diseases disabilities or ailments.

In another embodiment once a member suffering from a preference sensitive condition is identified and monitored by the computer enters a phase in the progression of his or her disease disability and or ailment where non surgical or inexpensive treatment alternatives including more limited scope invasive procedures if appropriate can be administered to have the best chance of ultimately avoiding surgery or other major medical interventions an intervention can be automatically triggered.

In a further embodiment there can be computer managed matching instructions about meeting an alternative treatment physician or another health practitioner regarding the alternative treatment path selection including more limited scope invasive procedures if appropriate.

In another embodiment to maximize the medical benefits at an optimum cost to the individual there can be computer managed counseling regarding the individual s alternative treatment options including more limited scope invasive procedures where appropriate as well as lower cost surgical or other alternatives from competing members of the same or from another provider network where available.

In yet another embodiment there can be computer assisted arrangements to help the individual with logistics medical appointments and or other arrangements of traveling to the destination of his or her choice for the selected alternative treatment including more limited scope invasive procedures where appropriate available and selected by a healthcare provider or healthcare providers at a facility not located in the individual s home area.

Though the embodiments herein pertain to process machine manufacture or composition of matter and improvements to be succinct consider representatively a process of identifying by establishing and then utilizing a set of early indicators of possible future surgeries or other major medical interventions those individuals of a population who are suffering from preference sensitive conditions and whose diseases disabilities and or ailments have progressed enough to receive alternative treatments including more limited scope invasive procedures where appropriate for best effectiveness and who are consequently going to make informed decisions about or agree to such treatments. More specifically consider computer related and implemented systems relating to the capability of automatically analyzing the claims data and or other similar clinical information of a member population to identify and monitor those who exhibit certain medical conditions disability or ailments or those individuals who have been specifically diagnosed with preference sensitive conditions or ailments which conditions and or ailments generally lead to surgeries or other major medical interventions in the future if not treated appropriately and at the correct phases of progression and consider in some embodiments a capability to identify the correct phase when to administer the appropriate alternative treatments including more limited scope invasive procedures where appropriate and in some other embodiments a capability of automatically guiding the individual through the necessary education information and a guidance process so he or she can make an informed decision about receiving the treatment in consultation with his physician and or other health practitioner while in other embodiments assisting the individual in making a final cost benefit analysis choosing the location and or physician or other health practitioner to receive treatments from as well as arranging for his or her travel logistics and medical appointments especially when the treatment facility is located outside the individual s home area.

Now consider as illustrative a discussion in view of etc. Embodiments can implement a capability by first establishing and then utilizing a set of early indicators of surgery or other major medical interventions of identifying monitoring and assisting individuals choose a final course of his treatment and travel to any location to receive the treatment as exemplified above. Embodiments may be distinct or in combination with clinical screening or matching systems such as suitability of non surgical treatments including more limited scope invasive procedures where appropriate in view of the individual s demographic and or medical conditions including severity of ailment co morbidity and other factors. Embodiments can provide early identification and monitoring of a target population guidance scheduling education information and counseling about available alternate treatments if any including outcomes statistics Comparative Effectiveness of Treatment data or other information about the expected prognosis for improving the medical condition and probability of complications of each treatment. There shall also be a capability of performing appropriate cost benefit analysis given the limits and any incentives of the insurance policy of the individual. In some embodiments there shall also be a capability of physician or other health practitioner appointment treatment scheduling ticketing and other logistics of traveling if the final treatment is to be received from a location away from the individual s home area.

As illustrated in some embodiments can be represented by a flow in which an individual is first identified as a candidate for early intervention the progression of his disease condition and or ailment is then monitored to determine when best to intervene with the appropriate alternative treatment including more limited scope invasive procedures where appropriate or when best to offer surgery or other major medical interventions then he receives guidance education counseling cost benefit analysis treatment physician and or other health practitioner selection scheduling and travel services.

As should also be noted with respect to an embodiment can have a capability of resulting in an effective management of the process of identification monitoring providing guidance education counseling cost benefit analysis treatment physician or other health practitioner selection scheduling and travel services .

Consider too that for an embodiment to properly manage the process as exemplified above the system should receive the appropriate amounts and types of data. While the types and amounts of data will reflect to a degree the particular embodiment or implementation as may be preferred and can vary from time to time based on the contemporary state of understanding of the relative efficacy of the various types of early indicators of surgery effective non surgical alternative treatments including more limited scope invasive procedures where appropriate when to administer such treatments for best effects of improved understanding of human physiology and development of newer treatments in one embodiment there can be a capability of processing and or transforming data corresponding to the individual s severity of the medical condition disease disability or ailment and other clinical information demographic information statistical information comparative treatment efficacy information other relevant information as well as any combination of these kinds of information.

Embodiments herein can be implemented via a web site linking the computer system with another computer system corresponding to the individual. A further embodiment can implement one of the embodiments herein as a prerequisite to honoring an insurance claim or pre authorizing insurance coverage and receiving claims data related to the treatment procedure and claims history and there can be computer to computer communication with an insurance computer system to carry out this function.

Note too that the embodiments are not limited so as to be devoid of human steps and in some cases as may be desired some implementations may be carried out by a human emulating a computer operation.

Consider then representatively that there can be one or more embodiments including a computer system comprising a digital computer operably associated with an input device a memory and an output device the computer programmed to carry out operations including 

loading the memory with information about which diseases ailments and medical conditions are preference sensitive receiving at the computer via the said input device data corresponding to preference sensitive conditions and their associated co morbidity severity and or other clinical conditions demographics information statistical information comparative treatment efficacy information or any combination of thereof processing the data with the computer so as to produce detailed maps of the progression of preference sensitive conditions as a function of co morbidity severity and or other clinical conditions demographics information statistical information or any combination of thereof from initial diagnoses and or initial display of disease symptoms up to the point where alternative non surgical treatments including more limited scope invasive procedures where appropriate remain viable treatments to ultimately avoid surgeries or other major medical interventions processing the data with the computer so as to produce detailed maps of the progression of preference sensitive conditions as a function of co morbidity severity and or other clinical conditions demographics information statistical information comparative treatment efficacy information or any combination of thereof from initial diagnoses and or initial display of disease symptoms to the point where surgical or other major medical interventions become unavoidable processing the matching sets of maps thus produced for each preference sensitive condition as a function of co morbidity severity and or other clinical conditions demographics information statistical information comparative treatment efficacy information or any combination of thereof to establish a zone of progression of the disease and or ailment that may be deemed too early or pre mature for treatment interventions to be cost effective processing the matching sets of maps produced above for each preference sensitive condition as a function of co morbidity severity and or other clinical conditions demographics information statistical information comparative treatment efficacy information or any combination of thereof to establish an optimum zone of progression of the disease disability and or ailment that may be deemed most cost effective in avoiding surgical or other major medical interventions in the future by initiating alternative non surgical treatments including more limited scope invasive procedures where appropriate processing the matching sets of maps produced above for each preference sensitive condition as a function of co morbidity severity and or other clinical conditions demographics information statistical information comparative treatment efficacy or any combination of thereof to establish a zone of progression of the disease disability and or ailment that may be deemed too late and ineffective in avoiding surgical treatments in the future by initiating any type of alternative non surgical treatment interventions or more limited scope invasive procedures producing at said output device for each preference sensitive condition output identifying the three disease intervention zones as follows 1 a zone of premature intervention 2 a zone of optimum intervention and 3 a zone of ineffective intervention where interventions are deemed to be too late to prevent surgery or other major medical interventions in the future and analyzing by the computer the characteristics of the three disease intervention zones identified above to establish early indicators of surgery or other major medical interventions a set of quantitative descriptive or other measures or any combination of these measures by which to uniquely effectively and or fully identify each disease zone producing at said output device for each preference sensitive condition output identifying the early indicators of surgery or other major medical interventions.

Viewed differently there can be an apparatus including a first computer system comprising a digital computer operably associated with an input device a memory and an output device the computer programmed to carry out operations including receiving at the computer from information input at said input device data about early indicators of surgery or other major medical interventions receiving at the computer from information input at said input device comparative treatment effectiveness insurance claims or other similar data corresponding to an insurance company s historical claims payment or other similar data corresponding to other sources of historical medical data and or treatment related information appropriate health records and or a combination thereof about members or other individuals 

processing the input data with the computer so as to produce a determination of how many and which individual members are specifically in each of the three zones of preference sensitive disease progression thereby determining a target list of individual members for the most cost effective treatment initiations and producing at said output device output disclosing the determination.

Such embodiments can further include a second computer system comprising a second digital computer operably associated with a second input device a second memory and a second output device the second computer programmed to carry out operations including receiving at least some of the output disclosing the determination.

And in such embodiments the first computer can generate further output referring an individual to an appropriate medical counselor or consultant associated with an alternative non surgical treatment including more limited scope invasive procedures where appropriate corresponding to the determination.

Notably in such embodiments the computer can generate other output so as to facilitate the individual choosing a most cost effective facility and physician for a treatment corresponding to the determination said other output reflecting at least one of a measure of quality of a physician and or facility a success rate of the physician and or facility an outcome statistic for alternative treatment including more limited scope invasive procedures where appropriate a prognosis for improving the medical condition from the specific treatment comparative treatment efficacy or any combination thereof and any benefit and or any incentive available from an insurance company an employer or any other source for payment for the treatment.

Also in such embodiments the computer can generate additional output so as to facilitate logistics and arrangements for traveling to the location chosen by the individual for a treatment corresponding to the determination.

And in such embodiments the computer can generate yet further output including a counseling and education session for each of the treatments.

Note further that in such embodiments the session can comprise providing information regarding the terms of insurance coverage risk of complication prognosis or combination thereof for improving the medical condition from each of the alternatives.

Also in such embodiments the session can include a selection of a final treatment corresponding to the determination including facilitating a choice of a most cost effective facility and or physician for the treatment.

And note that in such embodiments the selection can be formulated as based upon at least one of quality and success rate of a physician and or facility benefits and any incentives available from an insurance policy or any other source.

In such embodiments the selection can be for a non surgical treatment or more limited scope invasive procedures where appropriate generating output helping the individual choose the most cost effective facility and or health practitioner for the selected treatment.

In embodiments there can be receiving data corresponding to an individual s disease and or ailment any diagnosis severity and co morbidity information demographics information statistical information or any combination thereof data corresponding to availability of alternate treatments comparative treatment efficacy possibility of complication if any at least one prognosis for improving the medical condition from each said treatment at least one treatment option price quality and outcome information corresponding to at least one treatment facility and at least one associated health practitioner and coverage limit and any incentive offered by the individual s insurance company employer or by any other source.

Another illustrative way of embodiment viewing is as a process of using an apparatus the process comprising providing first computer system comprising a digital computer operably associated with an input device a memory and an output device loading the memory with information about surgical and alternative treatments available for human ailments including corresponding possibilities of complications and prognosis for improving the medical condition from each treatment for the ailment as a function of co morbidity and severity comparative treatment efficacy loading the memory with educational and informational modules about alternate treatment choices for each of the ailments and corresponding possibility of complications if any and a prognosis for improving the medical condition loading the memory with price quality and outcome information about treatment facilities and at least one associated health practitioner where each of the treatment choices is available receiving at the computer from information input at said input device data corresponding to an individual s ailment any initial diagnosis medical condition including co morbidity and severity information demographics information statistical information or any combination of the information plus information about any insurance or other benefit coverage limits and incentives relating to the individual and producing at said output device output disclosing the determination.

Any embodiment herein can also be viewed from the perspective of an article comprising a computer readable media tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by a computer to perform the operations corresponding to the embodiment at issue.

Turn now to for another perspective. With respect to an individual suffering from a serious ailment who has received an initial diagnosis of needing surgical or other major medical interventions and who is consequently going to make an informed decision about or agree to the remaining course of his or her treatment s consider embodiments applicable to the process of his or her understanding and decision making. In one example consider such decision making as having considered guidance counseling education information and other assistances e.g. at layman levels so his or her choices can be optimized based upon available treatment options risks of complications and or prognosis for recovery from each possible treatment. Consider also that he or she needs or wishes to properly understand the limit of his or her insurance coverage and any incentives therein including available choice of physicians and alternate locations to receive treatments an appropriate cost benefits analysis or other such information. An embodiment herein can facilitate an individual s understanding and decision making applicable to such a situation e.g. by first using the initial diagnosis disease condition and severity co morbidity other clinical information demographic information statistical information comparative treatment effectiveness information and or other relevant information as well as any combination of these kinds of information and then judging if the individual s condition is a preference sensitive one i.e. if he or she suffers from a condition for which appropriate alternate treatment s to surgery or other major medical interventions are available with comparable recovery prognosis and how much he is covered for each alternate treatment under the terms of his or her insurance policy and then if his condition is judged not to be preference sensitive referring him or her to an appropriate surgical or other major medical intervention consultant. Embodiments can follow this with appropriate counseling about the specific surgery or other major medical interventions recommended by the surgical or other major medical intervention consultant so the individual can choose the most cost effective location and or surgeon for the surgery or other major medical intervention e.g. based upon the quality and success rate of the surgeon or other major medical intervention provider the benefits and any incentives available from his or her insurance policy. Embodiments can also facilitate the individual s preparing for the surgery or other major medical interventions itself maximizing the benefits of the surgery or other major medical interventions by properly complying with pre and post treatment instructions assisting with the logistics and other arrangements of traveling to the destination e.g. of his or her choice for surgery or other major medical interventions e.g. if it is not located in the patient s home area on the other hand if the individual s condition is judged to be preference sensitive then guiding him or her through an appropriate counseling and education process for each of the alternative treatments that is available under the terms of his or her insurance coverage the risks of complications and prognosis for recovery from each of the alternatives and otherwise preparing him or her to discuss treatment options next in an informed manner with the physician counselor e.g. to select a final course of treatment then if the selection is for a surgical or another major medical intervention path as before helping him or her choose the most cost effective location and or surgeon for the surgery e.g. based upon the quality and or success rate of the surgeon the benefits and any incentives available from his or her insurance policy . Embodiments can also facilitate the individual s preparing for the surgery or other major medical intervention itself so he or she can be a very informed patient maximizing the benefits of his surgery or other major medical interventions by properly complying with pre and post treatment instructions assisting him or her with the logistics and other arrangements of traveling to the destination e.g. of his or her choice for surgery e.g. if it is not located in the patient s home area on the other hand if the treatment path selected is non surgical in nature then helping the individual choose the most cost effective location and or the physician for the selected treatment e.g. based upon the quality and or success rate of the physician the benefits and any incentives available from his or her insurance policy . Embodiments can also facilitate the individual s preparing for the treatment itself so he or she can be a very informed patient maximizing the benefits of his treatment by properly complying with the recovery and rehabilitation instructions assisting him with the logistics medical appointment and or other arrangements of traveling to the destination of his or her choice for surgery or other major medical intervention e.g. if it is not located in the patient s home area .

In an embodiment herein there can be an evaluation by the computer using one or more pre programmed models of the received information about the individual regarding his or her initial diagnosis disease condition and or severity co morbidity other clinical information demographic information statistical information comparative treatment effectiveness information and or other relevant information as well as any combination of these kinds of information against a knowledge base containing information about the appropriateness of various available treatments their possible complications and or prognosis for recovery for the individual.

In another embodiment there can be an evaluation of the available alternative treatments judged suitable for the individual against information received about the individual s insurance coverage deductible incentives if any and or any other suitable information sufficient for cost benefit analysis.

In another embodiment there can be computer directed information and pre programmed education dispensed to the individual regarding his or her available treatment options possibility of complications and prognosis for recovery for each treatment option.

In a further embodiment there can be computer managed matching and instructions about meeting a surgeon or alternative treatment physician regarding a final treatment path selection.

In another embodiment there can be a computer managed counseling regarding the final treatment choice once it is made and a cost benefit analysis about receiving the chosen treatment from a list of possible locations and suitable physician to maximize the medical benefit at an optimum cost to the individual.

In yet another embodiment there can be computer assisted arrangements to help the individual with the logistics medical appointment and or other arrangements of traveling to the destination of his or her choice for the surgery or other treatment e.g. if the destination is not located in the patient s home area .

Though the embodiments herein pertain to method machine manufacture composition of matter article and improvements thereto to be succinct consider representatively a method of assisting an individual suffering from a serious ailment who has received an initial diagnosis of needing surgical or other invasive treatment s and who is consequently going to make an informed decision about or agree to the remaining course of his treatment s . More specifically consider computer related and implemented systems relating to a capability of automatically analyzing his disease condition to determine if comparable alternate treatment s to surgery are available if such alternate treatments are covered by his benefit plan and in some embodiments a capability of automatically guiding the individual through the necessary education information and a guidance process so he or she can make an informed decision in consultation with his surgeon or physician while in other embodiments assisting the individual in making a final cost benefit analysis choosing the location and physician to receive treatments from as well as arranging for his or her travel logistics and medical appointments.

Embodiments can implement a capability of assisting an individual choose a final course of his treatment and travel to any location to receive the treatment as exemplified above. Embodiments may be distinct or in combination with clinical screening or matching systems such as suitability of surgical treatment s in view of the individual s demographic and or medical conditions including severity of disease co morbidity and other factors. Embodiments can provide guidance scheduling education information and counseling about available alternate treatments if any including recovery prospects and probability of complications of each treatment. There shall also be a capability of performing appropriate cost benefit analysis given the limits and any incentives of the insurance policy of the individual. In some embodiments there shall also be a capability of physician appointment treatment scheduling ticketing and other logistics of traveling if the final treatment is to be received from a location away from the individual s home area.

As illustrated in some embodiments can be represented by a flow in which an individual receives guidance education counseling cost benefit analysis treatment physician selection scheduling and travel service. As should also be noted with respect to an embodiment can have a capability of resulting in an effective management of the process of receiving guidance education counseling cost benefit analysis treatment physician selection scheduling and travel services.

Consider too that for an embodiment to properly manage the process as exemplified above the system should receive appropriate amounts and types of data. While the types and amounts of data will reflect to a degree the particular embodiment or implementation at preferred and can vary from time to time based on the contemporary state of understanding of the relative efficacy of the various types of treatment including improved understanding of human physiology and development of newer treatments in one embodiment there can be a capability of processing and or transforming data corresponding to the individual s disease severity and other clinical information demographic information statistical information other relevant information as well as any combination of these kinds of information.

Embodiments herein again can be implemented via a web site linking the computer system with another computer system corresponding to the individual. A further embodiment can implement one of the embodiments herein as a prerequisite to honoring an insurance claim related to the treatment or procedure and there can be computer to computer communication with an insurance computer system to carry out this function.

Accordingly though the embodiments herein pertain to process machine manufacture or composition of matter and improvements to be succinct consider representatively in this case an apparatus comprising a first computer system comprising a digital computer operably associated with an input device a memory and an output device the computer programmed to carry out operations including loading the memory with information about surgical and non surgical treatments available human ailments including corresponding possibilities of complications and prognosis for recovery from each treatment for the ailment as a function of co morbidity and severity loading the memory with educational and informational modules about alternate treatment choices for each of the ailments and at least one corresponding possibility of a complication and a prognosis for recovery loading the memory with price quality and outcome information about treatment facilities and associated physicians where each of the treatment choices is available receiving at the computer from information input at said input device data corresponding to an individual s disease initial diagnosis medical condition including co morbidity and severity information demographics information statistical information or any combination of the information plus information about any insurance or other benefit coverage limits and incentives of the individual processing the data with the computer so as to produce a determination of whether the individual suffers from a preference sensitive condition and producing at said output device output disclosing the determination.

In another perspective there can be an apparatus comprising a first computer system comprising a digital computer operably associated with an input device a memory and an output device the computer programmed to carry out operations including loading the memory with information about surgical and non surgical treatments available human ailments including corresponding possibilities of complications and prognosis for recovery from each treatment for the ailment as a function of co morbidity and severity loading the memory with educational and informational modules about alternate treatment choices for each of the ailments and at least one corresponding possibility of a complication and a prognosis for recovery loading the memory with price quality and outcome information about treatment facilities and associated physicians where each of the treatment choices is available receiving at the computer from information input at said input device data corresponding to an individual s disease initial diagnosis medical condition including co morbidity and severity information demographics information statistical information comparative treatment efficacy information or any combination of the information plus information about any insurance or other benefit coverage limits and incentives of the individual processing the data with the computer so as to produce a determination of whether the individual suffers from a non preference sensitive condition and producing at said output device output disclosing the determination.

In such embodiments the apparatus can further include a second computer system comprising a second digital computer operably associated with a second input device a second memory and a second output device the second computer programmed to carry out operations including receiving at least some of the output disclosing the determination.

Also in such embodiments as mentioned above the communicating operation is carried out via a web site.

And in such embodiments the first computer can generate further output referring an individual to a surgical consultant associated with a surgery corresponding to the determination.

Notably in such embodiments the computer can generate other output so as to facilitate the individual choosing a most cost effective location and surgeon for a surgery corresponding to the determination said other output reflecting respective measures of quality and success rate of a surgeon any benefit and any incentive available from insurance for the surgery or other major medical interventions.

In such embodiments the computer can generate additional output so as to facilitate logistics and arrangements for traveling to the destination of chosen by the individual for a surgery or other major medical interventions corresponding to the determination.

And in such embodiments the computer can generate yet further output including a counseling and education session for each of the treatments.

Also in such embodiments the session can comprise providing information regarding the terms of insurance coverage risk of complication and prognosis for recovery from each of the alternatives.

In such embodiments the session can include a selection of a final treatment for a surgery or other major medical interventions corresponding to the determination including facilitating a choice of a most cost effective location and medical provider for the intervention.

And in some embodiments the selection can be formulated based upon at least one of quality and success rate of a medical provider benefits and any incentives available from an insurance policy.

Also in such embodiments if the selection is for a non surgical treatment there can be a generating of output helping the individual choose the most cost effective location and physician for the selected treatment.

Embodiments herein again can be viewed from the perspective of an article e.g. as an article comprising computer readable media tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by a computer to perform the operations of receiving data corresponding to an individual s disease diagnosis severity and co morbidity information demographics information statistical information or any combination thereof data corresponding to availability of alternate treatments at least one possibility of complication at least one prognosis for recovery from each said treatment at least one treatment option price quality and outcome information corresponding to at least one treatment facility and at least one associated physician and coverage limit and any incentive of the individual s insurance processing the data to determine first if the individual suffers from a preference sensitive condition and producing output disclosing the determination.

And again embodiments herein can be viewed from the standpoint of a process i.e. method such as a method of using an apparatus the method comprising providing first computer system comprising a digital computer operably associated with an input device a memory and an output device loading the memory with information about surgical or other major medical interventions and non surgical treatments available for human ailments including corresponding possibilities of complications and prognosis for recovery from each treatment for the ailment as a function of co morbidity and severity loading the memory with educational and informational modules about alternate treatment choices for each of the ailments and at least one corresponding possibility of a complication and a prognosis for recovery loading the memory with price quality and outcome information about treatment facilities and associated physicians where each of the treatment choices is available receiving at the computer from information input at said input device data corresponding to an individual s disease initial diagnosis medical condition including co morbidity and severity information demographics information statistical information or any combination of the information plus information about any insurance or other benefit coverage limits and incentives of the individual processing the data with the computer so as to produce a determination of whether the individual suffers from a preference sensitive condition and producing at said output device output disclosing the determination.

Also in such embodiments can be viewed as another method of using an apparatus the method comprising providing a first computer system comprising a digital computer operably associated with an input device a memory and an output device loading the memory with information about surgical and non surgical treatments available human ailments including corresponding possibilities of complications and prognosis for recovery from each treatment for the ailment as a function of co morbidity and severity loading the memory with educational and informational modules about alternate treatment choices for each of the ailments and at least one corresponding possibility of a complication and a prognosis for recovery loading the memory with price quality and outcome information about treatment facilities and associated physicians where each of the treatment choices is available receiving at the computer from information input at said input device data corresponding to an individual s disease initial diagnosis medical condition including co morbidity and severity information demographics information statistical information or any combination of the information plus information about any insurance or other benefit coverage limits and incentives of the individual processing the data with the computer so as to produce a determination of whether the individual suffers from a non preference sensitive condition and producing at said output device output disclosing the determination.

So to overview with respect to there can be a machine method article illustratively the machine including providing first computer system comprising a digital computer operably associated with an input device a memory and an output device loading the memory with information about surgical or other major medical interventions and non surgical treatments available for human ailments including corresponding possibilities of complications and prognosis for recovery from each treatment for the ailment as a function of co morbidity and severity loading the memory with educational and informational modules about alternate treatment choices for each of the ailments and at least one corresponding possibility of a complication and a prognosis for recovery loading the memory with price quality and outcome information about treatment facilities and associated physicians where each of the treatment choices is available receiving at the computer from information input at said input device data corresponding to an individual s disease initial diagnosis medical condition including co morbidity and severity information demographics information statistical information comparative treatment effectiveness information or any combination of the information plus information about any insurance or other benefit coverage limits and incentives of the individual processing the data with the computer so as to produce a determination the determination including a determination of whether the individual suffers from a non preference sensitive condition or a preference sensitive condition and producing at said output device output disclosing the determination.

With respect to an individual suffering from an ailment who has received an initial diagnosis of or otherwise desires surgical or other major medical intervention s and who is consequently going to make an informed decision about or agree to the remaining course of his or her treatment s consider embodiments applicable to the process of his or her understanding and decision making. In one example consider such decision making as having careful guidance counseling education information and other assistances e.g. at layman levels so his or her choices can be optimized based upon available treatment options risks of complications and or prognosis for improving the medical condition from each possible treatment. Consider also that he or she needs to properly understand the limit of his or her insurance coverage and any incentives therein including available choice of physician or other health practitioner and alternate locations to receive treatments an appropriate cost benefits analysis or other such information. An embodiment herein can facilitate an individual s understanding and decision making applicable to such a situation e.g. by first using the initial diagnosis disease condition and severity co morbidity other clinical information demographic information statistical information comparative treatment efficacy information and or other relevant information as well as any combination of these kinds of information and then judging if the individual s condition is a preference sensitive one i.e. if he or she suffers from a condition for which appropriate alternate treatment s to surgery or other major medical interventions are available with comparable prognosis for improving the medical condition and how much he is covered for each alternate treatment under the terms of his or her insurance policy and then if his condition is judged not to be preference sensitive referring him or her to an appropriate surgical consultant. Embodiments can follow this with appropriate counseling about the specific surgery or other major medical interventions recommended by the treatment consultant so the individual can choose the most cost effective location and or medical provider for the surgery or other major medical intervention e.g. based upon the quality and success rate of the medical provider available outcomes statistics or other information about the expected prognosis for improving the medical condition of the specific surgery or other major medical interventions the benefits and any incentives available from his or her insurance policy. Embodiments can also facilitate the individual s preparing for the surgery or other major medical intervention itself maximizing the benefits of the surgery or other major medical intervention by properly complying with pre and post treatment instructions assisting with the logistics and other arrangements of traveling to the destination e.g. of his or her choice for surgery or other major medical intervention e.g. if it is not located in the patient s home area on the other hand if the individual s condition is judged to be preference sensitive then guiding him or her through an appropriate counseling and education process for each of the alternative treatments that is available under the terms of his or her insurance or other benefit plan coverage the risks of complications and outcomes statistics or other information about the expected prognosis for improving the medical condition from each of the alternatives and otherwise preparing him or her to discuss treatment options next in an informed manner with the physician or other health counselor e.g. to select a final course of treatment then if the selection is for a surgical or other major medical intervention path as before helping him or her choose the most cost effective location and or medical provider for the treatment e.g. based upon the quality and or success rate of the medical provider available outcomes statistics or other information about the expected prognosis for improving the medical condition of the specific surgery or other major medical intervention the benefits and any incentives available from his or her insurance policy . Embodiments can also facilitate the individual s preparing for the surgery or other major medical intervention itself so he or she can be an informed patient maximizing the benefits of his surgery by or other major medical interventions properly complying with pre and post treatment instructions assisting him or her with the logistics and other arrangements of traveling to the destination e.g. of his or her choice of his or her choice for surgery or other major medical intervention e.g. if it is not located in the patient s home area on the other hand if the treatment path selected is non surgical in nature then helping the individual choose the most cost effective location and or the physician or other health practitioner for the selected treatment e.g. based upon the quality and or success rate of the physician and or health practitioner outcome statistic s or other information about the expected prognosis for improving the medical condition of the specific treatment the benefits and any incentives available from his or her insurance policy . Embodiments can also facilitate the individual s preparing for the treatment itself so he or she can be an informed patient maximizing the benefits of his treatment by properly complying with the recovery and rehabilitation instructions assisting him with the logistics medical appointment and or other arrangements of traveling to the destination of his or her choice for treatment e.g. if it is not located in the patient s home area .

In an embodiment herein there can be an evaluation by the computer using one or more pre programmed models of the received information about the individual regarding any initial diagnosis condition and or severity of the ailment co morbidity other clinical information demographic information statistical information and or other relevant information as well as any combination of these kinds of information against a knowledge base containing information about the appropriateness of various available treatments their possible complications and or outcomes statistics or other information about the expected prognosis for improving the medical condition of the potential treatments.

In another embodiment there can be an evaluation of the available alternative treatments judged suitable for the individual against information received about the individual s insurance coverage deductible incentives if any and or any other suitable information sufficient for cost benefit analysis.

In another embodiment there can be computer directed information and pre programmed education dispensed to the individual regarding his or her available treatment options possibility of complications and outcomes statistics or other information about the expected prognosis for improving the medical condition for each treatment option.

In a further embodiment there can be computer managed matching instructions about meeting a surgeon or alternative treatment physician or other health practitioner regarding a final treatment path selection.

In another embodiment there can be a computer managed counseling regarding the final treatment choice once it is made and a cost benefit analysis about receiving the chosen treatment from a list of possible locations and suitable physician or other health practitioner to maximize the medical benefit at an optimum cost to the individual.

In yet another embodiment there can be computer assisted arrangements to help the individual with the logistics medical appointment and or other arrangements of traveling to the destination of his or her choice for the surgery or other treatment e.g. if the destination is not located in the patient s home area .

Though the embodiments herein pertain to method machine manufacture composition of matter article and improvements thereto to be succinct consider representatively a method of assisting an individual suffering from an ailment who has received an initial diagnosis of or otherwise desires surgical or other invasive treatment s and who is consequently going to make an informed decision about or agree to the remaining course of his treatment s . More specifically consider computer related and implemented systems relating to a capability of automatically analyzing his disease condition to determine if comparable alternate treatment s to surgery are available if such alternate treatments are covered by his benefit plan and in some embodiments a capability of automatically guiding the individual through the necessary education information and a guidance process so he or she can make an informed decision in consultation with his surgeon or physician or other health practitioner while in other embodiments assisting the individual in making a final cost benefit analysis choosing the location and physician or other health practitioner to receive treatments from as well as arranging for his or her travel logistics and medical appointments.

Embodiments can implement a capability of assisting an individual choose a final course of his treatment and travel to any location to receive the treatment as exemplified above. Embodiments may be distinct or in combination with clinical screening or matching systems such as suitability of surgical or other major medical interventions in view of the individual s demographic and or medical conditions including severity of ailment co morbidity and other factors. Embodiments can provide guidance scheduling education information and counseling about available alternate treatments if any including outcomes statistics or other information about the expected prognosis for improving the medical condition and probability of complications of each treatment. There shall also be a capability of performing appropriate cost benefit analysis given the limits and any incentives of the insurance policy of the individual. In some embodiments there shall also be a capability of physician or other health practitioner appointment treatment scheduling ticketing and other logistics of traveling if the final treatment is to be received from a location away from the individual s home area.

As illustrated in some embodiments can be represented by a flow in which an individual receives guidance education counseling cost benefit analysis treatment physician or other health practitioner selection scheduling and travel services.

As should also be noted with respect to an embodiment can have a capability of resulting in an effective management of the process of receiving guidance education counseling cost benefit analysis treatment physician or other health practitioner selection scheduling and travel services.

Consider too that for an embodiment to properly manage the process as exemplified above the system should receive appropriate amounts and types of data. While the types and amounts of data will reflect to a degree the particular embodiment or implementation as may be preferred and can vary from time to time based on the contemporary state of understanding of the relative efficacy of the various types of treatment including improved understanding of human physiology and development of newer treatments in one embodiment there can be a capability of processing and or transforming data corresponding to the individual s severity of ailment and other clinical information demographic information statistical information comparative treatment efficacy information other relevant information as well as any combination of these kinds of information.

Embodiments herein can be implemented via a web site linking the computer system with another computer system corresponding to the individual. A further embodiment can implement one of the embodiments herein as a prerequisite to honoring an insurance claim related to the treatment or procedure and there can be computer to computer communication with an insurance computer system to carry out this function.

Accordingly though the embodiments herein pertain to process machine manufacture or composition of matter and improvements to be succinct consider representatively an apparatus comprising a first computer system comprising a digital computer operably associated with an input device a memory and an output device the computer programmed to carry out operations including loading the memory with information about surgical and non surgical treatments available for various human ailments including corresponding possibilities of complications and outcomes statistics or other information about the expected prognosis for improving the medical condition from each treatment for the ailment as a function of co morbidity and severity loading the memory with educational and informational modules about alternate treatment choices for each of the ailments and at least one corresponding possibility of a complication and a prognosis for improving the medical condition loading the memory with price quality and outcome information about treatment facilities and at least one associated health practitioner where each of the treatment choices is available receiving at the computer from information input at said input device data corresponding to an individual s ailment any initial diagnosis medical condition including co morbidity and severity information demographics information statistical information or any combination of the information plus information about any insurance or other benefit coverage limits and incentives of the individual processing the data with the computer so as to produce a determination of whether the individual suffers from a preference sensitive condition and producing at said output device output disclosing the determination.

In another view illustratively there can be an apparatus comprising a first computer system comprising a digital computer operably associated with an input device a memory and an output device the computer programmed to carry out operations including loading the memory with information about surgical and non surgical treatments available for various human ailments including corresponding possibilities of complications and outcomes statistics or other information about the expected prognosis for improving the medical condition from each treatment for the ailment as a function of co morbidity and severity loading the memory with educational and informational modules about alternate treatment choices for each of the ailments and at least one corresponding possibility of a complication and a prognosis for improving the medical condition loading the memory with price quality and outcome information about treatment facilities and at least one associated health practitioner where each of the treatment choices is available receiving at the computer from information input at said input device data corresponding to an individual s ailment any initial diagnosis medical condition including co morbidity and severity information demographics information statistical information or any combination of the information plus information about any insurance or other benefit coverage limits and incentives of the individual processing the data with the computer so as to produce a determination of whether the individual suffers from a non preference sensitive condition and producing at said output device output disclosing the determination.

Such embodiments can further include a second computer system comprising a second digital computer operably associated with a second input device a second memory and a second output device the second computer programmed to carry out operations including receiving at least some of the output disclosing the determination.

And there can be embodiments wherein the first computer generates further output referring an individual to a surgical or other major medical intervention consultant associated with a surgery or other major medical intervention corresponding to the determination.

Note that there can be embodiments wherein the computer generates other output so as to facilitate the individual choosing a most cost effective location and surgeon for a surgery corresponding to the determination said other output reflecting at least one of a measure of quality of a surgeon a success rate of the surgeon an outcome statistic for a surgery a prognosis for improving the medical condition from the specific surgery or any combination thereof and any benefit and any incentive available from insurance or any other source for the surgery.

Also such embodiments can be carried out such that the computer generates additional output so as to facilitate logistics and arrangements for traveling to the destination of chosen by the individual for a surgery corresponding to the determination.

And there can be embodiments wherein the computer generates yet further output including a counseling and education session for each of the treatments.

Also in such embodiments the session can comprise providing information regarding the terms of insurance coverage risk of complication prognosis for improving the medical condition or combination thereof for improving the medical condition from each of the alternatives.

There can be embodiments wherein the session includes a selection of a final treatment for a surgery corresponding to the determination including facilitating a choice of a most cost effective location and surgeon for the surgery or other major medical intervention.

And there can be embodiments wherein the selection is formulated based upon at least one of quality and success rate of a surgeon or other major medical intervention provider benefits and any incentives available from an insurance policy or any other source.

Further embodiments can be such that if the selection is for a non surgical treatment generating output helping the individual choose the most cost effective location and health practitioner for the selected treatment.

Viewed now from the perspective of an article this or really any embodiment herein can be viewed as an article. So illustratively there can be an embodiment of an article comprising a computer readable media tangibly embodying a program of instructions executable by a computer to perform the operations of receiving data corresponding to an individual s ailment any diagnosis severity and co morbidity information demographics information statistical information comparative treatment efficacy information or any combination thereof data corresponding to availability of alternate treatments at least one possibility of complication at least one prognosis for improving the medical condition from each said treatment at least one treatment option price quality and outcome information corresponding to at least one treatment facility and at least one associated health practitioner and coverage limit and any incentive of the individual s insurance or of any other source processing the data to determine first if the individual suffers from a preference sensitive condition and producing output disclosing the determination.

Viewed now from the perspective of a method illustratively there can be a method of using an apparatus the method comprising providing first computer system comprising a digital computer operably associated with an input device a memory and an output device loading the memory with information about surgical and non surgical treatments available for human ailments including corresponding possibilities of complications and prognosis for improving the medical condition from each treatment for the ailment as a function of co morbidity and severity loading the memory with educational and informational modules about alternate treatment choices for each of the ailments and at least one corresponding possibility of a complication and a prognosis for improving the medical condition loading the memory with price quality and outcome information about treatment facilities and at least one associated health practitioner where each of the treatment choices is available receiving at the computer from information input at said input device data corresponding to an individual s ailment any initial diagnosis medical condition including co morbidity and severity information demographics information statistical information or any combination of the information plus information about any insurance or other benefit coverage limits and incentives of the individual processing the data with the computer so as to produce a determination of whether the individual suffers from a preference sensitive condition and producing at said output device output disclosing the determination.

In another way of thinking there can be a method of using an apparatus the method comprising providing first computer system comprising a digital computer operably associated with an input device a memory and an output device the computer programmed to carry out operations including loading the memory with information about surgical and non surgical treatments available for various human ailments including corresponding possibilities of complications and prognosis for improving the medical condition from each treatment for the ailment as a function of co morbidity and severity loading the memory with educational and informational modules about alternate treatment choices for each of the ailments and at least one corresponding possibility of a complication and a prognosis for improving the medical condition loading the memory with price quality and outcome information about treatment facilities and at least one associated health practitioner where each of the treatment choices is available receiving at the computer from information input at said input device data corresponding to an individual s ailment any initial diagnosis medical condition including co morbidity and severity information demographics information statistical information or any combination of the information plus information about any insurance or other benefit coverage limits and incentives of the individual processing the data with the computer so as to produce a determination of whether the individual suffers from a non preference sensitive condition and producing at said output device output disclosing the determination.

So to overview with respect to there can be a machine method article illustratively the machine including a method of using an apparatus the method including providing first computer system comprising a digital computer operably associated with an input device a memory and an output device loading the memory with information about surgical and non surgical treatments available for various human ailments including corresponding possibilities of complications and prognosis for improving the medical condition from each treatment for the ailment as a function of co morbidity and severity loading the memory with educational and informational modules about alternate treatment choices for each of the ailments and at least one corresponding possibility of a complication and a prognosis for improving the medical condition loading the memory with price quality and outcome information about treatment facilities and associated physician or other health practitioners where each of the treatment choices is available receiving at the computer from information input at said input device data corresponding to an individual s ailment any initial diagnosis medical condition including co morbidity and severity information demographics information statistical information comparative treatment efficacy information or any combination of the information plus information about any insurance or other benefit coverage limits and incentives of the individual processing the data with the computer so as to produce a determination the determination including a determination of whether the individual suffers from a non preference sensitive condition or a preference sensitive condition and producing at said output device output disclosing the determination with said determination appropriately educating and informing the individual enough so he or she can discuss his or her treatment options in an informed manner with a surgeon physician or other health professional and make the final selection for his or her treatment performing an appropriate cost benefits analysis to assist the individual select a destination and a surgeon physician or other health practitioner to receive his or her treatment securing the necessary medical appointment and making appropriate travel and other logistical arrangements for the individual.

Accordingly though the embodiments herein pertain to process machine manufacture or composition of matter and improvements to be succinct consider representatively a method of using an apparatus the method including storing data of a population in memory computing by a computer accessing the data stored in the memory a probability of at least one future medical treatment needed by at least one individual having data in the data of a population ascribing by the computer applying the computed probabilities each said individual with one of a plurality of risk stratifications for each said future medical treatment and producing by the computer communicating to an output device output including at least one said ascribed individual in association with the one of the risk stratifications.

In some embodiments the data of the population includes one or more of personal data demographic data health data behavioral data demographic data payer data insurance data governmental data comparative treatment efficacy data.

Note that in some embodiments the at least one medical treatment can include a surgical treatment and or a non surgical treatment and that in some embodiments the at least one medical treatment can include a treatment for which there is an alternative treatment determined by the computer accessing the database.

Some embodiments can further include determining by the computer accessing the memory whether at least one alternative treatment for the future medical treatment may be appropriate for the individual and producing at the output device output tailored responsive to the determination of whether said alternative treatment may be appropriate for the individual.

Some embodiments can further include forming by the computer accessing the data stored in the memory an association of travel by an individual and a health consequence as a result of the travel by the individual and generating at the output device output including the association.

And some embodiments can further include forming by a computer accessing the data stored in the memory an association of travel by an individual and a health consequence as a result of the travel by the individual and generating at the output device output including the association.

From another perspective illustratively there can be a method of using an apparatus the method including storing data of a population in memory computing by a computer accessing the data stored in the memory a probability of at least one future medical treatment needed by an individual having data in the data of a population determining by the computer accessing the memory whether at least one alternative treatment for the future medical treatment may be appropriate for the individual and producing at an output device operably associated with the computer output tailored responsive to the determination of whether said alternative treatment may be appropriate for the individual.

Some embodiments can further include storing medical provider data in memory and wherein the output includes provider information associated with at least one said treatment scheduling responsive to an instruction of the individual received from an input device an appointment for a provider corresponding to the provider information and generating at the output device information including the scheduled appointment and or generating with the computer travel information for the individual to carry out the scheduled appointment.

Also some embodiments can further include generating with the computer logistical information for the individual to carry out the scheduled appointment generating with the computer travel information for the individual to carry out an appointment corresponding to at least one said treatment and or generating with the computer logisitical information for the individual to carry out at least one said treatment.

In some embodiments the data of a population can include one or more of insurance claims data governmental claims data insurance benefits data governmental benefits data and or geographical data.

With respect to some embodiments the output can include one or more of educational material which references at least one of said treatments a risk indicator a prognosis of recovery an insurance benefit statement a governmental benefit statement an incentive statement and or a cost statement any of foregoing associated with at least one of said treatments.

Some embodiments can be carried out with the output including multimedia data video data audio data and or animation data.

Embodiments can be carried out by receiving information from the individual at a web server providing the output to the individual via a web site and or over a network.

Note that in some embodiments the provider data can include at least one provider associated with at least one said treatment e.g. personnel qualifications experience statements a treatment success rate a quality rating insurance approval data etc.

Also embodiments can further include determining by the computer accessing the memory whether at least one alternative treatment for the future medical treatment may be appropriate for the individual and producing at the output device output tailored responsive to the determination of whether said alternative treatment may be appropriate for the individual.

And embodiments can be viewed from a different perspective such as a method of using an apparatus the method including storing client data in memory forming by a computer accessing the data stored in the memory an association of travel by an individual and a health consequence as a result of the travel by the individual and generating at an output device operably associated with the computer output including the association.

In any of the embodiments the forming can include one or more of determining a travel distance a travel duration an amount of time other than a travel time an amount of time of rest after traveling an amount of time to wait after travel before commencing a medical procedure and or an amount of time to wait before travel after a medical procedure a safety score.

Note too that the embodiments herein are a prophetic teaching and although only a few exemplary embodiments have been described in detail herein those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that many modifications are possible in the exemplary embodiments without materially departing from the novel predictions or teachings and advantages herein. Please understand that features illustrated in the Figure and texts are interwoven rather than integral and sequential e.g. as in sub steps. Accordingly all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope herein and if used herein means plus function language is intended to cover the structures described herein as performing the recited function and not only structural equivalents but also equivalent structures. Thus for example although a nail and a screw may not be structural equivalents in that a nail employs a cylindrical surface to secure wooden parts together whereas a screw employs a helical surface in the environment fastening wooden parts a nail and a screw can be equivalent structures.

