---

title: Intelligent routing of coordinated audio, video, web services and measurement data streams
abstract: A system may receive a request from a client station to communicate with any available expert that matches at least one criterion. The system determines an identity of an expert station associated with an expert matching the at least one criterion. The system may then establish a session between the client station and the expert station, where the session includes a first connection and a second connection, the first connection is for transmission of audio/video, and the second connection is for transmission of telemetry data during the transmission of the audio/video. The telemetry data is measured at the client station.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08539083&OS=08539083&RS=08539083
owner: Cisco Technology, Inc.
number: 08539083
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100309
---
This application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 159 244 INTELLIGENT ROUTING OF COORDINATED AUDIO VIDEO WEB SERVICES AND MEASUREMENT DATA filed Mar. 11 2009 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Remote expert access systems may connect a client with an expert. For example the client may call the expert to discuss a question.

Current remote expert access systems facilitate a client connecting to a specific endpoint identified by the client. For example the client may enter a phone number of a particular expert or a phone number of a particular physical location such as a phone number of a center of expertise. The remote expert access system may then establish a phone call or a video conference between a source endpoint that initiated the phone call and an destination endpoint specifically identified by the client.

By way of introduction the example embodiments described below include a system logic encoded in a computer readable media and a method for routing coordinated streams of audio video and measured data.

According to a first aspect a system is provided. The system receives a request from a client station to communicate with any available expert that matches at least one criterion. The system determines an identity of an expert station associated with an expert matching the at least one criterion. The system establishes a session between the client station and the expert station where the session includes a first connection and a second connection. The first connection is for transmission of audio video. The second connection is for transmission of telemetry data during the transmission of the audio video. The telemetry data is measured at the client station.

In a second aspect logic encoded in a computer readable media is provided. The logic is operable to receive a request to communicate with any available expert matching at least one criterion from a client station. The logic is further operable to determine an identity of an expert station associated with an expert matching the at least one criterion. The logic may start a session between the client station and the expert station where the session includes a first connection and a second connection the first connection is for transmission of audio video and the second connection is for transmission of telemetry data generated by a device at the client station.

In a third aspect a method is provided. A request to connect to any expert that meets at least one criterion is transmitted from a client station where the at least one criterion and the request do not include an identity of a matching expert or an identity of an expert station associated with the matching expert. The identity of the expert station associated with the matching expert is received at the client station in response to the request to connect. Audio video is communicated over a first connection between the client station and the expert station. Telemetry data measured by at least one device in the client station is received at the client station. The telemetry data is transmitted over a second connection from the client station to the expert station. Both the first and second connections are included in a session between the client station and the expert station.

The present invention is defined by the following claims and nothing in this section should be taken as a limitation on those claims. Further aspects and advantages of the invention are discussed below in conjunction with the example embodiments.

A client using a remote expert access system may not know in advance an identity of an expert or a location where the expert is available. The client may instead know what type of expert is sought. In addition to video conferencing with the client the expert may also need information about the client in order to appropriately advise the client. For example the expert may need information measured at the client s location such as a doctor needing vitals taken of a patient in order to make a diagnosis.

In one example implementation a system for rule based routing of coordinated streams of audio video and measured data may include client stations and expert stations in communication with a coordinated routing system. The client stations and expert stations may include teleconferencing equipment and additional devices. For example the client station may include a stethoscope and a heart monitor. The coordinated routing system may be a server machine or a collection of server machines.

During operation of the example implementation experts may sign into the coordinated routing system via the expert stations in order to indicate that the experts are available to help clients. The coordinated routing system may store attributes of each of the experts. For example the attributes may include the type of expert the gender of the expert what languages the expert speaks or any other descriptive attribute. A client at one of the client stations may indicate to the coordinated routing system what type of expert the client seeks. The coordinated routing system may determine whether any of the expert stations have an expert available that matches the type of expert sought by the client. If any of the expert stations match then the coordinated routing system may initiate a session between the matching expert station and the client station. The session may include a video conferencing session. Furthermore the coordinated routing system may initiate communication of at least one data stream from the client station to the expert station during the session. The data stream includes measured data that the expert may use in rendering an opinion. For example the data stream may provide stethoscope audio generated at the client station to head phones at the expert station. The coordinated routing system may disconnect the data stream when the video conference session ends or in response to receiving an indication that the expert is finished with the data stream.

The coordinated routing system may make information related to the client or expert available based on the session. For example the session may include an identity of the client. Therefore a custom application used by the expert and or the client may invoke a web service in the coordinated routing system to obtain the identity of the client. The custom application may provide based on the identity of the client enriched and or contextualized information to the expert and or the client. The enriched and or contextualized information may be stored in an insurance company database or some other database and may include information gathered during previous encounters with the client such as a medication history of the client.

Clients may not have to determine in advance who has a desired expertise and then schedule an appointment with that individual. The expert may obtain data measured in real time at a client station in order to supplement information conveyed in a video conference between the client and expert. A better end user experience between the client and the expert results.

The coordinated routing system may be any device combination of devices processes or any combination thereof that determines an identity of the expert station based on rules applied to criterion or criteria and initiates a session between the expert station and the client station . The session may include an audio video connection and a device connection for transportation of measured data. The criterion may include any attribute with which to find a match. The criterion may or may not include either the identity of the expert or the identity of the expert station . Examples of the coordinated routing system include but are not limited to a software application a combination of software applications a server machine a combination of server machines a blade server a combination of blade servers or any combination thereof.

The term audio video in this document refers to audio video or a combination of both in which the audio and video are synchronized. Therefore in one example the coordinated routing system may initiate the session that includes an audio connection such as a telephone call and the device connection but not a video connection. In a second example the coordinate stream router may initiate the session that includes the device connection and a connection for both video and audio where both the video and audio are synchronized with each other.

The coordinated routing system may include a routing engine an audio video manager a portal application web services a custom application and a session management application . The coordinated routing system may include additional different or fewer components. For example the coordinated routing system may include a processor and a memory .

The routing engine may be any process device or any combination thereof that routes at least a portion of the session from the client station to the expert station based on business rules . The routing engine may use network presence technologies or any other technique now known or later discovered to identify who is present on the network at which station such as determining who is logged in at the expert station . The routing engine may match routing scripts that include information about what experts are available on the network with attributes of the available experts. The routing engine may establish a session with one of the available expert stations based on the matches. Therefore in one example the routing engine may include an automatic call distributor ACD that distributes incoming calls among a group of call agents such as Cisco Unified Contact Center Enterprise from Cisco Technologies. In one example the routing engine may establish the audio video connection but not the device connection between the client station and expert station .

The business rules used by the routing engine may be preconfigured or configured dynamically. The business rules may be computer instructions or scripts that indicate how routing should be performed specific to a business or an organization. The business rules may include policies of the business or the organization. Examples of the business rules include but are not limited to routing to a preferred hospital routing to a preferred provider routing to an in network provider first and routing to a particular type of provider first. In one example if the client is enrolled in a healthcare insurance plan from a particular healthcare provider the business rules may indicate to the routing engine that the session should be routed to the expert station associated with an expert in a hospital owned by the particular healthcare provider. In a second example if the client is enrolled in a healthcare insurance plan that provides different coverage depending on whether a doctor belongs to a healthcare network of providers then the business rules may indicate to the routing engine that the session should be routed to the expert station associated with an expert that belongs to the healthcare network of preferred providers. In a third example if no expert is available or available within a predetermined period of time in the healthcare network of providers then the business rules may indicate to the routing engine that the session should be routed to the expert station associated with an expert that does not belong to the healthcare network.

The business rules may be configured to form virtual networks. For example the business rules may indicate that a first patient enrolled in a first healthcare insurance plan should be routed to resources under the control of the first healthcare insurance plan. Additionally the business rules may indicate that a second patient enrolled in a second healthcare insurance should be routed to resources under the control of the second healthcare plan. Therefore although patients enrolled in either the first or second healthcare insurance plans may use the same client station the coordinated routing system enforces a virtual network for each of the healthcare insurance plans. The business rules for an organization associated with a virtual network may be modified to route to resources in another network if the organization later wishes to do so.

The routing engine and or the SMA may determine the business rules from scripts. Alternatively or in addition the business rules may be embodied in compiled executable instructions.

The business rules may be specific to a particular deployment or implementation. The scripts may be generated dynamically by users of the system. For example the portal application or some other application may enable an administrator user to specify through a graphical user interface the business rules for a particular deployment. In one implementation the client may select preferred characteristics of an expert through the graphical user interface. For example the preferred characteristics may include language skills expert specialty in or out of network preference or any other type of attribute that describes an expert. The selections made by the client may correspond to the parameters for the routing. The portal application may then generate the scripts based on the input received through the graphical user interface.

Alternatively or in addition information used to generate the scripts or to otherwise implement the business rules may be obtained for example through the web services . The web services may access one or more databases to provide the information used to implement the business rules . For example in order to determine whether the client is enrolled in a healthcare insurance plan from a particular healthcare provider a web service may access a database populated with membership information from the particular healthcare provider. The web service may return one of the scripts that is executable with the routing engine .

The routing engine may include software tools APIs application programming interfaces or both that enable software components to configure the routing engine . For example the routing engine may implement an API that facilitates programmatically setting parameters of and providing other configuration information to the routing engine . For example a software component such as the custom application may make calls to the API in order to dynamically establish connections among endpoints such as the client station and the expert station based on the business rules . The software component may provide the information via the API in the form of the routing script for example.

For example Table 1 below illustrates an example of Java code controlling routing of the session by providing information via the API implemented in the routing engine .

The audio video manager may be any process device or any combination thereof that establishes audio video connections between identified client stations and identified expert stations. In a first example the audio video manager is included in the routing engine . In a second example the routing engine is in communication with the audio video manager in order to establish the audio video connection between the client station and the expert station . Examples of the audio video manager include but are not limited to a teleconferencing server Cisco TELEPRESENCE Manager server which is a registered trademark of Cisco Technologies an IP Internet protocol telephony call processing system Cisco Unified Communications Manager or a conferencing bridge.

The session management application SMA may be any process device or any combination thereof that may establish maintain and otherwise manage sessions between the stations such as between the client station and the expert station . The SMA may be in communication with the routing engine the audio video manager and the stations such as the client station and the expert station . The SMA may coordinate the connections in the session such as the audio video connection and the device connection. The session includes the audio video connection and at least one device connection. The session may include additional information such as information related to the session. For example the session may include an identity of a patient at the client station and an identity of an expert at the expert station . The SMA may maintain session information and information about registered stations in an SMA database . The SMA database may be included in the SMA . Alternatively or in addition the SMA database may be separate from the SMA .

The session may be an information interchange between two or more stations. The session is set up or established at one point in time and torn down at a later point in time. The session is stateful. The SMA may maintain session state in the SMA database . The connections established as part of the session may be established using any protocol such as TCP IP transmission control protocol Internet protocol SIP session initiation protocol HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol or any other communications protocol now known or later discovered. The length of the session may be tied to one or more of the connections included in the session. For example the duration of the session may be based on the duration of the audio video connection. For example the session may begin when the audio video connection is opened and end when the audio video connection is closed.

The SMA may include an API application programming interface . The API may provide access to the session information. Alternatively or in additional the API may provide an ability to initiate sessions or connections within sessions. Alternatively or in addition the API may provide services related to but not limited to dynamic routing between stations acquiring data from third party devices and other data sources invoking web services through a web services invocation framework integrating third party devices and other data sources integrating and synchronizing audio video steams in the audio video connections with the device streams over the device connections quality of service features security features identity and presence services.

The portal application may be any process device or any combination thereof that authenticates users of the coordinated routing system . The portal application may include a web application that may or may not include a portal that is customizable with portlets. The portal application upon authentication of a user may redirect the user to the custom application . Alternatively or in addition the portal application may be configured to include a portlet that executes and or redirects the user to the custom application .

The custom application may be any process device or any combination thereof that processes information related to the session created between the client station and the expert station . The system for rule based routing of coordinated streams of video and measured data has many real world applications. To that end the custom application may be specific to any one or more of those real world applications. In one example the custom application may be for doctors and generate web pages viewable on the expert station . The web pages may provide medical related information such as a patient s name a patient s vitals measured at the client station a patient s medical records a prescription from a doctor to patient drug dispensing instructions from the doctor or any other data derived from the session. In a second example the custom application may be for a banking expert and generate web pages that include information scanned from a card reader at the client station and other information related to a financial transaction desired by a user at the client station .

The web services may be any process device or any combination thereof that provides the custom application with access to information related to the session. For example through the web services the custom application may determine the identity of a user at the client station . Alternatively or in addition the custom application may receive data measured at the client station during the session from the web services . Alternatively or in addition the custom application may receive any other information related to the session. Alternatively or in addition the web services may provide an API application programming interface with which components such as the SMA may access the custom application .

The coordinated routing system may be in communication with the client station and the expert station over the network . Examples of the network include but are not limited to a local area network LAN a wireless local area network WLAN a personal area network PAN a wide area network WAN the Internet any other now known or later developed communications network and any combination thereof.

The memory may be any now known or later discovered tangible data storage device. The memory may include non volatile memory volatile memory or any combination thereof. Examples of the memory include but are not limited to a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or flash memory. The memory may include an optical magnetic hard drive or any other form of data storage device.

The processor may be in communication with the memory . The processor may also be in communication with additional components such as a display not shown and a network interface card not shown . The processor may be a general processor central processing unit server application specific integrated circuit ASIC digital signal processor field programmable gate array FPGA digital circuit analog circuit or combinations thereof. The processor may be one or more devices operable to execute computer executable instructions or computer code embodied in the memory or in other memory that implement the logic described below for the coordinated routing system . As examples the memory may store program logic that implements the routing engine the audio video manager the portal application the web services and the custom application .

The systems and may be implemented in many different ways. For example the coordinated routing system may be implemented as a single device or as multiple devices. Each one of the multiple devices may include one or more processors such as the processor . Any one of the components in the coordinated routing system such as the routing engine may be implemented as program logic embedded in the memory a hardware circuit or any combination thereof. The components may be packaged together or include other components. For example the routing engine may include the audio video manager . Each one of the components may include a respective database for use by the respective component. Alternatively or in addition two or more of the components may share a database. Consequently when one component is described as transmitting information to or receiving information from another component that information may be directly transmitted to or received from a database.

The custom application and the portal application are illustrated in as part of the coordinated routing system . However in a different implementation the custom application and the portal application may be client server applications that are included in the client station the expert station or both.

The client station may be any device process or combination thereof that may be used to provide measurements taken at the client station and communicate the measurements along with the audio video over the network . The client station may include a client SMA interface an audio video interface a portal interface a device manager and at least one device for measuring data at the client station . The client station may include additional different or fewer components. For example the client station may include a processor and a memory such as the processor and the memory respectively. In one example the client station may not include the client SMA interface .

One example of the client station includes a pod for a patient to provide remote health diagnostic information about the patient over the network . The pod may be fully enclosed and self contained. A second example of the client station includes a banking expert advice station that connects with a remote banking expert. A third example of the client station includes a government transaction endpoint that facilitates citizens transacting with one or more government agencies. A fourth example of the client station consists of a laptop or computer connected to the device and video conferencing equipment. The client station may be any suitable form factor because the coordinated routing system may determine where the request to create the session comes from and the device manager may determine what devices are included in or in communication with the client station .

The device at the client station may be any device or combination of devices that measures or otherwise senses physical characteristics. For example the device may include a thermometer a retina camera or other biometric device. The device in the remote health diagnostic example may include a stethoscope a heart monitor a sphygmomanometer ear nose throat scopes echocardiographs ultrasound any other medical device or any combination thereof. The device in the banking client example may include a scanner a credit card reader and or issuing device an electronic signature pad a cash dispensing device a printer any transactional device that facilitates completion of a financial transaction or any combination thereof. The financial transaction may be the client signing a loan document for example. The device in the government transaction example may include the biometric device to verify the identity of the citizen.

The audio video interface may be any device process or combination thereof that receives and transmits audio video over the network . Examples of the audio video interface include a telephone a VoIP soft phone audio video streaming program an endpoint in a high definition television based system such as TELEPRESENCE which is a registered trademark of Cisco Technologies. In one example the audio video interface includes a speaker a microphone a display screen and a video camera. In a second example the audio video interface includes software that runs on a computer.

The portal interface may be any device process or combination thereof through which a user may communicate with the coordinated routing system . For example the portal interface may include a display device on which the portal interface displays a login screen. Alternatively or in addition the portal interface may generate a graphical user interface on a display device included in the audio video interface . In one example the portal interface may be in communication with the portal application . Alternatively or in addition the portal interface may be in communication with the custom application .

The device manager may be any device process or any combination thereof that gathers data from the devices at the client station and transmits that data over the network . For example the device manager may include a physical interface to the devices at the client station. In one example the device manager may include a web server that transmits data gathered from the devices in response to HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol requests. In a second example the device manager may include a TCP IP transmission control protocol Internet Protocol server from which the data gathered from the devices may be transmitted over the network . In a third example the device manager includes computer instructions configured to transmit the gathered data over the network . The device manager may provide an application programmer interface API in order to enable 3party devices to be added to the system . The device manager may be in communication with the portal interface so that a new devices portal may display information about the newly added device and or control the newly added device. Alternatively or in addition the device manager may communicate with portal application to enable registering an new application or user interface control for displaying information about the newly added device and or control the newly added device.

The client SMA interface may be any device process or any combination thereof that communicates with the SMA . Other devices or processes in the client station such as the portal interface and the device manager may communicate with the SMA via the client SMA interface . Alternatively or in addition other devices or processes in the expert station may communicate directly with the SMA . For example the device manager may communicate with the client SMA interface instead of communicating with the SMA directly.

The expert station may be any device process or combination thereof that may receive data measured at the client station and communicate the audio video over the network . The data measured at the client station may be referred to as telemetry data. The telemetry data may be in any number of forms such as discrete values a data stream real time data store and forward data data that is measured stored and then forwarded as a group from the client station or any other form now known or later discovered. The expert station may include an expert SMA interface an audio video interface a portal interface a device manager and a device in communication with the device manager . The expert station may include additional different or fewer components. For example the expert station may include a processor and a memory such as the processor and the memory respectively. In one example the expert station may not include the device . Alternatively or in addition the expert station may not include the expert SMA interface .

One example of the expert station includes a doctor station from which a doctor may offer medical advice to a patient at the client station . A second example of the expert station includes a banking station from which a financial expert may render advice or otherwise help a client at the client station . A third example of the expert station includes a laptop and teleconferencing equipment. A fourth example of the expert station includes a single computer. The expert station may be any suitable form factor. Additionally the expert station may serve as a client station . For example a primary care doctor at the expert station may desire advice from a cardiologist. The expert station may generate a request to start the session between the expert station of the primary care doctor and another expert station staffed by a suitable cardiologist. The patient may or may not be present at the expert station staffed by the primary care doctor.

The device at the expert station may be any device or combination of devices to assist an expert. Examples of the device include but are not limited to an electronic signature pad headphones a printer a specialized display device and a control device that controls a corresponding device at the client station such as a control for a cash dispensing device or credit card issuing device at the client station .

The audio video interface in the expert station may be any device or combination of devices that receives and transmits audio video over the network . Examples of the audio video interface include a telephone a VoIP soft phone audio video streaming program an endpoint in a high definition television based system such as TELEPRESENCE which is a registered trademark of Cisco Technologies. In one example the audio video interface includes a speaker a microphone a display screen and a video camera. In a second example the audio video interface includes software that runs on a computer.

The portal interface in the expert station may be any device process or combination thereof through which a user may communicate with the coordinated routing system . For example the portal interface may include a display device on which the portal interface displays a login screen. Alternatively or in addition the portal interface may generate a graphical user interface on a display device included in the audio video interface of the expert station . In one example the portal interface may be in communication with the portal application . In a second example the portal interface may be in communication with the custom application . In a third example the portal interface may be a client server application in communication with the SMA .

The device manager in the expert station may be any device process or any combination thereof that communicates with the devices at the expert station . Alternatively or in addition the device manager may communicate with devices in the client station . In one example the device manager may include a physical interface to the devices in the expert station . In a second example the device manager may include a web server that transmits data gathered from the devices in the expert station in response to HTTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol requests. In a third example the device manager may include a TCP IP transmission control protocol Internet Protocol server from which the data gathered from the devices may be transmitted over the network . In a fourth example the device manager may include computer instructions configured to transmit the gathered data over the network .

The expert SMA interface may be any device process or any combination thereof that communicates with the SMA . Other devices or processes in the expert station such as the device manager may communicate with the SMA via the expert SMA interface . Alternatively or in addition other devices or processes in the expert station may communicate directly with the SMA .

During operation of the system for rule based routing of coordinated streams of video and measured data the coordinated routing system matches the expert station with the client station . For example any number of experts may using the portal interface of the corresponding one of the expert stations authenticate with the coordinated routing system . During authentication the portal interface may be in communication with the portal application . In one example the portal application may include a database of authentication information against which credentials received via the portal application are authenticated. In a second example the portal application may communicate with the SMA and or the routing engine to authenticate the credentials against authentication information of the SMA and or the routing engine .

In response to successful authentication the portal application may register the expert station with the SMA . For example the portal application may communicate information about the expert station to the SMA . Examples of the information about the expert station include a network address of the expert station a telephone number of the audio video interface in the expert station an identity of the expert at the expert station devices in the expert station and any other information about the expert station such as known or acquired criteria or credentials associated with the expert. The SMA may store the information about the expert station in the SMA database .

Alternatively or in addition the SMA may request that the routing engine notify the SMA if the routing engine subsequently routes an audio video connection to the audio video interface of the expert station . For example the SMA may register with the routing engine as a call agent associated with the audio video interface in the expert station.

Alternatively or in addition in response to successful authentication the portal application may redirect the portal application to display pages generated by the custom application . For example the custom application may include an application for doctors. After the doctor authenticates the doctor may be redirected to the application for doctors through the portal interface at the expert station .

The custom application may communicate with the SMA to determine whether any sessions are active with the expert station . For example the custom application may invoke APIs in the web services to communicate with the SMA . In one example each one of the experts may indicate via the portal interface that the expert is available to receive client requests. In response the custom application the portal application and or the SMA may indicate to the routing engine that expert station is available to receive client requests.

After the expert station is available to receive client requests the coordinated routing system may route sessions from the client station to the expert station . For example a client at the client station may use the portal interface to authenticate with the coordinated routing system . During authentication the portal interface may be in communication with the portal application . In one example the portal application may include a database of authentication information against which credentials received via the portal interface are authenticated. In a second example the portal application may communicate with the SMA and or the routing engine to authenticate the credentials against authentication information of the SMA and or the routing engine .

In response to successful authentication the portal application may register the client station with the SMA . For example the portal application may communicate information about the client station to the SMA . Examples of the information about the client station include a network address of the client station a telephone number of the audio video interface in the client station an identity of the client at the client station devices in the client station connect information for obtaining the telemetry data generated by the devices client need information and any other information about the client station . Examples of the connect information for obtaining the telemetry data include but are not limited to an IP address of the client station a path portion of a URL universal resource locator to a web server in the device manager in the client station and a port number. SMA may store the information about the client station in the SMA database .

The portal interface may be customized based on a profile of the client access rights assigned to the client or functionality desired by the client. For example the portal interface may display in a language spoken by the client based on a language preference of the client. The portal application upon authentication of the client may redirect the portal interface to the custom application . For example the custom application may include an application for health care patients that the client interacts with via the portal interface .

The custom application may receive from the client station a request to connect with an expert that meets at least one criterion. For example in response to an action taken by the client the portal interface may transmit the request for expert assistance to the custom application over the network . For example the criteria may indicate the expert is to be a Spanish speaking female pediatric doctor who is based in the state of California in United States of America.

The request to connect to an expert may be any type of request. In one example the request may be an HTTP request. In a second example the request may include initiating a phone call to a phone number of the coordinated routing system from the client station . In response to verbal prompts received during the phone call an operator may press keys on a phone keypad in the audio video interface . The keypad selections may be transmitted through the phone call using dual tone multi frequency signaling DTMF and received at the coordinated routing system . The keypad selections may represent answers to questions the criteria being based on the answers provided. In a third example the request may include a first request and a second request. The first request may be for identities of available experts meeting the criteria and the second request may include an identity of one of the available experts selected by the client.

The custom application may transmit the criteria to the SMA and the SMA may generate the routing script suitable for the routing engine . The SMA may generate the routing script differently depending on whether the SMA does the matching or whether the routing engine does the matching. If the routing engine does the matching then the routing script may include the criteria. The routing engine may search the SMA database for an available expert meeting the criteria. If an expert is available then the routing engine may initiate a session between the client station and the matching expert station . When initiating the session the routing engine may establish the audio video connection and the device connection in the session. However if all experts that meet the criteria are busy with other customers or otherwise unavailable the session may be queued waiting for a suitable expert to become available.

Alternatively if the SMA does the matching then the routing script may include identification of the matching expert station . To do the matching the SMA may search the SMA database for an expert matching the criteria. If a matching available expert is available then the SMA may generate the routing script that includes the identity of the matching expert station . In response to receiving the routing script the routing engine may initiate a session between client station and the expert station identified in the routing script . However if all experts that meet the criteria are busy with other customers or otherwise unavailable the session may be queued waiting for a suitable expert to become available.

In one example the routing engine in order to initiate the session may transmit the identity of the expert station to the audio video manager . For example the routing engine may transmit an Internet Protocol address of the expert station to the audio video manager .

The audio video manager may subsequently establish the audio video connection between the client station and the expert station . Accordingly the audio video manager may transmit instructions over the network to at least one of the audio video interfaces and in the client station and the audio video interface in the expert station to establish a connection between the client station and the expert station . In response to receipt of the instructions for example the client station may establish a VoIP connection to the expert station identified in the instructions. For example the client station may establish the VoIP connection by transmitting a SIP session initiation protocol message to a network address of the expert station . Alternatively or in addition the audio video manager may establish a video conference between the client station and the expert station and relay audio and video between the stations.

Once the audio video connection is established between the client station and the expert station the client and the expert may see and or hear each other. Additionally the routing engine may transmit an identity of at least the expert station to the SMA indicating that the audio video connection is established. The routing engine may transmit the identity of the expert station because the SMA previously registered as a call agent for the expert station . Because the SMA received the request to connect from the client station the SMA is in possession of identities of the client station and the expert station .

Once in possession of the identities of the stations at either end of the audio video connection the SMA may create the session in the SMA database . The SMA may associate information about the client station and the expert station which was received during registration with the session in the SMA database . For example the SMA may associate the session with the connect information for obtaining the telemetry data generated by the devices in the client station . Accordingly in one example the SMA may transmit the connect information to the device manager in the expert station . The device manager in the expert station may then establish one or more connections to retrieve the telemetry data from the client station .

Alternatively or in addition the custom application may obtain the connect information from the SMA . The custom application may then establish at least one connection to the client station based on the connection information. The custom application may retrieve the telemetry data from the client station . The custom application may process the telemetry data such that an expert may view and analyze the telemetry data through the portal interface in the expert station. Alternatively or in addition the custom application may process the telemetry data such that the client at the client station may also view the telemetry data through the portal interface in the client station.

The SMA may end the session in response to one or more of the connections terminating. For example the SMA may end the session if the audio video connection closes.

A conference session may include sessions between more than two stations. For example a conference session may include an audio video connection between the client station the expert station and a second expert station. For example the expert at the expert station after communicating with the client at the client station may decide to consult another expert. As a result the conference session may include connections associated with the second expert station. In one example the expert may interact with the portal interface in the expert station to request a connection with an identified expert at the second expert station. The expert may wish to consult with a specialist. In a first example the expert may view a list of available specialists in the portal interface . The custom application may receive the list of available specialists from the SMA . The expert may select one of the available specialists through the portal interface where the selected specialist is associated with the second expert station. In response the custom application may transmit to the SMA a request to include the second expert station in an audio video conference with the first expert station and the client station . In a second example the expert may interact with the portal interface to request a connection with any available expert that meets at least one criterion. In response the custom application may transmit a request to the SMA to include the second expert station in the audio video conference.

Alternatively or in addition the second expert may be able to view the telemetry data or control the devices in the client station at the second expert station in a manner similar to how the first expert may do so. For example the SMA may initiate one or more additional device connections between the client station and the second expert station so that that second expert station may receive the telemetry data. Alternatively or in addition the custom application may already be receiving the telemetry data for presentation to the first expert station . Therefore the custom application may present the telemetry data in the portal interface of the second expert station. In a medical example two doctors each at a respective one of the expert stations may each see the patient as well as the medial data measured at the client station . The two doctors may also confer with each other and view data from devices in either of the two expert stations.

During operation of the system the client station may transmit the request to communicate with an expert matching at least one criterion to the coordinated routing system . In response the coordinated routing system may determine an identity of the expert station matching the request . The coordinated routing system may transmit an instruction to the client station that instructs the client station to open the audio video connection between the client station and the expert station. The instruction may include the network identity of the expert station . In response the client station may open the audio video connection for example by transmitting a SIP invite message to the expert station .

The coordinated routing system may create a database entry corresponding to the session that includes the information about the client station and or the expert station such as identities of each of the stations and . The coordinated routing system may store an indication that the audio video connection is established in the SMA database and associate the indication with the database entry corresponding to the session . At registration the client station may have transmitted to the coordinated routing system the connect information for obtaining the telemetry data generated by the devices in the client station . Therefore the coordinated routing system may now transmit a message to the expert station that includes the connect information.

The expert station sometime during the session may open the device connection to the client station . The expert station may open additional device connections during the session . The expert station may open and close the device connection multiple times during the session .

The coordinated routing system may route any number of streams as a bundle of streams to be routed together during the session . For example the connect information may be transmitted by the client station the expert station or both during registration or at some point thereafter. The connect information may include information related to forming connections that transport all or a portion of the streams. The streams may be bi directional transporting information in either direction between the client station and the expert station . The expert station the client station or any combination thereof may transmit a request to the client station the expert station or the coordinated routing system in order to establish the respective one of the streams. The streams may include audio voice video text hypertext or any other type of data.

When the audio video connection closes the session may be terminated. Accordingly the coordinated routing system may delete database entry corresponding to the session from the SMA database .

In act of the embodiment illustrated in the operation may begin by transmitting from the client station the request to connect to any expert that meets at least one criterion. The at least one criterion and the request in the example illustrated embodiment do not include an identity of a matching expert or an identity of an expert station associated with the matching expert. For example the client station may transmit a request to connect to a loan officer who speaks English and who is located in a particular geographic region.

The coordinated routing system may determine an identity of the expert station matching the request. The coordinated routing system may transmit the instruction to the client station instructing the client station to establish the audio video connection with the expert station .

The operation may continue in act by receiving at the client station the identity of the expert station associated with the matching expert in response to the request to connect. For example the client station may receive a network address of the expert station in the instruction to establish the audio video connection .

In act the operation may continue by communicating an audio video stream over the audio video connection . For example the client station may communicate the audio video stream as part of a video conferencing call between the client station and the expert station .

In one example the expert station may receive from the coordinated routing system the message that includes the connect information for obtaining the telemetry data generated by the devices in the client station . The expert station may open the device connection from the expert station to the client station .

In act the operation may proceed by receiving at the client station telemetry data measured by the device in the client station . For example the device manager may receive an audio signal from a stethoscope.

In act the operation may include transmitting the telemetry data over the device connection to the expert station where the audio video connection and the device connection are included in the session between the client station and the expert station . For example the client station may transmit the audio signals received from stethoscope to the expert station which a doctor may hear through headphones at the expert station . The operation may end for example by closing audio video connection and the device connection .

The system for rule based routing of coordinated streams of video and measured data may have advantages over current remote expert access systems environments. Current remote expert access systems connect two endpoints directly only after a deliberate action of the operator to connect to a specific endpoint. For example the operator may indicate that the system is to connect to expert X or to a specific physical location of the endpoint. Experts may operate independently such as from a respective place of business of the expert in a contact center environment or even in the respective homes of the experts.

The system may provide a new transformative health care industry solution that creates a live face to face visit experience for clinicians and patients. The system may be an integrated communication and collaboration platform. Patients may access clinical services through client stations provided by remotely located health care providers to provide primary specialty pharmacy mental health services or counseling.

Besides providing videoconferencing capabilities between stations the system establishes and maintains sessions that are data rich by virtue of the integrated third party devices and other data sources. Sessions may be established by virtue of data images and sound being routed between the client station and the expert station dynamically based on customizable rules. Sessions may involve multiple endpoints that participate in a multipoint conference session. Data may originate from the client station from a hosted third party application through an invoked web service using the coordinated routing system and or from third party medical devices.

The system may rely on a secure broadband connection such as a private network or a virtual private network from a patient station to a healthcare provider station located at the remote facility. The configuration enables a remote healthcare provider to review physiological data of the patient in real time on a personal computer as well as to converse with the patient and or an attendant at the patient station. The system may provide a vender agnostic plug and play interface with medical devices so the system may be used in a variety of health services such as primary specialty mental health disease management and in a variety of environments such as clinical retail community educational or corporate campuses prisons rural or urban communities and mobile units using satellite or wireless communications.

The system may be implemented as a three tier having an infrastructure layer a services layer and an application layer service oriented network architecture. Thus the system may be implemented as a hosted environment where applications services may be hosted in the cloud. Furthermore end users may use the hosted services following a secure login through the SMA .

Different components provide different functions for implementing the functionality of the various embodiments. The respective logic software or instructions for implementing the processes methods and or techniques discussed above are provided on computer readable storage media or memories or other tangible media such as a cache buffer RAM removable media hard drive other computer readable storage media or any other tangible media or any combination thereof. The tangible media include various types of volatile and nonvolatile storage media. The functions acts or tasks illustrated in the figures or described herein are executed in response to one or more sets of logic or instructions stored in or on computer readable storage media. The functions acts or tasks are independent of the particular type of instructions set storage media processor or processing strategy and may be performed by software hardware integrated circuits firmware micro code and the like operating alone or in combination. Likewise processing strategies may include multiprocessing multitasking parallel processing and the like. In one embodiment the instructions are stored on a removable media device for reading by local or remote systems. In other embodiments the logic or instructions are stored in a remote location for transfer through a computer network or over telephone lines. In yet other embodiments the logic or instructions are stored within a given computer central processing unit CPU graphics processing unit GPU or system. Logic encoded in one or more tangible media for execution is defined as instructions that are executable by the processor and that are provided on the computer readable storage media memories or a combination thereof.

Any of the devices features methods and or techniques described may be mixed and matched to create different systems and methodologies.

While the invention has been described above by reference to various embodiments it should be understood that many changes and modifications can be made without departing from the scope of the invention. It is therefore intended that the foregoing detailed description be regarded as illustrative rather than limiting and that it be understood that it is the following claims including all equivalents that are intended to define the spirit and scope of this invention.

