---

title: Ultrasound system and method for providing Doppler sound
abstract: Embodiments for providing Doppler sounds are disclosed. In one embodiment, provided is an ultrasound system which may include: an ultrasound data acquiring unit configured to transmit ultrasound signals to a target object and receive ultrasound echo signals reflected therefrom, to acquire a plurality of ultrasound data associated with the target object, each of which having a synchronization (Sync) number uniquely assigned thereto; a storing unit to store the plurality of ultrasound data therein; an user input unit configured to allow a user to input a user instruction; and a processing unit coupled to the ultrasound data acquiring unit, the storing unit and the user input unit and configured to form a Doppler mode image having the Sync number based on the plurality of ultrasound data, the processing unit being further configured to extract ultrasound data with a Sync number corresponding to the user instruction from the storing unit, thereby forming the Doppler sound based on the extracted ultrasound data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09026385&OS=09026385&RS=09026385
owner: Samsung Medison Co., Ltd.
number: 09026385
owner_city: Hongcheon-gun, Gangwon-do
owner_country: KR
publication_date: 20101207
---
The present application claims priority from Korean Patent Application No. 10 2009 0123003 filed on Dec. 11 2009 the entire subject matters of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to an ultrasound system and more particularly to an ultrasound system for providing Doppler sound.

Recently an ultrasound system has been extensively used in the medical field due to its non invasive and non destructive nature. Generally the ultrasound system has become an important and popular diagnostic tool due to its wide range of applications. Specifically due to its non invasive and non destructive nature the ultrasound diagnostic system has been extensively used in the medical profession.

In general such ultrasound system provides a Doppler sound together with a Doppler mode image visualizing velocities of moving objects through the use of a Doppler effect the Doppler mode image being formed based on Doppler signals obtained in a Doppler mode.

In the related art there may be a problem in that when output of the Doppler mode image and the Doppler sound are temporally interrupted halfway only a previously outputted Doppler mode image is outputted and the Doppler sound is not outputted. Thus it is required for an ultrasound system which provides a Doppler sound at a selected timed interval as necessary.

Embodiments for providing Doppler sound which corresponds to an area defined on a Doppler mode image are disclosed herein.

In one embodiment provided is an ultrasound system which may include an ultrasound data acquiring unit configured to transmit ultrasound signals to a target object and receive ultrasound echo signals reflected therefrom to acquire a plurality of ultrasound data associated with the target object each of which having a synchronization Sync number uniquely assigned thereto. The ultrasound system may further include a storing unit to store the plurality of ultrasound data therein. The ultrasound system may further include an user input unit configured to allow a user to input a user instruction. The ultrasound system may further include a processing unit coupled to the ultrasound data acquiring unit the storing unit and the user input unit and configured to form a Doppler mode image having the Sync number based on the plurality of ultrasound data the processing unit being further configured to extract ultrasound data with a Sync number corresponding to the user instruction from the storing unit thereby forming the Doppler sound based on the extracted ultrasound data.

In another embodiment provided is a method of providing a Doppler mode image and Doppler sound in an ultrasound system which may include transmitting ultrasound signals to a target object and receiving ultrasound echo signals reflected therefrom thereby acquiring a plurality of ultrasound data associated with the target object each of which having a synchronization Sync number uniquely assigned thereto. The method may further include storing the plurality of ultrasound data in a storage. The method may further include generating the Doppler mode image based on the plurality of ultrasound data. The method may further include allowing a user to input a user instruction. The method may further include extracting ultrasound data with a Sync number corresponding to the user instruction from the storage to thereby form the Doppler sound based on the extracted ultrasound data.

In yet another embodiment provided is a computer readable storage medium storing instructions that when executed by a computer cause the computer to perform the operation of transmitting ultrasound signals to a target object and receiving ultrasound echo signals reflected therefrom thereby acquiring a plurality of ultrasound data associated with the target object each of which having a synchronization Sync number uniquely assigned thereto. The operation may further include storing the plurality of ultrasound data in a storage. The operation may further include generating the Doppler mode image based on the plurality of ultrasound data. The operation may further include allowing a user to input a user instruction. The operation may further include extracting ultrasound data with a Sync number corresponding to the user instruction from the storage to thereby form the Doppler sound based on the extracted ultrasound data.

The Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

A detailed description may be provided with reference to the accompanying drawings. One of ordinary skill in the art may realize that the following description is illustrative only and is not in any way limiting. Other embodiments of the present invention may readily suggest themselves to such skilled persons having the benefit of this disclosure.

As depicted therein the ultrasound system may include an ultrasound data acquiring unit . The ultrasound data acquiring unit may be operable to transmit ultrasound signals to a target object and receive signals i.e. ultrasound echo signals reflected therefrom. The ultrasound data acquiring unit may acquire ultrasound data based on the received ultrasound echo signals. The acquisition of the ultrasound data will be described in detail by referring to .

As shown in the ultrasound data acquiring unit may include a transmit Tx signal generating section . The Tx signal generating section may be operable to generate a plurality of Tx signals in consideration of distances between the transducer elements and focal points. In one embodiment the Tx signals may be used to obtain a frame of the Doppler mode image. The Tx signal generating section may sequentially and repetitively perform generating the Tx signals thereby forming the plurality of Tx signals.

The ultrasound data acquiring unit may include an ultrasound probe . Upon reception of the Tx signals provided from the Tx signal generating section the ultrasound probe may be operable to convert the received Tx signals into ultrasound signals. The ultrasound probe may be further operable to transmit the so converted ultrasound signals to the target object and receive ultrasound echo signals reflected therefrom thereby generating electrical receive Rx signals which are analog signals. The ultrasound probe may sequentially and repetitively perform generating the Rx signals thereby forming the plurality of Rx signals.

The ultrasound data acquiring unit may further include a beam forming section . The beam forming section may be operable to convert the electrical Rx signals provided from the ultrasound probe into digital signals. The beam forming section may be further operable to apply delays to the digital signals in consideration of distances between the transducer elements and focal points thereby outputting digital receive Rx focused signals. The beam forming section may sequentially and repetitively perform converting and focusing for the Rx signals thereby forming the plurality of electrical Rx focused signals.

The ultrasound data acquiring unit may further include an ultrasound data forming section . The ultrasound data forming section may be operable to form ultrasound data based on the Rx focused signals provided from the beam forming section . In one embodiment the ultrasound data may be RF radio Frequency data or IQ In phase Quadrature data. The ultrasound data forming section may sequentially and repetitively perform forming the ultrasound data thereby forming the plurality of ultrasound data.

The ultrasound data acquiring unit may further include a synchronization Sync number setting section . The Sync number setting section may be operable to form Sync numbers based on the ultrasound data provided from the ultrasound data forming section and assign the Sync numbers to respective ultrasound data. The Sync number setting section may sequentially and repetitively perform forming and assigning the Sync numbers thereby forming the plurality of ultrasound data thereby assigning different Sync numbers to a plurality of ultrasound data.

Referring back to an illustrative embodiment of the ultrasound system may further include a storing unit . The storing unit may store the plurality of ultrasound data provided from the ultrasound data acquiring unit each having a Sync number uniquely assigned thereto. The storing unit may further store a Doppler mode image a Doppler sound and a sound graph. Below a detailed description will be made as to the sound graph.

The ultrasound system may further include a user input unit . The user input unit may allow a user to input a user instruction. In one embodiment as shown in the user instruction may include a first information for setting a region hereinafter referred to as a region of interest whose the Doppler sound is to be formed on a Doppler mode image . In a dotted phantom line represents a position of the Doppler sound currently being outputted. Also in the Sync number may or may not be displayed. In one embodiment the user instruction may further include a second information for adjusting a sound field of the Doppler sound. The user input unit may include at least one of a control panel a mouse a keyboard a touch screen and the like.

The ultrasound system may further include a processing unit which is coupled to the ultrasound data acquiring unit the storing unit and the user input unit . The processing unit may be operable to form a Doppler mode image based on the ultrasound data provided from the ultrasound data acquiring unit . The processing unit may be operable to extract the ultrasound data which corresponds to the first information provided from the user input unit from the storing unit to thereby form the Doppler sound based on the extracted ultrasound data. The processing unit may be implemented by for example CPU Central Processing Unit GPU Graphic Processing Unit or the like. The operation of the processing unit will be described in detail by referring to .

As shown in the processing unit may include a first data processing section . The first data processing section may be operable to form the Doppler mode image based on the plurality of ultrasound data provided from the ultrasound data acquiring unit as shown in . Wherein the Doppler mode image may include a Sync number. The Doppler mode image may be stored in the storing unit . The first data processing section may be further operable to form the Doppler sound based on the plurality of ultrasound data provided from the ultrasound data acquiring unit .

The processing unit may further include a setting section . The setting section may be operable to set the region to interest on the Doppler mode image responsive to the first information provided from the user input unit as shown in .

The processing unit may further include an extracting section . The extracting section may be operable to detect a Sync number assigned to the Doppler mode image corresponding to the region to interest and scan the storing unit thereby extracting ultrasound data corresponding to the detected Sync number.

The processing unit may further include a second data processing section . The second data processing section may be operable to form a Doppler sound based on the ultrasound data extracted at the extracting section . The Doppler sound may be stored in the storing unit . The second data processing section may be further operable to set on the Doppler mode image a display mark depicted by a dotted phantom line in representing a position at which the Doppler sound is currently being outputted. The second data processing section may be further operable to form a sound graph corresponding to the Doppler sound based on the extracted ultrasound data as shown in . The sound graph may be stored in the storing unit .

The processing unit may further include a Doppler sound processing section . As shown in the Doppler sound processing section may be operable to form an open application programming interface simply referred to as open API for adjusting a sound field of the Doppler sound. The Doppler sound processing section may be further operable to adjust the sound field of the Doppler sound provided from the second data processing section responsive to the second information provided from the user input unit . The second information may be stored in the storing unit as a preset parameter.

Referring back to the output unit may be operable to output the Doppler mode image and the Doppler sound which are formed in the processing unit . In one embodiment the output unit may further include an image output section not shown for outputting the Doppler mode image and a sound output section not shown for outputting the Doppler sound.

Therefore according to the illustrative embodiments of the present disclosure it is possible to again output a previously outputted Doppler mode image and further allow a reverse play function or the like at a timed interval selected by user thereby enabling the user to minutely diagnose Doppler sounds.

Although embodiments have been described with reference to a number of illustrative embodiments thereof it should be understood that numerous other modifications and embodiments can be devised by those skilled in the art that will fall within the spirit and scope of the principles of this disclosure. More particularly numerous variations and modifications are possible in the component parts and or arrangements of the subject combination arrangement within the scope of the disclosure the drawings and the appended claims. In addition to variations and modifications in the component parts and or arrangements alternative uses will also be apparent to those skilled in the art.

