---

title: Indentifying service dependencies in a cloud deployment
abstract: Embodiments relate to systems and methods for identifying service dependencies in a cloud deployment. In particular, a deployment module can receive usage data from a host cloud comprising data related to end user operation of a set of services in the host cloud as well as service dependencies among the set of services. In embodiments, the deployment module can determine candidate target clouds in which to deploy the set of services. Further, in embodiments, the deployment module can determine whether the candidate target clouds have a capacity to support the set of services, as well as whether services within the candidate target clouds are compatible based on the service dependencies.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08904005&OS=08904005&RS=08904005
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 08904005
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101123
---
The present teachings relate to systems and methods for identifying service dependencies in a cloud deployment and more particularly to platforms and techniques for ensuring a capacity of one or more target clouds to deploy a set of services while preserving any necessary dependencies.

Cloud computing environments utilize shared resources software and information that can be provided for use by end users. For example a service level agreement SLA can be entered into between a vendor such as an independent software vendor ISV and a cloud network provider whereby the cloud network provider agrees to commit an amount of resources associated with virtual machines in the cloud network for use by end users during operation of software products and applications of the vendor. In return the cloud network provider can charge the vendor a specified rate in proportion to the amount of committed resources. The cloud network provider provides or maintains an amount of resources in the cloud network such as server uptime persistent storage software application instantiation network performance cloud storage support response time and other elements.

The end users can subscribe to services offered by the cloud provider or others and the end users can use the cloud resources when operating or otherwise using the services. A set of services deployed in one or more clouds can have dependencies whereby for example an initialization of one service depends on an output from another service. In a cloud migration or deployment it can be the case that a target cloud does not have the capacity to successfully operate one or more desired services. Further it can be the case that the resources and services of target cloud do not have the compatibility to successfully operate the one or more desired services based on the dependencies or inter dependencies of the services. For example the resources and services of the target cloud may not be able to support a language that is required by the one or more desired services.

Therefore it may be desirable to provide systems and methods for identifying service dependencies in a cloud deployment. In particular it may be desirable to ensure a capacity and compatibility of one or more target clouds with a set of services and any necessary dependencies.

Embodiments of the present teachings relate to systems and methods for identifying service dependencies in a cloud deployment. In particular embodiments relate to ensuring a capability of one or more target clouds to deploy a set of services while preserving any necessary dependencies. The target cloud s can have a specified amount of resources to be utilized by for example end users. For example the resources of the target cloud s can be deployed as a Software as a Service SaaS . An administrator of a host cloud can desire to migrate or re deploy a set of services from the host cloud to the target cloud s . In embodiments the set of services can comprise dependencies whereby the target cloud s can be required to have necessary resources to support the set of services.

According to embodiments a dependency module or other logic can receive a usage history associated with a host cloud where the usage history can indicate a set of services subscribed to by a user as well as a service dependency within the set of services. The dependency module can detect a target cloud s that is a candidate in which to deploy the set of services. According to embodiments the dependency module can determine whether the target cloud s comprises a capacity to deploy the set of services as well as whether the resources of the target cloud s are compatible with the service dependency. In other embodiments the set of services can be deployed in the target cloud s .

In embodiments the dependency module can be configured to provide relevant data or information to an administrator of a cloud so that the administrator can determine an implementation plan for a set of services. For example the administrator may wish to use the usage history or other data to examine or generate a business model based on an hourly rate consumption rate or other metrics and determine a potential candidate cloud based on any relevant business models.

Embodiments as described herein can be implemented in or supported by a cloud network architecture. As used herein a cloud can refer to a cloud based network comprising a collection of resources that can be invoked to instantiate a virtual machine process or other resource for a limited or defined duration. As used herein an end user can refer to a person customer subscriber corporation organization or other entity accessing files and or devices storing the files in the cloud. In embodiments the end user can operate or manage computer software or hardware that can access files and or devices storing the files in the cloud based network. Further as used herein an administrator of a cloud can refer to a person owner corporation organization or other entity having authoritative power to initialize oversee or otherwise manage the operation of a cloud.

As used herein the resources of a cloud can refer to software or hardware such as for example applications programs servers device drivers storage such as hard drives virtual memory databases random access memory RAM and other memory processors multimedia cards and the like in the cloud. The resources can be accessed by users or by software or applications independent from or associated with resources of the cloud. In embodiments vendors such as ISVs can supply software resources for use with other resources in a cloud. Resources of the cloud can further refer to any communications resources such as ports or channels provided to a virtual machine or other machine or process in the cloud. Resources can likewise include services such as Web based services deployed in the cloud for example security or identity management services and or other resources.

As used herein a service can be a general term that can refer to any service capable of being executed in or otherwise supported by a cloud. For example a service can be any type of identity management service firewall or other security service messaging service data storage or backup service file maintenance service or any other service that can be made available to an end user in the cloud environment. It should be appreciated that other services associated with or otherwise supported by a cloud are envisioned. Further as used herein a service dependency can be a general term that can refer to any type of dependency in between or among one or more services. For example a service dependency can specify that an output from one service must be used as an input for another service. For further example a service dependency can specify that one or more services must use a specified data format in operating the one or more services. It should be appreciated that other service dependencies in between or among services are envisioned.

In embodiments the entire set of resource servers or other hardware or software resources used to support the cloud along with its instantiated virtual machines is managed by a cloud management system . The cloud management system can comprise a dedicated or centralized server and or other software hardware and network tools that communicate via network such as the Internet or other public or private network with all sets of resource servers to manage the cloud and its operation. To instantiate a new set of virtual machines a user can transmit an instantiation request to the cloud management system for the particular type of virtual machine that the user desires to invoke for its intended application. A user can for instance make a request to instantiate a set of virtual machines configured for email messaging or other applications from the cloud . The request can be received and processed by the cloud management system which identifies the type of virtual machine process or other resource being requested. The cloud management system can then identify the collection of resources necessary to instantiate that machine or resource. In embodiments the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources can for example comprise virtual transaction servers used to support Web storefronts or other transaction sites.

In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify a variety of parameters defining the operation of the set of virtual machines to be invoked. The instantiation request for example can specify a defined period of time for which the instantiated machine or process is needed. The period of time can be for example an hour a day or other increment of time. In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify the instantiation of a set of virtual machines or processes on a task basis rather than for a predetermined amount of time. For instance a user could request resources until a software update is completed. The user s instantiation request can specify other parameters that define the configuration and operation of the set of virtual machines or other instantiated resources. For example the request can specify an amount of processing power or input output I O throughput the user desires to be available to each instance of the virtual machine or other resource. In embodiments the requesting user can for instance specify a service level agreement SLA acceptable for their purposes. Other parameters and settings can be used. One skilled in the art will realize that the user s request can likewise include combinations of the foregoing exemplary parameters and others.

When the request to instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources has been received and the necessary resources to build that machine or resource have been identified the cloud management system can communicate with one or more of the set of resource servers to locate resources to supply the required components. The cloud management system can select providers from the diverse set of resource servers to assemble the various components needed to build the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. It may be noted that in some embodiments permanent storage such as hard disk arrays may not be included or located within the set of resource servers available to the cloud management system since the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources may be intended to operate on a purely transient or temporary basis. In embodiments other hardware software or other resources not strictly located or hosted in the cloud can be leveraged as needed. For example other software services that are provided outside of the cloud and hosted by third parties can be invoked by in cloud virtual machines. For further example other non cloud hardware and or storage services can be utilized as an extension to the cloud either on an on demand or subscribed or decided basis.

With the resource requirements identified the cloud management system can extract and build the set of virtual machines or other resources on a dynamic or on demand basis. For example one set of resource servers may respond to an instantiation request for a given quantity of processor cycles with an offer to deliver that computational power immediately and guaranteed for the next hour. A further set of resource servers can offer to immediately supply communication bandwidth for example on a guaranteed minimum or best efforts basis. In other embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources can be built on a batch basis or at a particular future time. For example a set of resource servers may respond to a request for instantiation at a programmed time with an offer to deliver the specified quantity of processor cycles within a specific amount of time such as the next 12 hours.

The cloud management system can select groups of servers in the set of resource servers that match or best match the instantiation request for each component needed to build the virtual machine or other resource. The cloud management system can then coordinate the integration of the completed group of servers from the set of resource servers to build and launch the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. The cloud management system can track the combined group of servers selected from the set of resource servers or other distributed resources that are dynamically or temporarily combined to produce and manage the requested virtual machine population or other resources.

In embodiments the cloud management system can generate a resource aggregation table that identifies the various sets of resource servers that will be used to supply the components of the virtual machine or process. The sets of resource servers can be identified by unique identifiers such as for instance Internet protocol IP addresses or other addresses. The cloud management system can register the finalized group of servers in the set of resource servers contributing to an instantiated machine or process.

The cloud management system can then set up and launch the initiation process for the virtual machines processes or other resources to be delivered from the cloud. The cloud management system can for instance transmit an instantiation command or instruction to the registered group of servers in the set of resource servers . The cloud management system can receive a confirmation message back from each participating server in the set of resource servers indicating a status regarding the provisioning of their respective resources. Various sets of resource servers may confirm for example the availability of a dedicated amount of processor cycles amounts of electronic memory communications bandwidth or applications or other software prepared to be served.

As shown for example in the cloud management system can then instantiate one or more than one set of virtual machines or other processes based on the resources supplied by the registered set of resource servers shown in . In embodiments the cloud management system can instantiate a given number for example 10 500 1000 or other numbers of virtual machines to be made available to users on a network such as the Internet or other public or private network. Each virtual machine can be assigned an instantiated machine ID that can be stored in the resource aggregation table or other record or image of the instantiated population. Additionally the cloud management system can store the duration of each virtual machine and the collection of resources utilized by the complete set of instantiated virtual machines .

In embodiments the cloud management system can further store track and manage a user s identity and associated set of rights or entitlements to software hardware and other resources. Each user that populates a set of virtual machines in the cloud can have specific rights and resources assigned and made available to them. The cloud management system can track and configure specific actions that a user can perform such as provision a set of virtual machines with software applications or other resources configure a set of virtual machines to desired specifications submit jobs to the set of virtual machines or other host manage other users of the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources and other privileges or actions. The cloud management system can further generate records of the usage of instantiated virtual machines to permit tracking billing and auditing of the services consumed by the user. In embodiments the cloud management system can for example meter the usage and or duration of the set of instantiated virtual machines to generate subscription billing records for a user that has launched those machines. Other billing or value arrangements are possible.

The cloud management system can configure each virtual machine to be made available to users of the network via a browser interface or other interface or mechanism. Each instantiated virtual machine can communicate with the cloud management system and the underlying registered set of resource servers via a standard Web application programming interface API or via other calls or interfaces. The set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with each other as well as other sites servers locations and resources available via the Internet or other public or private networks whether within a given cloud or between clouds.

It may be noted that while a browser interface or other front end can be used to view and operate the set of instantiated virtual machines from a client or terminal the processing memory communications storage and other hardware as well as software resources required to be combined to build the virtual machines or other resources are all hosted remotely in the cloud . In embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources may not depend on or require the user s own on premise hardware or other resources. In embodiments a user can therefore request and instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources on a purely off premise basis for instance to build and launch a virtual storefront or other application.

Because the cloud management system in one regard specifies builds operates and manages the set of instantiated virtual machines on a logical level the user can request and receive different sets of virtual machines and other resources on a real time or near real time basis without a need to specify or install any particular hardware. The user s set of instantiated machines processes or other resources can be scaled up or down immediately or within a short period of time on an on demand basis if desired. In embodiments the various sets of resource servers that are accessed by the cloud management system to support a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes can change or be substituted over time. The type and operating characteristics of the set of instantiated virtual machines can nevertheless remain constant or almost constant since instances are assembled from abstracted resources that can be selected and maintained from diverse sources based on uniform specifications.

In terms of network management of the set of virtual machines that have been successfully configured and instantiated the cloud management system can perform various network management tasks including security maintenance and metering for billing or subscription purposes. The cloud management system of a given cloud can for example install or terminate applications or appliances on individual machines. The cloud management system can monitor operating virtual machines to detect any virus or other rogue process on individual machines and for instance terminate the infected application or virtual machine. The cloud management system can likewise manage an entire set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources on a collective basis for instance to push or deliver a software upgrade to all active virtual machines. Other management processes are possible.

In embodiments more than one set of virtual machines can be instantiated in a given cloud at the same overlapping or successive times. The cloud management system can in such implementations build launch and manage multiple sets of virtual machines based on the same or different underlying set of resource servers with populations of different instantiated virtual machines such as may be requested by different users. The cloud management system can institute and enforce security protocols in a cloud hosting multiple sets of virtual machines. Each of the individual sets of virtual machines can be hosted in a respective partition or sub cloud of the resources of the main cloud . The cloud management system of a cloud can for example deploy services specific to isolated or defined sub clouds or isolate individual workloads processes within the cloud to a specific sub cloud. The subdivision of the cloud into distinct transient sub clouds or other sub components which have assured security and isolation features can assist in establishing a multiple user or multi tenant cloud arrangement. In a multiple user scenario each of the multiple users can use the cloud platform as a common utility while retaining the assurance that their information is secure from other users of the overall cloud system. In further embodiments sub clouds can nevertheless be configured to share resources if desired.

In embodiments and as also shown in the set of instantiated virtual machines generated in a first cloud can also interact with a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes generated in a second third or further cloud . Further the cloud management system of the first cloud can interface with the cloud management system of the second cloud to coordinate those domains and operate the clouds and or virtual machines or processes on a combined basis. The cloud management system of a given cloud can track and manage individual virtual machines or other resources instantiated in that cloud as well as the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources in other clouds.

Further it should be appreciated that the dependency module can be configured to interface with additional existing host clouds or target clouds not shown in figures and associated resources such as virtual machines of the additional host clouds or target clouds . Further still it should be clear that although depicts the dependency module in association with the cloud management system of the target cloud in certain embodiments the dependency module can instead be associated with the host cloud as well as with multiple host clouds . In such embodiments the dependency module can receive information about the capability compatibility and other service data of the target cloud and analyze this data with respect to at least subscription data of local users for potential migration of the local users to the target cloud .

In embodiments the administrator can be any person owner corporation organization or other entity having authoritative power to initialize oversee or otherwise manage the operation of the target cloud . In embodiments the administrator can manage the delivery or provisioning of software applications or other software hardware or other products or services such as products and services of one or more ISVs not shown in figures to end users accessing the target cloud . In embodiments the end users can access the set of instantiated virtual machines located in the target cloud . It should be appreciated that the administrator can enter into one or more service agreements with vendors or other entities to provide resources to end users in one or multiple clouds and or across multiple products and or product lines. It should further be appreciated that the administrator can oversee multiple target or candidate clouds and can communicate and contact other respective administrators of the multiple target or candidate clouds.

The dependency module can receive the subscription data from the host cloud via the network . In embodiments the subscription data can comprise respective end user data regarding utilization of subscribed services within the host cloud along with dependency information for the utilization. In embodiments the subscription data can comprise any captured hardware storage software and other resource consumption information and patterns for users of the host cloud on an individual and or group basis. In embodiments the subscription data can comprise any data relating to the operation of identity management services firewall or other security services messaging services data storage services file maintenance services or other services made available to the end users in the host cloud . For example the subscription data can detail an amount of data transferred by users over networks associated with the host cloud . For further example the subscription data can comprise messaging histories of the users of the host cloud .

In embodiments the dependency module can statically or dynamically analyze program code and or executable files associated with the host cloud to determine information related to the services. In further embodiments the dependency module can statically or dynamically analyze any meta data or services available specifically to applications in the host cloud to determine information related to the services. It should be appreciated that other techniques used to determine services of the host cloud are envisioned.

In embodiments the dependency information of the subscription data can detail any dependencies among the subscribed services within the host cloud . For example the dependency information can indicate that one service depends on an output or other usage of another service. For further example the dependency information can indicate that a security service depends on an identity management service so that different levels of access privileges to data may depend on the authenticated identity of a user or users. In particular the security service can require that the user be authenticated before allowing the user to access the data stored by the security service. Further for example the dependency information can specify a data format compatibility requirement among the subscribed services. Still further for example the dependency information can indicate that the services require resources that can support the English language. It should be appreciated that any dependency information among a set of subscribed services is envisioned.

In some embodiments the dependency module can simulate model or otherwise analyze the subscription data with respect to resources within the target cloud and other clouds not shown in figures such as on the set of instantiated virtual machines . In other embodiments the dependency module can determine the capacity within the target cloud and other clouds to initialize execute or otherwise support any of the services in subscription data . For example the dependency module can detect that the subscription data comprises data related to a messaging service and can determine that resources in the target cloud have an infrastructure in place to support the messaging service.

In embodiments the dependency module can determine that the target cloud or other clouds have an ability to support a type of service but may or may have not a capacity to support the service with a similar amount of processing power network bandwidth end users or other metrics as indicated in the subscription data . For example the subscription data can specify that on average 2 000 end users access a firewall service every day but the dependency module can determine that the resources of the target cloud can only support on average 1 000 end users accessing a similar firewall service every day. For further example the subscription data can specify that on average end users utilize 100 GB of storage per month in operating a data storage service and the dependency module can determine that the resources of the target cloud can support on average end users utilizing 150 GB of storage per month in operating a similar firewall service.

In other embodiments the dependency module can determine a service capacity spread out over multiple clouds. For example if the subscription data indicates both a messaging service and a data storage service subscribed to by end users the dependency module can locate other clouds in addition to the target cloud that in combination have a capacity to support both the messaging and data storage services.

In embodiments the capacity analysis can yield a determination as to whether the target cloud and or other clouds offer resources sufficient to support the services as specified in the subscription data . It should be appreciated that in other embodiments dependency module can use other methods to analyze the subscription data with respect to the feasibility and capacity of hosting a similar quantity and type of services on the target cloud and other clouds.

In embodiments the dependency module can determine simulate model or otherwise analyze whether resources of the target cloud and or other clouds are compatible with the dependency information of the subscription data . In embodiments this determination can be made based on the target cloud and or the other clouds having the necessary capacity to deploy the services as indicated in the subscription data . In other embodiments the compatibility can be based on the services all located within one cloud or spread out over multiple clouds for example the target cloud and at least one other cloud.

For example if the target cloud has the capacity to deploy a messaging service and another cloud has the capacity to deploy a firewall service the dependency module can determine whether the two clouds operating the respective services and or the respective services themselves are compatible. For example the two clouds may not be compatible if one cloud supports a different data encryption policy than the other cloud. For further example if the target cloud has the capacity to deploy both an identity management service and a security service and further if operation of the security service depends on a successful identity verification from the identity management service the dependency module can determine whether the respective services can be deployed in the target cloud based on the dependency requirement. It should be appreciated that the dependency module can determine compatibility among any service and among any combinations of a single cloud or multiple clouds.

As an output the capacity and compatibility analyses can yield a determination as to whether the target cloud and or other clouds can support a deployment of the services identified in the subscription data . For example the capacity and compatibility analyses can indicate that the target cloud and or other clouds have a capacity to support the services but cannot support the compatibility among any dependencies of the services in which case the services cannot be deployed in the target cloud and or other clouds. For further example the capacity and compatibility analyses can indicate that the target cloud and or other clouds have both a capacity to support the services as well as a compatibility to support the dependencies among the services in which case the services can be deployed in the target cloud and or other clouds.

In embodiments the dependency module can deploy the services in the appropriate target cloud and or other clouds based on the support determination. In embodiments an agreement such as an SLA can be entered into among one or more respective cloud providers one or more vendors and or one or more end users. It should be appreciated that the services can be deployed on any resources of any cloud in any combination.

In embodiments the dependency module can notify the administrator of the capability and compatibility of deploying the services in the target cloud and or other clouds. In embodiments the administrator can be notified of any of the results of the analyses performed by dependency module in any way and via any data communication. Further in embodiments the dependency module can generate or provide a deployment recommendation or offer to an administrator owner or other user associated with the host cloud or other clouds. Further in embodiments the offer can be directed to multiple administrators or entities associated with multiple clouds having the capability and compatibility to deploy the set of services. For example if resources in exemplary clouds A and B can support a deployment of the services indicated in the subscription data and already deployed on another cloud C then one or more administrators of clouds A and B can be contacted in an effort to redeploy the services on clouds A and B. It should be appreciated that the administrator or other entity can contact an administrator or a user associated with any existing clouds in any way with any type of information or offer.

In embodiments each of the target clouds and can have the capacity to support one or more services. For example as shown in target cloud A has the capacity to support SVC SVC and SVC target cloud B has the capacity to support SVC and SVC and target cloud C has the capacity to support SVC and SVC . The dependency module can determine which target cloud or combination of target clouds have the capacity to support the services of the host cloud . For example target cloud A in combination with target cloud C has the capacity to support each of SVC SVC SVC and SVC . For further example target cloud A in combination with target cloud B does not have the capacity to support each of SVC SVC SVC and SVC because neither target cloud A nor target cloud B has the capacity to support SVC .

In embodiments the dependency module can examine the dependency information of the subscription data from the host cloud in combination with the respective capacities of the target clouds and to determine which target cloud or combinations of target clouds have the compatibility to support a deployment of the services of the host cloud . For example the dependency module can determine that even though target cloud A and target cloud C have the capacity to support each of the services of the host cloud the data formats used by the services of target cloud A and target cloud C are not compatible and therefore the combination of target cloud A and target cloud C is unable to support the services of the host cloud .

For further example the dependency module can determine that even though target cloud B and target cloud C have the capacity to support each of the services of the host cloud SVC of target cloud B is unable to communicate with SVC of target cloud C which can be required by the dependency information and therefore the combination of target cloud B and target cloud C is unable to support the services of the host cloud . It should be appreciated that the dependency module or other logic can employ any calculations simulations or models to examine capacity and compatibility issues in between or among any of the target clouds and .

Processor can also communicate with computer readable storage medium and the optimization module to execute control logic identify usage histories for producing optimized cloud utilization in the cloud as described herein and control the operation of virtual machines and other resources in cloud . Other configurations of cloud management system associated network connections and other hardware and software resources are possible.

In a set of services subscribed to by a user in the first cloud can be detected. In embodiments the set of services can comprise any service used by the user within the first cloud such as for example identity management services firewall or other security services messaging services data storage services file management services or other services made available to the user in the first cloud. In at least one service dependency within the set of services can be determined. In embodiments the at least one service dependency can indicate that one service depends on an output or other usage of another service. In other embodiments the at least one service dependency can indicate a security or format dependency between or among services or other types of dependencies as discussed herein.

In at least one other cloud that is a candidate in which to deploy the set of services can be detected. In embodiments the at least one other cloud can be any existing cloud detected over any network in any way. In it can determined whether the at least one other cloud comprises a capacity to deploy the set of services. In embodiments the capacity can refer to an availability on the at least one other cloud of each of the services in the set of services. In other embodiments the capacity can refer to the necessary resources on the at least other cloud to execute facilitate operate or otherwise support each of the services in the set of services. In further embodiments the availability and or necessary resources can be spread out over multiple clouds.

In it can be determined whether the resources of the at least one other cloud are compatible with the at least one service dependency. In embodiments the compatibility can refer a security format or any other compatibility of the resources on the at least one other cloud to deploy the set of services based on the at least one service dependency. In the set of services in the at least one other cloud can be deployed. In embodiments the resources in the at least one other cloud can be configured to allow end users to use the deployed services via the at least one other cloud. In embodiments a deployment recommendation or offer to employ use of the resources of the at least one other cloud can be provided to an administrator or entity associated with the at least one other cloud. In processing can end.

The foregoing description is illustrative and variations in configuration and implementation may occur to persons skilled in the art. For example while embodiments have been described which operate using one dependency module and associated cloud management system in embodiments one or more of dependency module and associated cloud management system and or other servers data stores and or other logic or resources can be used. Other resources described as singular or integrated can in embodiments be plural or distributed and resources described as multiple or distributed can in embodiments be combined. The scope of the present teachings is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims.

