---

title: Systems and methods for generating customized settings utilizing a social network of personal profiles
abstract: A system for providing a recommended customized profile to a subject member of a social network for use in operating a subject customizable apparatus is described. The system includes a social network database storing profiles of members of the social network corresponding to multiple customizable apparatus including the subject customizable apparatus. The system also includes a central social network server having a processor and a tangible, non-transitory computer-readable medium storing instructions that, when executed by the processor, cause the processor to generate the recommended customized profile, for use by the subject member in operation of the subject customizable apparatus, based on at least one matching profile of other members in the social network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08515970&OS=08515970&RS=08515970
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 08515970
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101109
---
The present disclosure relates generally to systems and methods for generating customized settings and more particularly to systems and methods for generating customized settings for an adjustable apparatus utilizing a social network of personal profiles.

With advancements in technology individuals are able to personalize a multitude of personal devices. Regarding smart phones for example users can program their phone to have specified ringtones voicemail features and visual presentations.

As another example of personalization modern automobiles have a wide variety of features that can be personalized to the user. For instance a driver can establish preferred seat position settings which can be effectuated by the press of a seat settings button usually found on an outside of the seat cushion. Some vehicles further allow users to establish two seat position settings such as a setting for a first person commonly driving the vehicle and one for a second person who also drives the vehicle.

The present disclosure relates to a system for providing a recommended customized profile to a subject member of a social network for use in operating a subject customizable apparatus. The system includes a social network database storing profiles of members of the social network corresponding to multiple customizable apparatus including the subject customizable apparatus. The system also includes a central social network server having a processor and a tangible non transitory computer readable medium storing instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to generate the recommended customized profile for use by the subject member in operation of the subject customizable apparatus based on at least one matching profile of other members in the social network.

In another aspect the present disclosure relates to a customizable apparatus for use by a subject member of a social network. The apparatus includes at least one customizable feature a processor operatively connected to the customizable feature for controlling a setting of the customizable feature and a tangible non transitory computer readable medium. The medium stores instructions that when executed by the processor cause the processor to perform steps including determine that a setting is not available for the customizable features in connection with the subject member and generate a request for a recommended customized profile for the subject member. The steps also include transmitting the request to a social network server receiving the requested recommended customized profile and implementing the recommended customized profile for the at least one customizable features.

In yet another aspect the present disclosure relates to a computer implemented method for providing a recommended customized profile to a subject member of a social network for use by the subject member in operating a subject customizable apparatus. The method includes a processor in executing computer readable instructions stored on a tangible non transitory computer readable medium generating the recommended customized profile for use by the subject member in operation of the subject customizable apparatus based on at least one matching profile of other members in the social network.

As required detailed embodiments of the present disclosure are disclosed herein. The disclosed embodiments are merely examples that may be embodied in various and alternative forms and combinations thereof. As used herein for example exemplary and similar terms refer expansively to embodiments that serve as an illustration specimen model or pattern. The figures are not necessarily to scale and some features may be exaggerated or minimized such as to show details of particular components. In some instances well known components systems materials or methods have not been described in detail in order to avoid obscuring the present disclosure. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present disclosure.

While the description includes a general context of computer executable instructions the present disclosure can also be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software. The term application or variants thereof is used expansively herein to include routines program modules programs components data structures algorithms and the like. Applications can be implemented on various system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor systems minicomputers mainframe computers personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based programmable consumer electronics combinations thereof and the like.

In various embodiments the present disclosure relates to systems generating customized profiles for a member of a social network based on matching profiles in the social network. In some embodiments a central server stores the profiles of social network members and algorithms for generating a recommended customized profile in response to a request for the same. In some embodiments the customized settings are generated based on similarities between one or more profile characteristics of the requesting member and characteristics of other network members.

Turning now to the figures and more particularly to the first figure shows an exemplary system for generating and delivering customized settings to an adjustable or customizable apparatus used by a member of a social network. The system includes a centralized social network social network CSN server configured to generate and deliver the customized settings.

The system also includes a social network data store or database storing profile information corresponding to members of the social network. In operation the CSN server processes member profiles obtained from the database for generating the customized settings as described in detail below. The SN database may be positioned with respect to the CSN server in any of a variety of ways including any one or more of 1 the SN database or portions thereof being maintained in the CSN server or portions thereof 2 the SN database or portions thereof being separate from but closely co located e.g. same building room with the CSN server or portions thereof and 3 the SN database or portions thereof being maintained remote to the CSN server or portions thereof.

The customizable apparatus may be any of a wide variety of customizable apparatus used by the social network member. By way of example the customizable apparatus is described as a transportation vehicle and particularly as an automobile. An exemplary customizable device is shown in greater detail in .

Exemplary customizable settings for automobiles relate to seat positions seat temperatures heating ventilating and air conditioning HVAC a vehicle component temperature setting e.g. seat base cushion temperature window defrost settings etc. mirror window or camera settings navigation related features radio settings steering wheel position and voice recognition applications. As another example for automotive applications or otherwise customizable features could include media settings such as channel settings on a radio.

The customizable apparatus in some embodiments is configured to 1 authenticate the social network member to the apparatus such as by radio frequency identification RFID authentication and or CSN Server 2 request a customized setting from the CSN server 3 receive a customized setting from the CSN server and 4 implement the customized setting.

In some embodiments the customizable apparatus is configured to generate the customized setting based on social network data stored on the apparatus. The social network data could include for instance a profile of the particular social network member and profiles of other members of the social network the profiles including at least one personalized setting for the corresponding members.

With continued reference to the system in some embodiments further includes a mobile communication device such as a smart phone dedicated navigation device or electronic key fob. In some embodiments at least one of the customizable apparatus and the mobile communication device are configured to communicate with the CSN server by way of a data network . The data network may include any one or more of various networks such as the Internet.

In some embodiments at least one of the customizable apparatus and the mobile communication device communicates with the data network by way of a cellular communications network including a radio access network e.g. base station NodeN or eNodeB . The cellular network is configured to communicate wirelessly with the customizable apparatus and the mobile communication device . The cellular network communicates with the data network wirelessly and or by wire line and via standard cellular system infrastructure such as a mobile switching centers.

Exemplary telecommunications standards include Global System for Mobile communications GSM and a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS . It should be understood however alternatively or additionally the systems devices methods and computer program products may be implemented in wireless networks that use any existing developing or yet to be developed telecommunications technologies. Some examples of other suitable telecommunications technologies include but are not limited to networks utilizing Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Wideband Code Division Multiple Access WCDMA CDMA2000 Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM Long Term Evolution LTE and various other 2G 2.5G 3G 4G and greater generation technologies. Examples of suitable data bearers include but are not limited to General Packet Radio Service GPRS Enhanced Data rates for Global Evolution EDGE the High Speed Packet Access HSPA protocol family such as High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA Enhanced Uplink EUL or otherwise termed High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA Evolved HSPA HSPA and various other current and future data bearers.

In some embodiments the customizable apparatus and the mobile communication device are configured to communicate with the data network by way of at least one of a satellite system and other wireless transceiver s . Exemplary other wireless transceivers include wireless access points such as BLUETOOTH WI FI or similar technologies mobile wireless transceivers such as transceivers in another automobile i.e. vehicle to vehicle VV communication vehicle to road side infrastructure VI communication or vehicle to any wireless transceiver VX communication . These alternate communication paths such as via another transceiver can be instrumental for example in scenarios in which coverage of one or more primary paths of communication e.g. cellular communications are for one reason or another not reliably available at the time.

In some implementations at least one of the satellite system and the other wireless transceiver s communicates with the data network by way of the cellular communications network .

Like the customizable apparatus the mobile communication device is in some embodiments configured to perform one or more functions of the present disclosure such as by storing and processing a local program component of the algorithm of the present disclosure. Exemplary functions of the mobile communication device include i registering the social network member to the customizable apparatus such as by RFID authentication and or to the CSN Server ii requesting a customized setting such as of the CSN server iii receiving a customized setting such as from the CSN server and iv implementing or initiating implementation of the customized setting.

In some embodiments the customizable apparatus and or the mobile communication device are configured to perform any of the steps of the disclosure without interaction with a remote server. These embodiments are especially useful when for example access to long range communications directly and indirectly e.g. via a local access point is for one reason or another not reliably available. For these embodiments a complete or partial set of applicable data from the social network database is obtained by the acting device e.g. the customizable apparatus or the mobile device such as by receiving it from the social network server . The data may be limited to a particular apparatus and or data related to apparatus used by the subject member. Regarding the latter for instance it is contemplated that the mobile device could include social network data selected based on affinity relationships between the profiles of the user of the device and profiles of other members having a profile for the same or similar apparatus es . Thus for instance if a member drives e.g. has profiles for vehicles A and B the partial data may relate to vehicles A and B but also vehicles C and D which are recognized as being vehicle commonly driven by members also driving having profiles for vehicles A and B. The social network server may provide the complete or partial database information to the apparatus or mobile device such as in response to request for the same from the apparatus or device .

Thus in some embodiments the mobile communication device is configured to generate the customized setting based on social network data stored on the device. The social network data could include for instance a profile of the particular social network member and profiles of other members of the social network the profiles including at least one personalized setting for the corresponding members.

And in some embodiments the customizable apparatus includes a local component of a computer program configured to perform steps of the methods described herein. The program is stored in a tangible non transitory computer readable medium of the apparatus and executed by a processor of the apparatus such as a memory and a processor of an onboard computer of an automobile.

The customizable apparatus has one or more features capable of adjustment to personalized settings. In some embodiments it is preferred that these features e.g. automobile seat positions are automatically adjustable. Automatic adjustment could be made for example by an actuator servo micro motor electric motor or other standard mechanism configured to convert an instruction or other input into the personalized adjustment. The automatic adjustment may be controlled by for example a computer microprocessor other integrated circuit system application programming interface API or other controller implementing settings received from the CSN Server . In some embodiments such controller is onboard the apparatus .

In one embodiment the adjustments are initiated and or made by the social network member. For instance a customized setting is communicated from the CSN Server to the member such as by way of a display screen of the customizable apparatus or the mobile device and the member makes or initiates implementation of the customized setting such as by personally making or initiating the adjustment such as manually or by voice input.

Although the system of the present disclosure is described primarily with respect to automobiles the system may be used in connection with other vehicles of transportation as well as with non automotive apparatus. Other exemplary apparatus include but are not limited to mobile phones and other transportation vehicles such as aircraft and rail transportation. Regarding the other transportation vehicles for instance the settings could relate to a seat or bed setting a temperature setting a lighting setting an audio visual or multi media setting such as settings for in flight entertainment such as radio and television channels and games. Other contemplated exemplary apparatus include beds and chairs such as beds in a member s home or used by the member when visiting a hotel and customizable office chairs.

The CSN server includes at least one CSN server memory and at least one CSN server processor in communication with the memory via a data bus . The memory includes one or more storage modules storing computer readable instructions executable by the processor to perform the functions of the CSN server described herein.

In various embodiments the CSN server memory is separate from and connected to the CSN server such as wirelessly and or by wire line.

The CSN server also includes a network interface by which the CSN processor communicates via the data bus with the data network . For embodiments in which the SN database of or a portion thereof is remote to the CSN server the server could also connect to the SN database by way of the network interface .

As show in the SN database includes a data module . . . corresponding to each member of the social network where N is a positive integer representing a number of members in the network. Each member data module includes one or more profiles . Each of the illustrated profiles identifies characteristics of the member I II . . . N with respect to customizable Apparatus A B C etc. The characteristics include values or settings for adjustable or customizable features CF of the customizable apparatus.

Each member may be associated in the database with a unique identifying indicium. In one embodiment the indicia include an identification specific to the present social network system . In one embodiment the indicium includes an identification associated with a member s phone such as a subscriber identity module SIM identifier e.g. integrated circuit card id ICCID a cellular communication plan account number or the like. The subject member can communicate their indicium to the apparatus or other device e.g. mobile device in a variety of ways as provided herein e.g. short range radio keypad etc. .

In some embodiments each Apparatus A B C etc. is a different version of the same type of customizable apparatus . For instance in one example each Apparatus A B C etc. is a different make or model of automobile.

The server may in arranging information in the database group data in any of a variety of ways without departing from scope of the present invention. For instance the data may be grouped according to members and or by apparatus. The data could also be grouped by apparatus type so that for instance two different vehicle models are grouped together for purposes of generating recommended customized profiles because the models are sufficiently similar.

Data could also be grouped by settings for use in generating the recommended profile. For instance two settings in member profiles of the social network for a first model vehicle could be considered when generating corresponding settings for a subject member regarding a second vehicle due to a determined relevance but three other settings in profiles of the social network for the same first vehicle are not considered in generating the second vehicle recommended profile because the features related to the three settings are not sufficiently similar across the models.

As an example of data module composition with respect to the primary vehicular example each Apparatus A B C etc. could be a certain automobile. For instance Apparatus A could be a certain sports utility vehicle such as a Toyota 4Runner Apparatus B another automobile such as a Honda CRV Apparatus C another and so on. The characteristics include values for customizable features CF of the vehicles such as seat positions seat temperatures heating ventilating and air conditioning HVAC setting navigation related features radio settings and settings of a voice recognition application.

Each apparatus A B C etc. may have any number of characteristics in common. For instance Apparatus A may include a feature such as a thigh support position setting that is not a customizable feature of Apparatus B and or Apparatus C. With reference to the data corresponding to Apparatus A in each member data module includes customizable features . . . M while the data corresponding to Apparatus B in each member data module includes customizable features . . . and Apparatus C has customizable features . . . . By the illustrated example the apparatus A B C have some features in common e.g. 1 2 3 and other features distinctly e.g. M .

In a contemplated embodiment the member modules may include one or more interim profiles as illustrated by dotted lines in . For instance the interim profile may be for example a recommended customized profile that has been pre generated by the CSN server and or other system computing resource e.g. the mobile device in accordance with the methods described below in anticipation of a potential request from or scheduled data push to the corresponding member I for use in connection with Apparatus B.

The stored interim profiles could be those being provided to the respective apparatus or member as a recommended customized profile but not finalized. In various contemplated embodiments finalizing a profile is triggered in any of various circumstances such as i the member using the recommended customized profile performing an acceptance action before or after such use confirming that the recommended customized profile is acceptable e.g. ergonomically comfortable to the member or ii the member using the recommended customized profile and not changing it for a certain period e.g. for one day one week or one operation of the subject apparatus . In another exemplary case iii in which the member further customizes a recommended customized profile the further customization would be saved in the data module for the member as a finalized profile .

In another contemplated embodiment the CSN server and or other system computing resource e.g. the mobile device maintain a substantially blank or only partially populated profile in the database as a place holder for profiles to be established. shows a placeholder profile regarding the third Apparatus C in the data module for the first Member I as an example of a partially populated interim profile.

As shown in the customizable apparatus includes a processor and a memory in communication by way of a data bus . The memory stores computer readable instructions executable by the processor to perform functions of the apparatus . For instance the processor and memory could be primary components of an onboard computer of an automobile.

The instructions of the memory in some embodiments include a social network program component SNPC . The program component causes the processor to perform functions such as a generate a recommended customized profile b request a recommended customized profile receive the recommended customized profile and c implement the recommended customized profile.

The processor causes the memory to store profiles such as those created by the member received from the CSN server or mobile device as a recommended customized profile or generated by the processor as a recommended customized profile. The processor later accesses the stored profile from the memory for use in adjusting one or more customizable features of the apparatus . As provided exemplary customizable features of an automobile include positions of vehicle seats e.g. driver s seat front passenger seat rear passenger seats such as settings related to any one or more of seat height seat angles base cushion angle seat back angle etc. longitudinal position lumbar support thigh support and neck or head positioning.

The processor implements the customized profiles whether created by the member and or received as a recommended profile by way of an actuator micro motor electric motor or other standard mechanism configured to convert an instruction or other input into a desired adjustment in the feature s of the customizable apparatus .

As further shown in the customizable apparatus in some embodiments includes a registration mechanism . The registration mechanism is used to identify the member and in some cases a position and or a vantage of the member with respect to the apparatus for implementing the proper profile s to customizable features . The registration mechanism in some embodiments operates as a security feature to limit operation of the apparatus or functions thereof e.g. customizable functions to the particular social network member.

The registration mechanism includes any of a wide variety of registration type devices. Exemplary registration mechanisms include A a key validator B a pass code validator C a short range wireless component or D a biometric sensor. These exemplary types of registration mechanisms are described further below.

In some embodiments the customizable apparatus includes an input output device such as an interactive display screen keypad e.g. door or phone keypad an interface configured to recognize voice input and or provide audio feedback combinations of these and the like.

The customizable apparatus also includes a network interface . The network interface is used to connect the customizable apparatus to external networks such as the data network for communicating with the social network server . The network interface is in some embodiments also configured to connect the customizable apparatus to devices external to or a part of the apparatus . The interface includes any one or more of a variety of communication hardware for these functions such as wireless transceivers routers and wired ports. The devices to which the network interface may connect include the mobile communication device such as for determining a presence proximity and identification of a member using the apparatus .

As provided the registration mechanism of the customizable apparatus in some embodiments validates a key. The key could be a traditional tangible key electronic key or combination thereof. The apparatus using this type of mechanism include automobiles and other apparatus commonly using keys for entry or authorization of members for example. Confirming a proper key could be used to identify the particular member and in some cases their position.

For example a first member and a second member of the social network sharing a car at times could be issued distinct keys. When one of the members uses their key such as on a driver s door or in the ignition of the vehicle the customizable apparatus e.g. the processor based on input thereto signifying key presentation recognizes the corresponding member and that they are apparently the driver.

In response the apparatus obtains and implements profile settings for customizable features of the apparatus . The profile is stored locally on the apparatus and or remote to the apparatus such as at the mobile device and or social network server .

The registration mechanism of the customizable apparatus is in some embodiments configured to receive a pass code. The registration mechanism identifies the member based on presentation of a pass code corresponding to the member. The pass code validator may be a validating program stored in the memory of the customizable device and executed by the processor .

In some embodiments the pass code is an identification associated with the member a private code associated with the member or a combination thereof for example. The apparatus could be arranged to receive a pass code including for instance any of letters numbers and other symbols at the data input output I O device of the apparatus .

As another example of a registration mechanism the customizable apparatus in some embodiments includes a receiver and processing components for receiving a short range SR wireless signal from the member and identifying the member thereby. The processing components may include computer readable instructions stored in the memory or other computer readable medium of the apparatus and the processor or other processing component of the apparatus execute the instructions.

The SR wireless component receives SR signals such as SR radio signals transmitted by the mobile communication device . As provided above the mobile communication device could be a smart phone dedicated navigation device or electronic key fob. In other contemplated embodiments the mobile communication device is worn by the member such as in a watch jewelry eyeglasses belt buckle or otherwise physically associated with the member .

The types of SR communication used by the registration mechanism is not limited and in some embodiments include radio frequency identification RFID BLUETOOTH WI FI wireless local area networks WLAN near field communications NFC or ultra wide band UWB communications. For instance with respect to RFID the registration mechanism in some embodiments includes an RFID reader to read an RFID tag or chip such as a tag being a part of the mobile communication device .

Some customizable apparatus have features customizable for multiple social network members such an automobile. For these applications the SR wireless component in some embodiments is configured to identify a position or vantage of each of multiple applicable members with respect to the apparatus for properly implementing respective customized settings for the members. With reference to the practical example introduced above if a first and a second member are entering a driver s seat and front passenger seat of a vehicle and the vehicle has customizable features corresponding to each position driver s and front passenger s the vehicle must become aware which member is in which position.

The SR wireless component is in various embodiments configured to alone or in combination with a supplemental computing device e.g. processor identify the member entering or present in a position with respect to the customizable apparatus . In one particular embodiment the SR wireless component includes at least one directional antenna. By being able to identify a direction that respective signals are received the SR wireless component can identify or facilitate identification of a member and a position of the member with respect to the vehicle.

In some particular embodiments the SR wireless component includes at least one receiver being capable of determining proximity of an external SR device. For instance the SR component is in some embodiments configured to determine a distance that a member is separated from a certain portion of the customizable apparatus such as a driver s side door of an automobile. In this way the SR wireless component can identify or facilitate identification of e.g. in combination with the processor a member and a position of the member.

By way of specific example the SR wireless component may be positioned in a steering wheel of a car. The SR wireless component senses that a first member e.g. a first wireless communication device of the first member is nearby e.g. within about two feet the SR wireless component and a second member e.g. a second wireless communication device of the second member is farther away e.g. outside of three feet . Based on this information the SR wireless component can alone or in combination with a supplemental computing device e.g. processor identify the first and second members and estimate that they are positioned in the drivers and front passenger positions respectively. The same type of proximity analysis can be used to determine position of back seat passengers in the vehicular example.

In one particular embodiment the SR wireless component as the registration mechanism is configured to only sense SR signals originating within a certain short distance from the component. In this way the SR wireless component effectively determines proximity by being capable of confirming that a member is within the certain short distance.

For increased accuracy of position determination the SR wireless component in some embodiments includes multiple receivers e.g. antennae and is in these and other embodiments configured to institute a combination of directional and proximity measurements to identify the position s of member s with respect to the customizable apparatus . For instance in one case an automobile includes a receiver positioned at two or more positions of the vehicle such as one in each door of the vehicle. The SR wireless component including these receivers can identify one or more members accessing the customizable apparatus and determine a position of the member s in the vehicle using a one or a combination of proximity and directional measurements.

Another exemplary registration mechanism includes a biometric sensor. Biometric sensors measure characteristics of the member of the social network and thereby identify the social network member. Distinguishing characteristics can include behavioral characteristics and or physiological traits. Exemplary behavioral characteristics include walking gait signature typing style and facial movements e.g. lip movement when talking . Exemplary physiological traits include fingerprint weight voice retinal iris qualities odor body salinity and galvanic readout e.g. galvanic skin response GSR .

For instance with further reference to the vehicular example the vehicle may include a fingerprint scanner as part of the registration mechanism positioned in a driver s position door handle. When a member grasps the handle the mechanism can determine or facilitate determination of the identity of the member.

In one embodiment the registration mechanism considers that a person initially registered at a first point such as by a front door handle grasp could end up in another position with respect to the customizable apparatus such as in the rear seat. In a particular embodiment the registration mechanism includes additional functionality to confirm whether a resulting position of the member such as in the front or back seat in the example. It is contemplated that the additional functionality may use any of various data such as data regarding historic positioning of the member s with respect to the vehicle and additional sensor feedback e.g. a weight sensor in the driver s seat and one in each back seat. .

Also by location of the biometric sensor the position of the member sensed can be determined. For instance if the registration mechanism included a driver s seat weight sensor and a galvanic readout or salinity sensor in a steering wheel or gear shift the mechanism can determine or facilitate determination of an identify and in some cases a position of the member.

Although connections are not shown between all of the components illustrated in the components can interact with each other to carry out device functions. In some embodiments for example the components are arranged so as to communicate via one or more busses not shown . It should be understood that and the following description are intended to provide a general understanding of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of some embodiments of the present disclosure can be implemented.

In some embodiments the mobile device is a multimode headset and has a variety of computer readable media including for example volatile media non volatile media removable media and non removable media. The term computer readable media and variants thereof as used in the specification and claims refers to storage media. In some embodiments storage media includes volatile and or non volatile removable and or non removable media. For example storage media includes random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM solid state memory or other memory technology CD ROM DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store the desired information and that can be accessed by the mobile device .

As illustrated in the mobile device includes a display for displaying multimedia such as for example application graphical user interfaces GUIs text images video telephony functions such as Caller ID data setup functions menus music metadata messages wallpaper graphics Internet content device status preferences settings map and location data routes and other directions points of interest P and the like. The illustrated mobile device also includes a processor for controlling processing data and or executing computer executable instructions of one or more applications and a memory for storing data and or one or more applications . In some embodiments the memory stores information associated with determining location of the mobile device according the methods described herein. For example the memory may store information including user preference factors and or administrative factors set by an administrator manufacturer or service provider which are described in more detail below.

In some embodiments the application s include a user interface UI application . The UI application interfaces with a client e.g. an operating system OS to facilitate user interaction with device functionality and data. In some embodiments the client is one of Symbian OS Symbian OS is a registered trademark of Symbian Limited of London England Microsoft Windows Mobile OS Microsoft and Windows are registered trademarks of the Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. Palm webOS Palm WebOS is a registered trademark of the Palm Trademark Holding Company of Sunnyvale Calif. Palm OS also a registered trademark of the Palm Trademark Holding Company RIM BlackBerry OS RIM and Blackberry are registered trademarks of Research In Motion Limited of Waterloo Ontario Canada Apple iPhone OS Apple and iPhone are registered trademarks of the Apple Corporation of Cupertino Calif. or Google Android OS Android is a registered trademark of Google Inc. of Mountain View Calif. . These operating systems are merely exemplary of the operating systems that can be used in accordance with the embodiments disclosed herein. Other operating systems are contemplated.

The UI application aids the user in entering message content viewing received messages answering initiating calls entering deleting data entering and setting user IDs and passwords configuring settings manipulating address book content and or settings interacting with other applications and the like. In some embodiments the other applications include for example add ons plug ins location applications e mail applications music applications video applications camera applications power conservation applications game applications productivity applications entertainment applications enterprise applications customer information management applications accounting applications authentication applications applications proprietary business applications combinations thereof and the like.

The other applications in some embodiments include a program component for performing functions of the present disclosure. For instance the applications may include instructions for use by the mobile communication device in authenticating the device and thereby the member to the customizable apparatus communicating settings or other characteristics of a recommended customized profile to a member requesting and or receiving a recommended customized profile from the CSN server and generating a recommended customized profile such as based on data procured from the member the customizable apparatus and or the SN database .

The applications are stored in the memory and or in a firmware and can be executed by the processor . The firmware can also store code for execution during device power up for example.

The illustrated mobile device also includes an input output I O interface for input output of data such as for example user IDs passwords and application initiation start up requests. In some embodiments the I O interface is a hardwire connection such as for example a USB mini USB audio jack PS2 IEEE 1394 serial parallel Ethernet RJ48 port RJ11 port or the like. In some embodiments the I O interface accepts other I O devices such as for example keyboards keypads mice interface tethers stylus pens printers thumb drives touch screens multi touch screens touch pads trackballs joysticks microphones remote control devices monitors displays liquid crystal displays LCDs combinations thereof and the like. It should be appreciated that the I O interface can be used for communications between the mobile device and a network or local device instead of or in addition to a communications component .

The communications component interfaces with the processor to facilitate wired wireless communications with external systems. Example external systems include but are not limited to intranets network databases network storage systems cellular networks location systems Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP networks local area networks LANs wide area networks WANs metropolitan area networks MANs personal area networks PANs and other networks. In some embodiments the external systems are implemented using WIFI WIMAX combinations and or improvements thereof and the like. In some embodiments the communications component includes a multimode communications subsystem for providing cellular communications via different cellular technologies. In some embodiments for example a first cellular transceiver operates in one mode such as Global System for Mobile communications GSM and an Nth cellular transceiver operates in a different mode such as Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS . While only two cellular transceivers are illustrated the mobile device may include more than two transceivers.

The illustrated communications component also includes a transceiver for use by other communications technologies such as for example WIFI WIMAX BLUETOOTH infrared infrared data association IRDA near field communications NFC radio frequency RF and the like. In some embodiments the communications component also facilitate reception from terrestrial radio networks digital satellite radio networks Internet based radio services networks combinations thereof and the like. The communications component can process data from a network such as for example the Internet an intranet a home broadband network a WIFI hotspot and the like via an ISP DSL provider or broadband provider.

In some embodiments of the present invention audio capabilities for the mobile device are provided by an audio I O component including a speaker to output audio signals and a microphone to receive audio signals.

The illustrated mobile device also includes a slot interface for accommodating a subscriber identity system such as for example a subscriber identity module SIM card a universal SIM USIM card or a universal integrated circuit card UICC . Alternatively the subscriber identity system can be manufactured into the device thereby obviating the need for a slot interface . In some embodiments the subscriber identity system stores information associated with determining location of the mobile device according the methods described herein. For example the subscriber identity system may store information including user preference factors and or administrative factors set by an administrator manufacturer or service provider which are described in more detail below. In some embodiments the subscriber identity system is programmed by a manufacturer a retailer a user a computer a network operator or the like.

The illustrated mobile device also includes an image capture and processing system image system . Photos can be obtained via an associated image capture subsystem of the image system for example a camera. The illustrated mobile device also includes a video system for capturing processing recording modifying and or transmitting video content.

The illustrated mobile device also includes a location component for use in determining geographic location of the mobile device . The location component may include for example a GPS receiver.

The illustrated mobile device also includes a power source such as batteries and or other power subsystem AC or DC . The power source can interface with an external power system or charging equipment via a power I O component .

Steps can be added omitted and or performed simultaneously without departing from the scope of the appended claims. It should also be understood that the illustrated method can be ended at any time. In certain embodiments some or all steps of this process and or substantially equivalent steps are performed by execution of computer readable instructions stored or included on a computer readable medium such as the memory of the social network server the SN database and or the memory of the mobile device for example. The instructions are processed by one or more processors such as the processor of the CSN server the processor of the customizable apparatus and the processor of the mobile communication device .

The method begins and flow proceeds to step whereat the processor of the CSN server determines to generate a recommended customized profile particular to a subject member of the social network and particular to a particular customizable apparatus . The determination of step could be made for example in response to the server receiving a request from the customizable apparatus or the mobile communications device . Such a request could be initiated in response to the apparatus identifying the particular member and determining that the particular member is positioned to use the apparatus by way of the registration mechanism described above.

As an example carried throughout this method for teaching purposes a member of the social network enters a certain type of vehicle being the customizable apparatus for a first time. For instance the user may be renting a vehicle or may have just purchased the vehicle. With reference to the particular member can be the first member I and the new vehicle can be the vehicle corresponding to the second apparatus B.

In step the processor generates the recommended customized profile. At sub step of step the processor identifies an apparatus or other characteristic such as a customizable feature of an apparatus of the social network that is also associated with the subject member in the social network such as in the social network database . For instance with reference to the example of the processor could identify that the first member I has a profile corresponding to the first type of vehicle apparatus A. In the example apparatus A is used for matching because it is the only established profile for the member I. In cases in which the particular member has multiple established profiles corresponding to multiple apparatus the algorithm may be configured to cause the processor to match more than one profile corresponding to more than one apparatus of the particular member to those of other members in generating the recommended customized profile.

At sub step the processor identifies one or more other members having 1 the same or similar profile characteristics for the matching type of apparatus e.g. apparatus A in the continuing example and 2 a profile corresponding to the subject apparatus e.g. apparatus B . In one embodiment a profile or characteristic has sufficient similarity if it is within a certain percentage difference from the particular member s profile. The processor may consider an average mean or other relationship of comparisons between the particular member s profile and the profiles of other members.

In one contemplated embodiment applicable profiles such as those corresponding to a particular apparatus e.g. particular vehicle model are combined prior to present performance of sub step and stored for later reference. In this embodiment the processor in sub step could identify the already prepared information instead of re searching for applicable profiles of the other members.

With respect to the ongoing example and with continued reference to the processor in sub step identifies amongst members having a profile for the same apparatus A including member II member N and any other members having profiles for the matching apparatus A profiles of members who have 1 the same or sufficiently similar profiles as the first member I for the matching apparatus A. For purposes of this example it is assumed that member II and member N each have 1 the same or sufficiently similar profiles for the matching apparatus A and 2 a profile corresponding to the subject apparatus B.

At sub step once applicable profiles of other members are identified or related pre grouped information the processor generates a recommended customized profile for the subject member and the particular type of customizable apparatus considering the profiles for the subject customizable apparatus i.e. apparatus B of the matching member s . The processor considers the matching profile information according to a matching algorithm as appreciated by those of skill in the art for finding a best ergonomic fit for the subject member with respect to the subject apparatus . The algorithm may be for instance a mathematical model such as a smoothing function for finding the best ergonomic fit for the subject member with respect to the subject apparatus .

In sub step the processor may also consider biometric information about the particular member of the social network in generating the recommended customized profile. For instance the processor may configure along with the matching profile information a weight of the particular member. In one embodiment the recommended customized profile is generated primarily with respect to biometric information. And in a particular embodiment generation of the recommended customizable profile is based completely on biometric information without consideration of profile settings of the subject member.

Continuing with the primary example the processor at sub step generates the recommended customized profile for apparatus B for member I as a combination of the matching profiles and of the matching profiles and biometric information about the particular member.

An exemplary use case is now presented to further illustrate the sub steps of the step of generating the recommenced customized profile. The case relates to a single customizable feature for ease of teaching but it should be appreciated that the concept is scalable and can be extended in scope to evaluation and comparison of multi feature scenarios.

In the use case the customizable feature is longitudinal seat position and all possible longitudinal seat settings can be represented by quantitative values. In this example the first subject member of the present social network member I has longitudinal seat position value of 8 out of 15 for a first vehicle being apparatus A. Member II has a profile corresponding to the same vehicle apparatus A as does member N. Based on this information the processor would determine in sub step that the data modules for member II and member N qualify for further analysis in sub step .

As further assumed in this use case member II has a longitudinal seat position value of 8 out of 15 and member N has a longitudinal value of 10 out of 15. At sub step the processor considers 1 whether the profiles or characteristics here longitudinal seat positions for member II and member N are the same or sufficiently similar to that of the first member I and 2 the members having proper profiles for base apparatus also have profiles for the subject apparatus to qualify as a match. Both members II and N are associated with profiles for apparatus B. And the longitudinal seat position value for member II is the same as that for member I and so is a match. Whether the value for member N is also a match i.e. is sufficiently similar can depend on a threshold for similarity established for instance by a designer of the system and or the member.

Assuming that according to the present algorithm the longitudinal seat position value for member N is sufficiently similar to that of member I i.e. 10 is sufficiently close to 8 then at sub step the data modules or profiles for member II and member N would be identified as a match. Subsequently at sub step the processor would determine a recommended profile regarding the second apparatus II for which member I has no profile for the subject member I based on profiles that matching members Hand N have for the second apparatus II.

Further assume that member II has a longitudinal seat position value of 12 out of 20 and member N has a longitudinal seat position value of 16 out of 20. The present algorithm can be configured to process multiple profiles or profile information from multiple member modules in sub step in a variety of ways per specifications of the designer and or the member. For instance in one embodiment the resulting recommended setting is a simple average of the values procured from profiles of matching members of the social network. With this configuration the processor would in sub step generate a recommended profile for the first member I having a longitudinal seat position value of 14 or the average of 12 and 16.

In another embodiment the algorithm causes the processor to take a mean of applicable values. In one embodiment the algorithm causes the processor to consider a degree by which the matching members were similar to the subject member. In the present use for example the processor would recognize that the apparatus A profile values s here just the longitudinal seat position for member II were closer to the apparatus A profile for the subject member I than the profile for member N was to the profile of the subject member I. Recognizing the various levels of relation the processor can accord increased importance or weight to each value in a profile or entire profiles that are closer in match. Particularly in the present use case the processor could recommend a longitudinal seat position value of 13 being closer to the 12 value for member II than the 16 value for member N because the apparatus A profile for member II was closer to the apparatus A profile for the subject member I.

In one embodiment the algorithm causes the processor to consider biometric similarities between the subject member I and at least matching members members II and N . For instance while an average of the matching member profile values for longitudinal seat position is 14 as shown the processor may recommend a seat position value of 15 closer to the 16 value for member N because member N is closer in weight or closer by a certain amount e.g. percentage to the weight of the subject member I.

The algorithm could also consider a combination of factors such as similarity in matching sub step and biometric similarities differences. For instance combining the two above examples wherein the processor considers the similarity in matching to arrive at a seat position value of 13 and biometric features to arrive at a value of 15 the processor may arrive at a value of 14. While the value of 14 in this basic example ends up being the same as the simple average of the values 12 and 16 it will be appreciated that it was in this embodiment arrived at by processing the more detail algorithm.

In generating the customized profile in sub step the algorithm in some embodiments causes the processor to identify a recommend profile being a particular identified profile such as a profile of another member whose profile best matches the subject member.

The recommended profile in some embodiments is a pre generated profile as referenced above. The profile may be pre generated to for instance save processing cost e.g. resources usage and time at the time of generating the recommendation in sub step .

Also in identifying profiles of sufficient match in sub step one or more features of profiles being matched can be given more weight than others. For instance in the automotive example in finding a matching profile or in generating the recommended customized profile the instructions of the present algorithm could be configured to cause the processor to give more weight to primary customizable features such as seat position over what may be considered a secondary consideration.

In some embodiments the algorithm causes the processor to consider more than one profile of the subject member and other members. For instance if the subject member has social network profiles for a vehicle a and a vehicle b but not vehicle c vehicles not illustrated the processor could consider similarities between both the vehicle a and b profiles of the subject member and the vehicle a and b profiles of other members in defining the matching apparatus of sub step the sub step of matching members and sub step of generating the recommended profile. For instance in sub step more weight could be given to vehicle c profile values for a member x because member x has profiles that are similar to the subject member while the vehicle c profile of member y is considered but less considered because either member y does not have both a vehicle a and b profile or one of the profiles for vehicle a and b for member y is not sufficiently close to the vehicle a and b profiles of the subject member or not as close to the subject member profiles for vehicle a and b compared with member x.

Still further regarding sub step the algorithm in some embodiments causes the processor to consider a situational characteristic. For instance if the customizable apparatus is a transportation vehicle and the subject member indicates that they are embarking on a long distance the processor may generate or adjust the recommended customized profile accordingly. For example the processor may identify a sub set of profiles e.g. in sub steps and being particular to long trip scenarios for other members of the social network. Other exemplary situational characteristics include the member being injured or being in one of a work and a play or non work mode. A work play mode distinction could relate to a day and or a time of day that the customized profile is being requested or used such as whether use is during a work week day versus during an evening or weekend day. Another exemplary situational characteristic is that a member is a child or infant. This situation could also be assumed based for example on member weight or height and so could also be considered as in biometric related considerations.

At step the processor causes a memory to store the new profile. In one embodiment this involves the processor of the CSN server transmitting the newly generated profile to the SN database for storage. The new profile may be stored in association to the particular member for whom it was created and the particular corresponding apparatus for later use in generating a profile for other network members.

At step the particular member operates the customizable apparatus using the new profile. As provided above the customizable apparatus is in some embodiments configured to automatically implement the setting s of the new profile. For instance the apparatus may include an actuator micro motor electric motor API or other standard mechanism configured to convert an instruction e.g. from the processor of the customizable apparatus or other input into the personalized adjustment s .

As also provided above the member may change the new profile. In this case the changes may be sent from the customizable apparatus to the CSN server for storage in the SN database .

Various embodiments of the present disclosure are disclosed herein. The disclosed embodiments are merely examples that may be embodied in various and alternative forms and combinations thereof. As used herein for example exemplary and similar terms refer expansively to embodiments that serve as an illustration specimen model or pattern. The figures are not necessarily to scale and some features may be exaggerated or minimized such as to show details of particular components. In some instances well known components systems materials or methods have not been described in detail in order to avoid obscuring the present disclosure. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art.

The law does not require and it is economically prohibitive to illustrate and teach every possible embodiment of the present claims. Hence the above described embodiments are merely exemplary illustrations of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Variations modifications and combinations may be made to the above described embodiments without departing from the scope of the claims. All such variations modifications and combinations are included herein by the scope of this disclosure and the following claims.

