---

title: Upgradeable engine framework for audio and video
abstract: An audio/video (A/V) system includes an audio/video (A/V) component configured to generate audio or video data. The A/V system includes one or more processing devices configured to implement an audio or video processing engine to process the audio or video data to generate one or more different domain representations of the audio or video data. The A/V system includes one or more audio or video processing applications that are each configured to access one or more of the different domain representations of the audio or video data, and to perform audio or video processing on the one or more accessed domain representations of the audio or video data. Each of the one or more processing applications access and process the domain representations independently of each other.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08914137&OS=08914137&RS=08914137
owner: Dolby Laboratories Licensing Corporation
number: 08914137
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100617
---
This utility application is a national stage application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application No. PCT US2010 039033 titled UPGRADEABLE ENGINE FRAMEWORK FOR AUDIO AND VIDEO filed Jun. 17 2010 which claims the benefit of priority to a U.S. Provisional Application for U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 61 218 759 titled UPGRADEABLE ENGINE FRAMEWORK FOR AUDIO AND VIDEO filed on Jun. 19 2009 the contents of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

Video displays such as CRTs LCDs plasma displays and projectors may be manufactured and shipped with technology for processing video and handling audio. In a home theater environment video displays may be accompanied by other components. Some components can include video playback devices such as disc players hard drive disc players Blu ray disc players . Home theater systems also can include a variety of types of speakers such as compact speakers e.g. bookshelf speakers or floor standing speakers e.g. tower speakers full range speakers . Other components may include audio video receivers which receive a signal e.g. from the a disc player and sends it to the speakers and or the video display.

Example embodiments relating to upgradeable audio and video applications are described herein. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of various embodiments. It will be apparent however that these embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring other features. The details of one or more embodiments are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and aspects are apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

Some embodiments of the disclosed techniques involve an audio video A V system including an audio video A V component configured to generate audio or video data one or more processing devices configured to implement an audio or video processing engine configured to process the audio or video data to generate one or more different domain representations of the audio or video data and one or more audio or video processing applications that are each configured to access one or more of the different domain representations of the audio or video data and to perform audio or video processing on the one or more accessed domain representations of the audio or video data. Each of the one or more processing applications access and process the domain representations independently of each other.

These and other embodiments can optionally include one or more of the following features. The one or more processing devices can be configured to download the one or more applications from a server. The one or more processing devices can be configured to present an interface for a user to select one or more of the applications for downloading. The one or more processing devices can be configured to present an interface to an A V user of the A V component in which the interface can be configured to allow the A V user to control settings for the one or more audio or video processing applications. The interface can include one or more panels for each audio or video processing application. The one or more panels can allow at least one of following functions a first panel to activate or de active the application a second panel to provide a description of the application to the A V user and a third panel to present the settings to the A V user. Each audio or video processing application can include a processing module to interact with the audio or video processing engine and application data for the interface for presentation of control and description information for the application on the one or more panels. The interface can be overlayed over at least an image of video content that is playing or playable in a background. The A V system can include a router coupled to the A V component. The router can include one or more of the processing devices. A computer can be coupled to the router and the computer can include one or more of the processing devices. The A V component can include one or more of the processing devices. The A V component can include a video display a digital video player a television tuner an audio video receiver AVR system a satellite receiver and or a cable television box. The domain representations can include a frequency domain and a perceptual domain.

In other general aspects techniques involve a method comprising executing an audio or video processing engine configured to process audio or video data to generate one or more different domain representations of the audio or video data and executing one or more audio or video processing applications configured to access one or more of the different domain representations of the audio or video data and to perform audio or video processing on the one or more accessed domain representations of the audio or video data.

These and other embodiments can optionally include one or more of the following features. The method can include downloading one of the audio or video processing applications from an application developer using a user account in which each downloadable audio or video processing application can include data for a graphical user interface GUI for presentation on an A V component. The method can include installing the downloaded audio or video processing application to be used with the engine. The method can include using the GUI to receive a user input to adjust the performance of the A V component and in response to the user input adjusting the performance of the A V component and presenting a representation of the adjustment to the performance of the A V component in the GUI. The audio or video processing application can include a processing module. The method may involve sharing processing resources when two or more processing modules are processed in a frequency domain with the engine and the sharing of processing resources can involve a reuse of processes with the engine. The processing in the frequency domain can involve utilizing one or more transforms comprising a Fast Fourier Transform FFT a hybrid Quadrature Mirror Filter QMF bank a discrete cosine transform DCT a modified discrete cosine transform MDCT a Quadrature Mirror Filter QMF a pseudo quadrature mirror filter PQMF or a modified FFT representation. The processing in the frequency domain can utilize a frequency domain representation of a decoder. The processing in the frequency domain may utilize a frequency to time domain transformation of the decoder. The audio or video processing can include a transformation of the audio or video data from a time domain to a frequency domain processing with the engine the transformed audio or video data with the two or more audio or video processing applications having processing modules in the frequency domain and a transformation of the processed audio or video data from the frequency domain to the time domain. At least one of the processing modules can be configured for processing in the time domain and in the frequency domain. The method can include adjusting the performance of an A V component by providing functionality for the A V component in addition to the functionality of the A V component at the time of manufacture. The A V component can include a video display a digital video player a television tuner an audio video receiver AVR system a satellite receiver or a cable television box. The method can include adjusting an A V component in regards to one or more factors. The one or more factors can include a setting of the A V component a usage history of the A V component a configuration of the A V component a resource sharing requirement for the A V component a performance requirement for the A V component an amount of processing resources a level of quality of the A V component a type of content to be played on the A V system and or a number of processing modules to process.

In other general aspects techniques involve an audio video A V system comprising one or more processing devices and one or more storage devices storing instructions that when executed by the one or more processing devices cause the one or more processing devices to implement one or more audio or video processing applications for the A V system. Each of the applications includes a processing module and data for a graphical user interface GUI for presentation on the A V system. Each application is configured to adjust a performance or a setting of the A V equipment. The system includes an audio or video processing engine configured to interact with the processing modules for the applications in which the audio or video processing engine is configured to share processing resources among two or more of the processing modules.

These and other embodiments can optionally include one or more of the following features. The audio or video processing engine can include an audio signal analysis ASA module for signal analysis of audio or video data in which the ASA module can be further configured for sharing processing resources among the applications. The A V system can include metadata regarding the applications and the upgradeable engine. The metadata can include information regarding statistics associated with the engine the applications a user of the A V system characteristics of the A V system and or characteristics of the user. The engine can be configured to manage the metadata. The characteristics of the A V system can include an age a model a performance specification an amount of usage a type of content used a performance setting an amount of processing resources an input or output configuration and or a compatibility of the A V equipment of the A V system. The characteristics of the user can include an age of the user a habit of the user a number of downloaded applications from the user a type of downloaded applications from the user and or data from a profile of the user based on a user profile or a user account. The upgradeable engine can be configured to use at least one of the applications with the metadata for enhancing a quality of a sound or an image for the A V system over the quality of the sound or the image when used without the application. The GUI can include data or utilize data to present one or more buttons for selecting or de selecting of the application a description of a purpose or a function of the application settings for configuring the A V system and or a meter reading to present a measurement of a unit related to an audio or video quality. The GUI can include data and or utilize data for each application to conform to a similar layout or design format. The processing modules can share a common application programming interface API . Each of the processing modules for each application can include A V data signal analysis modules functional modules and or application programming interface API information. The applications can be downloadable applications. The A V system can include a sound sensor coupled to the A V system to detect sound conditions around the A V system and a light sensor coupled to the A V system to detect light conditions around the A V system. The upgradeable engine can be configured to manage downloaded applications and adjust the performance or the setting of the A V equipment based on the light and sound conditions. The A V system can include a user account that includes information for the A V user the A V system and or the downloaded and downloadable applications. The GUI can be configured to manage the information for the user account with the A V user and an application developer. The A V system can be configured to send statistics to the application developer over an Internet connection regarding the upgradeable engine the downloaded applications the A V user characteristics of the A V system or characteristics of the A V user. The A V system can be configured to use data for the light and sound conditions to download the downloadable applications and adjust the performance or the setting of the A V equipment. The A V system can include and or utilize a light and sound profile for the light and sound conditions of the A V equipment. The light and sound profile can be stored in one of the storage devices. The A V system can include and or utilize a biometric profile of the A V user in which the A V system can be configured to further adjust the performance or the setting of the A V equipment based on the biometric profile of the A V user. The biometric profile of the A V user can include at least a hearing profile of the A V user.

In other general aspects a method involves accessing a plurality of processing modules for a plurality of downloadable applications. Each downloadable application includes at least one processing module and data for a graphical user interface GUI . Each processing module is configured to interact with an upgradeable engine to adjust a performance or a setting of an audio and video A V equipment. The method includes arranging an order of two or more of the processing modules in a processing chain to share processing resources to reduce a processing requirement of the A V equipment and or to enhance a level of performance of the A V equipment.

These and other embodiments can optionally include one or more of the following features. The arranging of the order of the two or more processing modules can involve using metadata to control the processing order. The metadata can relate to a processing requirement or a level of performance. The order of the processing modules can include an order in which the processing modules are processed with the upgradeable engine in which the processing order of the processing modules can be dynamically adjustable based on one or more factors. The one or more factors can include a type an age a performance specification or a condition of the A V equipment an input configuration or output configuration on the A V equipment an amount of available processing resources a number of processing modules to process a type of processing module user requirements a level of a quality of the A V equipment a type of content to be played by the A V equipment a processing module to add to the processing chain user input information from a user profile a usage history of the A V equipment a predefined processing order for a processing chain and or information downloaded from an application developer. Arranging the order of two or more of the processing modules can be based upon a predefined processing order for a configuration of the A V equipment. The predefined processing order can be downloaded from an application developer. Arranging the order of two or more of the processing modules can include assigning each of the processing modules to a level of a hierarchy of a processing chain for each level of the hierarchy evaluating a processing cost or a processing resource requirement to determine if the processing cost or the processing resource requirement is lower if the processing module in that level is rearranged into another level of the hierarchy and if the processing cost or the processing resource requirement is lower if the processing module is positioned in the other level of the hierarchy then rearranging the order of the hierarchy to position the processing module in the level that produces the lower processing cost.

In other general aspects an audio video A V system includes downloadable applications for an A V system. Each of the downloadable applications includes a processing module and data for a graphical user interface GUI for presentation on the A V system. Each downloadable application is configured to adjust a performance or a setting of the A V equipment. The system includes an upgradeable engine configured to interact with the processing modules for the downloadable applications. The upgradeable engine is configured to share processing resources in the A V system for the processing module. The upgradeable engine is configured to manage downloaded applications and adjust the performance or the setting of the A V equipment based on one or more factors.

These and other embodiments can optionally include one or more of the following features. The A V system can include and or utilize a user account that comprises information for the A V user the A V system and the downloaded and downloadable applications. The GUI can be configured to manage the information for the user account with the A V user and an application developer. The A V system can be configured to send statistics to the application developer over an Internet connection regarding the upgradeable engine the downloaded applications the A V user characteristics of the A V system and or characteristics of the A V user. The one or more factors can involve a type of A V equipment an input configuration of the A V equipment an output configuration of the A V equipment a specification of the A V equipment a level of quality of the A V equipment and or a usage history of the A V equipment. The one or more factors can involve an amount of processing power available for the A V system a number of applications for processing a type of application for processing or a type of application available for downloading. The one or more factors can also involve a type of A V content to be played on the A V system a user preference or a user input. The one or more factors can include an age of the A V equipment or a level of degradation of performance of the A V equipment over time. At least one of the applications can be configured to correct for the level of degradation of performance of the A V equipment. The A V system also can include and or utilize a biometric profile of the A V user. The A V system can be configured to further adjust the performance or the setting of the A V equipment based on the biometric profile of the A V user. The biometric profile of the A V user can include a hearing profile of the A V user.

In other general aspects techniques involve a method for audio and video A V equipment. The method includes sending a processing module for at least one of a plurality of downloadable applications from an application developer over an Internet connection to A V equipment for an A V user. Each downloadable application includes at least one processing module. Each downloadable application can be configured to interact with an upgradeable engine to adjust a performance or a setting of the A V equipment. The method includes sending statistics from the A V equipment to the application developer over the Internet connection. The statistics includes information for the upgradeable engine the downloaded applications the A V user characteristics of the A V equipment and or characteristics habits or demographics of the A V user. The method includes forwarding at least some of those statistics from the application developer to a content provider or a manufacturer of the A V equipment and transmitting fee information between the application developer and the content provider or between the application developer and the manufacturer of the A V equipment.

These and other embodiments can optionally include one or more of the following features. The method can involve processing the processing module with the upgradeable engine. The processing can involve sharing processing resources for two or more processing modules when the two or more processing modules are used to interact with the upgradeable engine and adjusting the performance of A V equipment using the upgradeable engine and the processing module. The fee information can involve information for making arrangements for sending a fee from the application developer to the content provider. The application developer can make arrangements to pay the content provider or the manufacturer of the A V equipment. The method can involve sending an advertisement that promotes the applications of the application developer to the A V equipment for the A V user. The advertisement can be configured for presentation on the A V equipment. When A V content is purchased from the content provider by the A V user the advertisement can be sent with A V content from the content provider. When sending the processing module the method can involve sending the processing module for at least one of the plurality of downloadable applications from a first computer associated with the application developer over the Internet connection to A V equipment for the A V user. When sending the statistics the method can involve sending the statistics from the A V equipment to the first computer associated with the application developer over the Internet connection. When forwarding at least some of those statistics the method can involve forwarding at least some of those statistics from the first computer associated with the application developer to a second computer associated with the content provider or a third computer associated with the manufacturer of the A V equipment. When transmitting the fee information the method can involve transmitting the fee information between the first computer associated with the application developer and the second computer associated with the content provider or between the first computer associated with the application developer and the third computer associated with the manufacturer of the A V equipment. The method can involve the following processes utilizing multiple computers forwarding information from the second computer associated with the content provider to the first computer associated with the application developer regarding a type of content target audiences for A V content or market information determining at least one processing module from the first computer associated with the application developer to send to the A V equipment for the A V user based on the information from the second computer associated with the content provider and sending the at least one processing module over the Internet connection from the first computer associated with the application developer to the A V equipment for the A V user based on the information from the second computer associated with the content provider. The content provider can associate the A V content with an advertisement for the downloadable applications and promote the downloadable applications to the A V user along with the A V content that the content provider provides or develops for the A V user. The method can involve sending the fee information from the first computer associated with the application developer to the third computer associated with the manufacturer of the A V equipment. The fee information can also include information for making arrangements for sending a fee from the application developer to the manufacturer of the A V equipment. The method can include the following processes from multiple computers forwarding information from the third computer associated with the manufacturer of the A V equipment to the first computer associated with the application developer determining at least one processing module from the application developer to send to the A V equipment for the A V user based on the information from the manufacturer of the A V equipment and sending the at least one processing module over the Internet connection from the first computer associated with the application developer to the A V equipment for A V user based on the information from the third computer associated with the manufacturer of the A V equipment. The forwarded information can include data specification and or statistical information for the A V equipment. The method can include sending additional statistics related to the A V user to the first computer associated with the application developer over the Internet connection. The statistics can include and or related to user biometric information user ratings a user profile a viewing or listening schedule of the A V user and or a usage of downloaded applications. The method also can include sending A V content from the second computer associated with the content provider to the A V equipment for the A V user.

Any of the methods and techniques described herein can also be implemented in a system with one or more components an apparatus or device a machine a computer program product in software in hardware or in any combination thereof. For example the computer program product can be encoded on a computer readable medium and can include instructions to cause a data processing apparatus e.g. a data processor to perform one or more operations for any of the methods described herein.

To illustrate how these techniques can be implemented several example embodiments are depicted and described.

The computer system implements an upgradeable extensible audio and or video processing engine. The audio and or video processing engine may be implemented in software firmware hardware or some combination of software firmware or hardware. The audio and or video processing engine may be designed to perform basic or underlying audio and or video processing manipulations which may allow various audio and or video processing applications to be designed to run on the audio and or video processing engine and perform particular audio and or video processing functions. For example a speech clarity processing application may be designed to run on the processing engine and process audio information to improve the clarity of speech in the audio information. One or more examples of such an audio and or video processing engine are described below.

The audio and or video processing engine and applications implemented on computer can process audio and video A V information from one or more of the audiovisual components or to apply the audio and or video processing functions implemented by the applications to the A V information. The processed A V information may then be sent from the computer to an appropriate one or the audiovisual components or . The unprocessed A V information may be sent from an audiovisual component or across the routers and to the computer system and processed A V information may be sent from the computer system across the routers and to the appropriate audiovisual component or .

The computer system also implements for example a web interface . The web interface may allow a user to access for example a webpage from which the user can download and install audio and or video processing applications to update their home theater system . The web interface also may allow the user to access for example a webpage showing a user account and or a status of audio and or video processing applications that are present on the home theater system . User account information may be managed and stored at a computer and or a database provided at an application developer or provider. In some embodiments the application developer and the application provider may be the same entity. For example various audio and or video processing applications may be developed stored and or provided by computers and database systems from Dolby Laboratories Inc. of San Francisco Calif. The user s account can provide a list of all applications that have been purchased and or applications that are in current use by the user on the user s system. The user s account may also display new applications that the user can download based on the user s system and preferences. The web interface may be displayed for example on a monitor associated with the computer system or on the television or video monitor .

A user interface that provides user control of the audio and or video processing applications running on the audio and or video processing engine may be displayed on the television or video monitor . The user interface on the television or video monitor can be overlaid over an image from a movie program or show that may be playing on the television. For example the computer system may overlay the user interface on video information processed by the audio and or video processing engine and applications. The image may be a still picture or a motion picture. The user interface on the television or video monitor may be controlled by a remote control associated with the television the media device or the AVR system .

The system can include several components for a flexible upgradeable processing engine. The system can provide for real time processing of audio and video over HDMI or another type of network with audio video consumer electronic equipment. The audio video equipment may or may not have applications for the audio and or video processing engine installed when the audio video equipment was purchased by the user. However the system may allow a user to download and install audio and video applications for their electronic equipment.

While the audio and or video processing engine has been described as being implemented on the computer system the audio and or video processing engine may be implemented either additionally or alternatively on one or more of the television or video monitor the routers the AVR system or the media device .

In the GUI an image from a movie program or show is playing on the television. The image may be presented as a background image. The GUI may be displayed on top of the image in which the GUI may be partially transparent to allow the user to see the content that is playing or being displayed. Installed audio and or video processing applications can be shown on the left hand side of the image and a user can select one of the applications such as the audio volume leveling application for managing loudness variations between different content and audio sources e.g. Dolby Volume to control or otherwise interact with the application. Each application may have data for its own user interface within the GUI . For example a first panel for settings can allow the user to activate or deactivate the application . A second panel can provide a description of the application to the user. For instance in the example shown the description of the selected application explains that Dolby Volume improves the listening experience by leveling the volume across channels programs and content while preserving the full listening experience at any volume level. 

A user can use a controller e.g. a remote control for the television or some other component of the system to control the selection of the application and the settings for each application. In some embodiments the controller may be specific to the audio video engine running the software for the GUI . The user can explore activate and control the various applications that are installed in the system using the GUI .

A third panel is provided to provide visual feedback to the user to allow the user to visualize the settings or changes. The third panel may have charts graphs and data for settings that may change interactively with changes in the settings or changes in the content or media playback. For example if the audio leveling application is selected and the setting in the first panel is in the OFF position then the third panel can display charts and graphs for the playback channels with no leveling processing applied. If the setting in the first panel is placed in the MEDIUM position then the third panel can display charts and graphs for the playback channels with time and frequency dependent gains being applied to provide an audio leveling function. The playback data presented in the charts and graphs for the respective speakers may be moving interactively and or may use animation whenever the system is playing such as for an audio and gain adjustment readout for each speaker. For example the third panel in the GUI is illustrating the content level and audio gains adjustments being applied to 5.1 channels. A menu presented for the GUI may be presented that is interactive and intuitive for the user.

The GUI may vary from what is shown in . For example there may be a GUI that allows a user to display and or change a status of several applications simultaneously. There may be other GUIs linked to the main GUI to control other features or submenus. Any of the other GUIs may also provide real time interaction and information exchanges with applications working with the audio and or video engine.

When A V electronic equipment is manufactured it may be shipped for distribution and use with pre installed software for running various audio and or video processing applications. For example a television may be shipped with software for an audio and or video processing application e.g. Dolby Surround and may not be able to upgrade their audio video application or add recent newly developed audio video applications. The time from which applications are developed at the application developer to the time those applications are released in a product for sale in the marketplace can be appreciable. For example it may take over a year for a newly developed application to be released in a product. Embodiments relate to providing applications to the user as in the GUI enabling users to install the latest audio video applications for their electronic equipment without inconvenient delay. Hence new applications and technologies from the application developer can be released to users and users may be able to upgrade the functionality of their A V electronic equipment.

In the engine audio is transformed from the time domain to the frequency domain to the perceptual domain back to the frequency domain and back to the time domain. In particular the engine includes a forward Fast Fourier Transform FFT module a perceptual model module an inverse perceptual model module and an inverse FFT module . The forward FFT module produces a FFT representation of incoming audio data. In some embodiments the perceptual model module can model human hearing in which the model can transform audio into a representation that perceptualizes frequency and or represents how the brain perceives sound. The perceptual model module may take into account the nonlinearities and transformations of human hearing and sound as well as performing scaling and manipulation of the audio data. The inverse perceptual model module undoes the modeling and manipulations of the perceptual model module . The inverse FFT module performs an inverse FFT for the results from the inverse perceptual model module .

The applications interacting with the engine include a volume smoothing module e.g. Dolby Volume equalization filter module Application C and Application D . Rather than computing the appropriate signal representations themselves the applications and may instead retrieve the appropriate representation from the engine . For example volume smoothing and speech clarity process modules may use a perceptual representation which is derived from an FFT and an equalization module may use an FFT representation. Rather than each application individually computing the FFT and or perceptual representation the applications may access the appropriate representation from the engine and as a result the appropriate representation may be computed only once by the engine . This may reduce the computational complexity of the combined processes compared to the computational complexity if the processes each compute the appropriate representations.

The volume smoothing application addresses volume variations across both program content and program sources while simultaneously proving vibrant audio performance at all playback levels whether soft or loud. The volume smoothing application can operate on a perceptual representation that is retrieved from between the perceptual model module and the inverse perceptual model module of the engine . The volume smoothing application can automatically adjust the loudness of an audio signal by modifying the perceptual representation that is derived from the FFT representation.

The equalization filter application can retrieve from the engine an FFT representation modify the FFT representation to perform equalization and pass back the processed FFT representation to the engine at a point prior to the inverse FFT module . The engine may interact with other applications in addition to or instead of the applications shown in .

The engine may have other modules instead of or in addition to the modules shown in . For example a module for a hybrid Quadrature Mirror Filter QMF bank can be used instead of the Forward FFT module and module for an inverse hybrid QMF bank can be used instead of the inverse FFT module . Also there may be some processes that may be processed in the time domain and other processes that may be processed in the frequency domain. The number and type of process modules may be dynamically added to or removed from the engine based on the requirements for the processing resources of the system.

Other applications that can be used with the engine may include for example up mixing virtual sound dialog enhancement content adaptive equalization and acoustic environment compensation. In some embodiments the applications can reuse much of the software from the engine through a standard application programming interface API and the effort to port an application may only involve the software that modifies the engine. New applications can be developed and sent to existing consumer electronic products instead of only being available for electronic products during the manufacturing stage of the electronic product cycle. As a result a time for the new applications to reach the marketplace can be reduced since these applications can be brought to the market shortly after their development.

For example the computational costs for the pie chart may relate to a representation of a two channel playback system in which stereo content can be up mixed to 5.1 channels i.e. 6 channels using the processes related to the second application for creating a surround sound experience from any stereo two channel movie music TV or game audio source e.g. Dolby Pro Logic II . The computational costs are largest for the processing module for the first application when the engine is not used.

Embodiments use the engine to enable the computing resources of the processes to overlap share resources and or share information. For example an embodiment functions to level the six channels with the processing module for the surround sound application and uses the processing module for the application that delivers a surround sound experience from any pair of stereo speakers to effectuate virtual surround sound.

The applications in the embodiment that shares resources with the engine have processing modules for Dolby Pro Logic II Time Equalization Control Dolby Volume and Dialog Clarity . In this embodiment the processing module for Dolby Pro Logic II can receive data in the time domain and send data in the frequency domain . The processing modules for Time Equalization Control Dolby Volume and Dialog Clarity are in the frequency domain . The processing requirement for the module for Dolby Pro Logic II is 10 15 MIPS the module for Time Equalization Control is 5 MIPS the module for Dolby Volume is 30 MIPS and the module for Dynamic Equalization is approximately 0 10 MIPS. The total processing requirements for the embodiment is 45 MIPS to 60 MIPS which may represent as much as a two thirds savings in processing requirements in relation to embodiment . The processing modules and the corresponding processing requirements in are shown as an example of the savings in processing requirements by sharing resources and using the engine. The processing requirements processes and or processing savings may differ from what is shown in .

Part of the computational cost of the processing of the engine may involve the transforming time domain related data to the frequency domain and vice versa. In engine the frequency domain representation can be provided by an FFT and with an inverse operation returned to the time domain . In the engine is modified to use other frequency domain representations such as those of audio coders. In the forward FFT module and the inverse FFT module of are not included because the representations from those modules are replaced by the decoder s frequency representation. For example the engine can use a modified discrete cosine transform MDCT as used by some of the post processing modules as well as a pseudo quadrature mirror filter PQMF as used by high efficiency advanced audio coding HE AAC techniques. By directly utilizing the frequency domain representation of an audio decoder and the decoder s corresponding frequency to time transformation the total computational cost when the using engine may be reduced.

In some embodiments the decoder for audio can have a first decoding module that can take the encoded bitstream and then create a frequency representation of the signal. The engine can then pass the processed frequency representation data to the component of the decoder that fully translates the frequency domain audio data to the time domain for playback and reproduction over speakers or headphones.

In some embodiments the upgradeable engine can be used with a video decoder and an audio coder. In some embodiments the video data may be used with the engine for processing and may be transported in video by sending data in between video frames. The type of frames may also determine if data is sent in between video frames.

The engine framework can generate and maintain information and statistics regarding installed and or used applications for A V electronic equipment as well as information and statistics for the users of the A V electronic equipment. The engine framework may also receive and notify users of updates to their A V electronic equipment and provide for improved performance. The engine framework can assess the data or fingerprints of audio or video data to identify the contents of the audio or video data and use this information to improve the sound or image . For example the audio may be from an old recording or the video can be from an old movie and the engine framework can know which applications to use or install to improve the sound or picture quality .

The executive engine for metadata coordinates various metadata used in the engine framework . The metadata may provide information regarding the audiovisual components in a home theatre. For example the user s A V system may be a five year old plasma TV manufactured by a first electronic equipment manufacturer connected with a three year old A V receiver by a second electronic equipment manufacturer a six month old DVD player by a third electronic equipment manufacturer a one year old video game system for a fourth electronic equipment manufacturer and a two year old set of speakers by a fifth electronic equipment manufacturer. The metadata may include information regarding the characteristics of these components e.g. their age how the components operation varies with age their model their performance specifications their compatibility with other electronic equipment set up and operation of these components as well as usage information about these components e.g. how often they are used .

The metadata also may include information regarding the audio and or video processing applications such as for example customizable presets for the applications that depend on the specific components employed their age and or the environment in which the components are employed or other factors. For example some processing modules may accept two channels of audio data and create a 5.1 or larger number of channels. This type of module can be positioned first in line if the input is mono or stereo content and subsequent processing modules require multichannel audio input for processing such as a surround virtualizer.

In some embodiments some modules may create additional audio data with information about the content that can be used by other processing modules. This type of processing module should be placed at or near the front of the processing chain. For example one processing module may extract the voice dialog content from stereo inputs and create a three channel output e.g. left L right R and center C voice which could be useful to a downstream another component such as a Dolby Dialog Clarity component.

In some embodiments the metadata also may include information regarding the user e.g. biometric information such as hearing and or vision loss the environment in which the components are employed e.g. sound or light properties of the environment and or information regarding the type of audio or video content such as audio content from a CD or a DVD and the nature and or type of the content such as music movie dialog sports indoor activities or outdoor activities.

As described further below the executive engine may coordinate and employ the metadata to control aspects of the installed applications such as which applications are installed their processing order and or their settings. The executive engine may control the aspects of the applications for example to provide perceptually better audiovisual reproduction of content to provide processing within the available resources or to minimize the processing resources required.

In some embodiments the metadata may be used in a boot time configuration when the engine is first used and the system is activated or in other embodiments a run time configuration and used whenever the engine is operating. The metadata may be in a number of formats such as a binary data stream an Extensible Markup Language XML file encapsulated digital information. The metadata may be residing in the engine framework derived from another source over a network connection e.g. metadata from the application developer attached with the audio content or generated as the system configuration or user profile is developed.

The Auditory Scene Analysis ASA module can be used for detailed signal analysis of the audio data. Auditory Scene Analysis can refer to a specific type of audio signal analysis that identifies perceptually relevant elements of the audio that when known can result in significantly higher quality audio post processing. For example the ASA module inherent in Dolby Volume may identify those elements of the audio for which level changes are inappropriate such as sustained musical notes with decays. This is one example of many various auditory scene elements that can be detected and used to provide high quality post processing. The ASA module can perform audio analysis and provide information about the audio signal that may be utilized by a number of applications and also can be used as a shared resource between various applications similar to the signal representations in . In some embodiments the ASA module may have features that differ from the processing features of the applications such as complex signal analysis.

Each of the applications may have separate functionality for a graphical user interface GUI and the underlying processing modules for that application which implement the audio and or video processing for that application. For example Application A has a GUI to represent the application on a TV monitor in real time and also has a processing module for the engine framework . The GUI may be shown in the TV monitor and may have buttons for a user to select or deselect features of the application descriptions to the user to explain the purpose and function of the application settings that may be configured for particular electronic equipment and users and meter readings to show a measurement related to an audio or video quality. In some embodiments the GUI for the application can be common to the overall GUI for the system framework as in . In this aspect the GUI for an application may have a design and layout that is similar the GUI of other applications in which buttons and descriptions may have a similar layout. In other applications the format and layout of the meter readings may vary such as the meter readings for volume frequency response power noise peak responses average volume level and other readings for one or more audio channels.

The processing module for the application may include data signal analysis internal functional modules and API information . The data may include audio data and metadata as well as data for the settings the meter readings equipment and application usage information user data and data for manufacturer specifications of the electronic equipment. The processing module can use its own internal functional modules such as an application having a first functional module for audio for film a second functional module for audio for broadcast television a third functional module for DVDs and other functional modules for other types of audio. Because the processes can reuse much of the software and algorithms from the engine framework through a standard API each processing module may have API information for its application . In some embodiments the ASA in the engine may perform the signal analysis and in other embodiments the processing module for the application can perform the signal analysis.

In some embodiments the processing order e.g. the order of processing modules in a chain can be important for proper overall system performance and for the reduction of system resources and memory. Downloadable metadata can help to control the hierarchy and processing order of the engine and or its applications processing modules. In some embodiments the downloaded applications may also use security features when they are downloaded such as handshaking encryption verification and authentication.

In a second processing chain a system may have more limited resources for its A V configuration and or processing resources such as a small TV or laptop computer. In the second processing chain the system may only have the ability to have a maximum of two inputs and output channels for the speakers with a limited audio range. For this embodiment the processing module for process module B e.g. such as for Dolby Volume can proceed the processing module for process module A e.g. such as for Dolby Pro Logic II so that the processing module for process module B can address volume variations before the processing module for process module A provides a virtualized surround sound for the two channels of speakers. In some embodiments the processing order can have a higher number of processing modules than are shown in and the type and order of those processing modules can vary and or depend on a number of factors.

The processing order for processing modules of applications can also be determined by downloadable metadata . Downloadable metadata can include information pertaining to newly released algorithms which may require different processing orders than previously used. For example a new algorithm C may operate best between previous algorithms A and B which were previously ordered one after the other. The metadata can have information to arrange the processing order for the processing modules of applications. The processing order may also depend on the type of content e.g. DVD radio TV CD MP3 and the type of audio e.g. voice music television audio movie audio .

The processing order also can be configured dynamically in that new processing modules for new applications can be added to any point in a processing chain. For example a new processing module can be added between the processing module for Dolby Pro Logic IIx and the processing module for Dolby Volume in the processing chain of . The user may also have the option to determine or change the processing order based on user input with a GUI.

In some embodiments there can be a hierarchy for particular system configurations that can provide for the sharing of processing resources. The hierarchy can have levels based on an amount of processing modules in the processing chain and or the types of processing modules in the processing chain where each level may require a certain amount of processing resources. In some embodiments the hierarchy may represent the allowable chain of processing modules and the processing order may refer to the chain of processing. The allowable chain of processing may represent a chain of processing that is permissible for a particular system configuration in which some processing modules may not be able to be used in or inserted into particular points in some processing chains. In other embodiments the hierarchy can represent a preferred processing order for a given system configuration. For these embodiments for example the engine can determine a preferred processing order based on the type of electronic equipment in the system and the user preferences. In one example this determination of the preferred processing order may be based on communicating information with a database over the Internet to the application developer where the application developer can provide a solution for resource sharing based on a number of factors.

As an example of a hierarchy the first or second dynamic processing orders shown in may represent a two level hierarchy for two processing modules .

Instead of or in addition to determining the processing order based on resources as in the processing order can be determined based on other considerations such as a quality of audio for a particular A V system configuration. The processing order may also change if new applications are to be used and their processing modules need to be inserted into a particular position in the processing chain for best performance or quality. In some embodiments some processing modules can be processed in parallel in the same level of the hierarchy. For example a first and a second processing module can be processed in parallel a first level of a hierarchy and a third processing module can be processed in a second level of the hierarchy.

The configuration of the A V equipment also may be considered in the analysis . The configuration may involve how the A V equipment is configured with respect to other A V equipment in the system. The configuration may also involve having information on the input and output configuration such as a large screen liquid crystal display LCD television with five HDMI inputs 2.1 speakers two component A V port connections two composite A V port connections and three S video port connections. The configuration may also involve the physical aspects of the A V equipment such as wall mountable speakers with a thickness of less than five inches and limited audio capabilities.

The usage habits of the A V equipment may also be a factor . For example if the A V equipment is an often used Blu Ray disc player then applications may be downloaded for high quality audio and video performance. The characteristics of the user of the A V equipment also are considered in the analysis . For example a user profile may provide information about what type of content the user prefers or the type of audio set up the user prefers. For example the user may have a preference to listen to a particular type of music with a specified frequency response for multiple channels of speakers. The hearing and visual characteristics of the user may also be considered such as receiving information about the hearing capabilities of the user and using that information to develop an audio profile for the user to download specific applications to enhance the user s hearing.

After the factors are considered applications are selected based on the factors and downloaded to be used with the engine . In addition the factors can be used to adjust the settings of the downloaded applications. The applications can be built into and sold with the original hardware system and the performance of the A V electronic equipment can be enhanced based on one or more factors such as the factors in . When the applications are integrated the processing chain may be formed or adjusted to provide for resource sharing and or improved performance. When the applications are downloaded information can also be sent over the Internet to the content providers e.g. music company movie studio television station and or the A V equipment manufacturers to allow them to enhance future products and services as well as to develop effective promotions and advertisements to targeted customer groups .

In some embodiments the audio sensor may be located in proximity of the audio system and the light sensor may be located in proximity of the video system so that a user listening to audio or watching video can experience the added features of the downloaded applications. In some embodiments the sensors can be located in proximity to the A V equipment user and the systems may not be located in proximity to the A V equipment user. For example the sensors may be located near a LCD television and speakers and some processing equipment for the audio system and video system may be in another room. The audio engine and or video engine may facilitate downloading applications for use.

The audio system interacts with the audio engine which uses processes for an audio application and audio settings such as tuner and frequency response settings. The audio application can be for example an application for Dolby Volume or some other downloadable audio application to be used with the audio engine .

The video system interacts with the video engine which uses processes for a video application and video settings such as resolution and video setup settings for the A V equipment. The video application can be for example an application for some downloadable video application for the video engine . One video application e.g. Dolby Contrast can be for a video application for improving the picture quality of LCD televisions by employing LED backlighting and other techniques to locally dim backlight areas to match the brightness of the image. A second video application e.g. Dolby Contrast can enable LCD televisions to display true blacks and lifelike dynamic contrast while consuming less power. A third video application e.g. Dolby 3D Digital Cinema can be for a video application that allows the user to experience a three dimensional experience with sharp clear images.

In some embodiments the light sensor e.g. a photosensor can be used to detect whether a room is light or dark e.g. daytime nighttime bright dim and that information can be used to adjust the video settings order of the processing chain and or type and number of downloaded video applications. In other embodiments the audio sensor can be used to detect sound and noise and may be used to create an audio profile for a room automobile or airplane. The audio profile may be used by the downloadable audio applications to improve the sound of the A V equipment and to improve the quality of the sound of the content going to certain audio channels and speakers. In one example the volume of certain audio speakers can be adjusted based on the noise in the room or the sound of people talking in the room. A video profile may also be created based on the lighting and visual conditions of the viewing area. The audio or video profile may be stored in the audio system or video system a local personal computer a memory location e.g. memory on a cable TV box or shared with the application developer A V equipment manufacturer or content provider.

Applications can also be downloaded based on biometric characteristics of the user. For example the A V equipment user may use their personal computer to create a hearing profile that can test and model the hearing abilities of the user. Applications can be downloaded to correct for hearing loss as well as the loss of hearing at certain frequencies. The user may also get their hearing profile from hearing tests performed by an audiologist e.g. a healthcare professional specializing in the auditory senses . The hearing profile of the user can be stored on a memory device and can be used with the downloadable applications and engine to improve their hearing of sound from the speakers. There can be other profiles with information on the user such a user profile with the age of the user and the preferred audio and video content of the user. Information can be tracked and stored in a user profile on how often the user uses certain settings the time of day they use those settings the type of A V electronic equipment that is used e.g. a DVD player or a video player the type and usage of the downloaded applications. Statistics on the user and the user s habits e.g. how often an application is invoked can also be maintained in the user profile. The user profile can be stored in a database may be part of the engine framework of and may be part of a user account. There can be different user profiles for different users of the A V electronic equipment.

There can be profiles that include information for the A V electronic equipment. For example the A V electronic equipment may have customizable presets based on the type of A V electronic equipment being used e.g. equalization presets for particular types and brands of televisions speakers etc. and there can be presets that are determined and or based on the age of the A V equipment that takes into account how the performance of the A V equipment degrades over time e.g. color correcting a plasma television that loses color saturation over time .

The application developer can receive specific information on products that may not be publicly available such as data regarding the performance of the A V electronic equipment over time and any malfunctions recalls or incompatibilities with other equipment. Also the content providers can promote the applications of the application developer by placing advertisements and promotions with their content e.g. bundle or tie the software for the upgradeable engine and or applications with content such as movies television shows video clips or audio content . For example an advertisement can be displayed before a movie on a DVD or Blu Ray disc to inform consumers that they can purchase an application from the application developer for an enhanced viewing or listening experience of the content on their system. For example the content can be created with enhanced playback enabled by a particular type of application such as a 3D application for video.

Regarding the fee information when a customer purchases an application part of the profits of the purchase can be sent from the application developer or provider to the A V equipment manufacturers and or the content providers developers. The payment the application developer makes to the A V equipment manufacturers and the content providers can reward those entities for encouraging the commercialization and distribution of the software for the upgradeable engine and applications with their A V electronic equipment and A V content. Fee information and revenue can also be shared by the application developer with the A V equipment manufacturers who host or port the upgradeable engine and maybe some applications from the application developer on their A V electronic equipment. For example the A V equipment manufacturers can bundle or tie the upgradeable engine with the A V electronic equipment when the A V electronic equipment is manufactured or sold.

In some embodiments the amount of the fee can be based on an actual or estimated number of consumer purchases of applications and in other embodiments the fee can be determined based on information and or statistics that are shared between the entities. The fee information may refer to information related to a monetary exchange a payment an obligation or promise to make a payment a royalty rate or agreement a licensing arrangement or a bargained for exchange for a performance by at least one of the entities.

In some embodiments other consideration can be sent from the application developer or provider to the A V equipment manufacturers and or the content providers developers. In some embodiments the content provider developer can market advertise the applications of the application developer provider with the content and the application developer provider can promote and or market advertise various types of content from the content provider developer when the applications are used or being purchased by the user. The advertisements to promote the applications of the application developer may include graphics video and or audio and can be played on the A V equipment of the A V user. As described in the example embodiments and systems the data statistics instructions processing modules advertisements A V content and or fee fee information sent amongst the A V user application developer providers A V equipment manufacturers and or the content providers developers can be transmitted transformed and or processed with computers and computing systems associated with each of the entities.

The techniques can be used on one or more computers. One or more methods e.g. algorithms and or processes herein can be implemented with tied with employed on and or have data transformed with computers and or video audio display transmission processing apparatuses and playback systems. The computers described herein may be any kind of computer either general purpose or some specific purpose computer such as a workstation. The computer e.g. in may be e.g. an Intel or AMD based computer running Windows XP Vista or Linux or may be a Macintosh computer. An embodiment may relate to e.g. a handheld computer such as a PDA cell phone or laptop. The computer may also refer to machines or parts of a machine for image recording or reception processing storage and distribution of data in particular video or audio data.

Any combination of the embodiments described herein may be part of a video system and or audio system and its components. Any combination of the embodiments may be implemented in hardware and or software. For example any of the embodiments may be implemented with a computer program. In some instances the embodiments may be directed to a particular types of data such as video data or audio data.

Computer and or graphic programs may be written in C or Python or Java Brew or any other programming language. The programs may be resident on a storage medium e.g. magnetic or optical e.g. the computer hard drive a removable disk or media such as a memory stick or SD media wired or wireless network based or Bluetooth based or other Network Attached Storage NAS or other fixed or removable medium. The programs may also be run over a network for example with a server or other machine sending communications to the local machine which allows the local machine to carry out the operations described herein. The network may include a storage area network SAN .

Although only a few embodiments have been described in detail above other embodiments are possible. It should be appreciated that embodiments may encompass equivalents and substitutes for one or more of the example techniques described herein. The present specification describes specific examples to accomplish a more general goal in another way. This description should be understood to represent example embodiments and the claims following are intended to cover any equivalent modification or alternative.

Embodiments of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer program products e.g. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a computer readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. The computer readable medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a memory device or a combination of one or more of them. The term data processing apparatus encompasses all apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a graphical system a database management system an operating system or a combination of one or more of them.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows and figures described and depicted in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or another programmable logic device PLD such as a microcontroller or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor can receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer can also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio player a Global Positioning System GPS receiver to name just a few. Computer readable media suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and discs for CD DVD and Blu Ray BD . The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user some embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube LCD liquid crystal display or plasma display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a selector e.g. a pointing device a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

Some embodiments of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an embodiment of the subject matter described is this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this disclosure contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular embodiments. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate embodiments can also be implemented in combination in a single embodiment. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single embodiment can also be implemented in multiple embodiments separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the embodiments described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all embodiments and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software or hardware product or packaged into multiple software or hardware products.

The term algorithm can refer to steps methods processes schemes procedures operations programs guidelines techniques sequences and or a set of rules or instructions to achieve the results described herein. For example an algorithm can be a set of audio and or video processing instructions for a hardware and or software video and or audio processor. The disclosed algorithms e.g. such as in the example figures and functional modules can be related to and or tied to video and or audio and can be generated implemented associated and or employed in video related and or audio related systems and or any devices machines hardware and or articles of manufacture for the transformation processing compression storage transmission reception testing playback calibration display and or any improvement in any combination for video data and or audio data.

1. A audio video A V system comprising an audio video A V component configured to generate audio or video data one or more processing devices configured to implement an audio or video processing engine configured to process the audio or video data to generate one or more different domain representations of the audio or video data and one or more audio or video processing applications that are each configured to access one or more of the different domain representations of the audio or video data and to perform audio or video processing on the one or more accessed domain representations of the audio or video data wherein each of the one or more processing applications access and process the domain representations independently of each other.

2. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 1 wherein the one or more processing devices are further configured to download the one or more applications from a server.

3. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 1 wherein the one or more processing devices are further configured to present an interface for a user to select one or more of the applications for downloading.

4. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 1 wherein the one or more processing devices are configured to present an interface to an A V user of the A V component the interface being configured to allow the A V user to control settings for the one or more audio or video processing applications wherein the interface comprises one or more panels for each audio or video processing application wherein the one or more panels allow at least one of functions that comprises a first panel to activate or de active the application a second panel to provide a description of the application to the A V user and a third panel to present the settings to the A V user.

5. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 4 wherein each audio or video processing application comprises a processing module to interact with the audio or video processing engine and application data for the interface for presentation of control and description information for the application on the one or more panels.

6. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 4 wherein the interface is overlayed over at least an image of video content that is playing or playable in a background.

7. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 1 wherein the A V system comprises a router coupled to the A V component.

8. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 7 wherein the router includes one or more of the processing devices.

9. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 7 wherein a computer is coupled to the router and the computer includes one or more of the processing devices.

10. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 1 wherein the A V component includes one or more of the processing devices.

11. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 1 wherein the A V component comprises a video display a digital video player a television tuner an audio video receiver AVR system a satellite receiver or a cable television box.

12. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 1 wherein the domain representations comprise a frequency domain and a perceptual domain.

13. A method comprising executing an audio or video processing engine configured to process audio or video data to generate one or more different domain representations of the audio or video data and executing one or more audio or video processing applications configured to access one or more of the different domain representations of the audio or video data and to perform audio or video processing on the one or more accessed domain representations of the audio or video data.

14. The method of enumerated example embodiment 13 further comprising downloading one of the audio or video processing applications from an application developer using a user account wherein each downloadable audio or video processing application further comprises data for a graphical user interface GUI for presentation on an A V component and installing the downloaded audio or video processing application to be used with the engine.

15. The method of enumerated example embodiment 14 further comprising using the GUI to receive a user input to adjust the performance of the A V component in response to the user input adjusting the performance of the A V component and presenting a representation of the adjustment to the performance of the A V component in the GUI.

16. The method of enumerated example embodiment 13 wherein the audio or video processing application comprises a processing module wherein the method further comprises sharing processing resources when two or more processing modules are processed in a frequency domain with the engine and wherein the sharing of processing resources comprises reuse of processes with the engine.

17. The method of enumerated example embodiment 16 wherein the processing in the frequency domain utilizing one or more transforms comprising a Fast Fourier Transform FFT a hybrid Quadrature Mirror Filter QMF bank a discrete cosine transform DCT a modified discrete cosine transform MDCT a Quadrature Mirror Filter QMF a pseudo quadrature mirror filter PQMF or a modified FFT representation.

18. The method of enumerated example embodiment 16 wherein the processing in the frequency domain utilizes a frequency domain representation of a decoder wherein the processing in the frequency domain further utilizes a frequency to time domain transformation of the decoder.

19. The method of enumerated example embodiment 13 wherein the audio or video processing comprises a transformation of the audio or video data from a time domain to a frequency domain processing with the engine the transformed audio or video data with the two or more audio or video processing applications having processing modules in the frequency domain and a transformation of the processed audio or video data from the frequency domain to the time domain.

20. The method of enumerated example embodiment 19 wherein at least one of the processing modules is configured for processing in the time domain and in the frequency domain.

21. The method of enumerated example embodiment 13 further comprising adjusting the performance of an A V component by providing functionality for the A V component in addition to the functionality of the A V component at the time of manufacture wherein the A V component comprises a video display a digital video player a television tuner an audio video receiver AVR system a satellite receiver or a cable television box.

22. The method of enumerated example embodiment 13 further comprising adjusting an A V component in regards to one or more factors wherein the one or more factors comprises a setting of the A V component a usage history of the A V component a configuration of the A V component a resource sharing requirement for the A V component a performance requirement for the A V component an amount of processing resources a level of quality of the A V component a type of content to be played on the A V system or a number of processing modules to process.

23. A audio video A V system comprising one or more processing devices one or more storage devices storing instructions that when executed by the one or more processing devices cause the one or more processing devices to implement one or more audio or video processing applications for the A V system wherein each of the applications comprises a processing module and data for a graphical user interface GUI for presentation on the A V system wherein each application is configured to adjust a performance or a setting of the A V equipment an audio or video processing engine configured to interact with the processing modules for the applications wherein the audio or video processing engine is configured to share processing resources among two or more of the processing modules.

24. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 23 wherein the audio or video processing engine comprises an audio signal analysis ASA module for signal analysis of audio or video data wherein the ASA module is further configured for sharing processing resources among the applications.

25. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 23 further comprising metadata regarding the applications and the upgradeable engine wherein the metadata includes information regarding statistics associated with the engine the applications a user of the A V system characteristics of the A V system or characteristics of the user wherein the engine is configured to manage the metadata.

26. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 25 wherein the characteristics of the A V system comprises an age a model a performance specification an amount of usage a type of content used a performance setting an amount of processing resources an input or output configuration or a compatibility of the A V equipment of the A V system.

27. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 25 wherein the characteristics of the user comprises an age of the user a habit of the user a number of downloaded applications from the user a type of downloaded applications from the user or data from a profile of the user based on a user profile or a user account.

28. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 25 wherein the upgradeable engine is configured to use at least one of the applications with the metadata for enhancing a quality of a sound or an image for the A V system over the quality of the sound or the image when used without the application.

29. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 25 wherein the GUI comprises data to present one or more buttons for selecting or de selecting of the application a description of a purpose or a function of the application settings for configuring the A V system and a meter reading to present a measurement of a unit related to an audio or video quality.

30. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 29 wherein the GUI comprises data for each application to conform to a similar layout or design format and wherein the processing modules share a common application programming interface API .

31. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 25 wherein each of the processing modules for each application comprises A V data signal analysis modules functional modules and application programming interface API information.

32. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 23 wherein the applications comprise downloadable applications and wherein the A V system further comprises a sound sensor coupled to the A V system to detect sound conditions around the A V system and a light sensor coupled to the A V system to detect light conditions around the A V system and wherein the upgradeable engine is configured to manage downloaded applications and adjust the performance or the setting of the A V equipment based on the light and sound conditions.

33. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 32 further comprising a user account that comprises information for the A V user the A V system and the downloaded and downloadable applications wherein the GUI is configured to manage the information for the user account with the A V user and an application developer wherein the A V system is configured to send statistics to the application developer over an Internet connection regarding the upgradeable engine the downloaded applications the A V user characteristics of the A V system or characteristics of the A V user.

34. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 32 wherein the A V system is configured to use data for the light and sound conditions to download the downloadable applications and adjust the performance or the setting of the A V equipment.

35. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 32 further comprising a light and sound profile for the light and sound conditions of the A V equipment wherein the light and sound profile is stored in one of the storage devices.

36. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 32 further comprising a biometric profile of the A V user wherein the A V system is configured to further adjust the performance or the setting of the A V equipment based on the biometric profile of the A V user wherein the biometric profile of the A V user comprises at least a hearing profile of the A V user.

37. A method comprising accessing a plurality of processing modules for a plurality of downloadable applications wherein each downloadable application comprises at least one processing module and data for a graphical user interface GUI and wherein each processing module is configured to interact with an upgradeable engine to adjust a performance or a setting of an audio and video A V equipment and arranging an order of two or more of the processing modules in a processing chain to share processing resources to reduce a processing requirement of the A V equipment or to enhance a level of performance of the A V equipment.

38. The method of enumerated example embodiment 37 wherein the arranging of the order of the two or more processing modules comprises using metadata to control the processing order.

39. The method of enumerated example embodiment 38 wherein the metadata relates to a processing requirement or a level of performance.

40. The method of enumerated example embodiment 37 wherein the order of the processing modules comprises an order in which the processing modules are processed with the upgradeable engine wherein the processing order of the processing modules is dynamically adjustable based on one or more factors.

41. The method of enumerated example embodiment 40 wherein the one or more factors comprises a type an age a performance specification or a condition of the A V equipment an input configuration or output configuration on the A V equipment an amount of available processing resources a number of processing modules to process a type of processing module user requirements a level of a quality of the A V equipment a type of content to be played by the A V equipment a processing module to add to the processing chain user input information from a user profile a usage history of the A V equipment a predefined processing order for a processing chain or information downloaded from an application developer.

42. The method of enumerated example embodiment 37 wherein the arranging the order of two or more of the processing modules is based upon a predefined processing order for a configuration of the A V equipment wherein the predefined processing order is downloaded from an application developer.

43. The method of enumerated example embodiment 37 wherein the arranging the order of two or more of the processing modules comprises assigning each of the processing modules to a level of a hierarchy of a processing chain for each level of the hierarchy evaluating a processing cost or a processing resource requirement to determine if the processing cost or the processing resource requirement is lower if the processing module in that level is rearranged into another level of the hierarchy and if the processing cost or the processing resource requirement is lower if the processing module is positioned in the other level of the hierarchy then rearranging the order of the hierarchy to position the processing module in the level that produces the lower processing cost.

44. A audio video A V system comprising downloadable applications for an A V system wherein each of the downloadable applications comprises a processing module and data for a graphical user interface GUI for presentation on the A V system wherein each downloadable application is configured to adjust a performance or a setting of the A V equipment an upgradeable engine configured to interact with the processing modules for the downloadable applications wherein the upgradeable engine is configured to share processing resources in the A V system for the processing modules and wherein the upgradeable engine is configured to manage downloaded applications and adjust the performance or the setting of the A V equipment based on one or more factors.

45. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 44 further comprising a user account that comprises information for the A V user the A V system and the downloaded and downloadable applications wherein the GUI is configured to manage the information for the user account with the A V user and an application developer wherein the A V system is configured to send statistics to the application developer over an Internet connection regarding the upgradeable engine the downloaded applications the A V user characteristics of the A V system or characteristics of the A V user.

46. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 44 wherein the one or more factors comprise a type of A V equipment an input configuration of the A V equipment an output configuration of the A V equipment a specification of the A V equipment a level of quality of the A V equipment or a usage history of the A V equipment.

47. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 44 wherein the one or more factors comprise an amount of processing power available for the A V system a number of applications for processing a type of application for processing or a type of application available for downloading.

48. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 44 wherein the one or more factors comprise a type of A V content to be played on the A V system a user preference or a user input.

49. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 44 wherein the one or more factors comprise an age of the A V equipment or a level of degradation of performance of the A V equipment over time.

50. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 49 wherein at least one of the applications is configured to correct for the level of degradation of performance of the A V equipment.

51. The A V system of enumerated example embodiment 44 further comprising a biometric profile of the A V user wherein the A V system is configured to further adjust the performance or the setting of the A V equipment based on the biometric profile of the A V user wherein the biometric profile of the A V user comprises at least a hearing profile of the A V user.

52. A method for audio and video A V equipment the method comprising sending a processing module for at least one of a plurality of downloadable applications from an application developer over an Internet connection to A V equipment for an A V user wherein each downloadable application comprises at least one processing module and wherein each downloadable application is configured to interact with an upgradeable engine to adjust a performance or a setting of the A V equipment sending statistics from the A V equipment to the application developer over the Internet connection the statistics comprising information for the upgradeable engine the downloaded applications the A V user characteristics of the A V equipment or characteristics habits or demographics of the A V user forwarding at least some of those statistics from the application developer to a content provider or a manufacturer of the A V equipment and transmitting fee information between the application developer and the content provider or between the application developer and the manufacturer of the A V equipment.

53. The method of enumerated example embodiment 52 further comprising processing the processing module with the upgradeable engine wherein the processing comprises sharing processing resources for two or more processing modules when the two or more processing modules are used to interact with the upgradeable engine and adjusting the performance of A V equipment using the upgradeable engine and the processing module.

54. The method of enumerated example embodiment 52 wherein sending the fee information comprises information for making arrangements for sending a fee from the application developer to the content provider.

55. The method of enumerated example embodiment 52 further comprising sending an advertisement that promotes the applications of the application developer to the A V equipment for the A V user wherein the advertisement is configured for presentation on the A V equipment.

56. The method of enumerated example embodiment 55 wherein when A V content is purchased from the content provider by the A V user the advertisement is sent with A V content from the content provider.

57. The method of enumerated example embodiment 52 wherein sending the processing module comprises sending the processing module for at least one of the plurality of downloadable applications from a first computer associated with the application developer over the Internet connection to A V equipment for the A V user sending the statistics comprises sending the statistics from the A V equipment to the first computer associated with the application developer over the Internet connection forwarding at least some of those statistics comprises forwarding at least some of those statistics from the first computer associated with the application developer to a second computer associated with the content provider or a third computer associated with the manufacturer of the A V equipment and transmitting the fee information comprises transmitting the fee information between the first computer associated with the application developer and the second computer associated with the content provider or between the first computer associated with the application developer and the third computer associated with the manufacturer of the A V equipment.

58. The method of enumerated example embodiment 57 further comprising forwarding information from the second computer associated with the content provider to the first computer associated with the application developer regarding a type of content target audiences for A V content or market information determining at least one processing module from the first computer associated with the application developer to send to the A V equipment for the A V user based on the information from the second computer associated with the content provider and sending the at least one processing module over the Internet connection from the first computer associated with the application developer to the A V equipment of the A V user based on the information from the second computer associated with the content provider.

59. The method of enumerated example embodiment 58 wherein the content provider associates the A V content with an advertisement for the downloadable applications and promotes the downloadable applications to the A V user along with the A V content that the content provider provides or develops for the A V user.

60. The method of enumerated example embodiment 57 further comprising sending the fee information from the first computer associated with the application developer to the third computer associated with the manufacturer of the A V equipment wherein sending the fee information comprises information for making arrangements for sending a fee from the application developer to the manufacturer of the A V equipment.

61. The method of enumerated example embodiment 57 further comprising forwarding information from the third computer associated with the manufacturer of the A V equipment to the first computer associated with the application developer the forwarded information comprising data specification and statistical information for the A V equipment determining at least one processing module from the application developer to send to the A V equipment for the A V user based on the information from the manufacturer of the A V equipment and sending the at least one processing module over the Internet connection from the first computer associated with the application developer to the A V equipment for A V user based on the information from the third computer associated with the manufacturer of the A V equipment.

62. The method of enumerated example embodiment 57 further comprising sending additional statistics related to the A V user to the first computer associated with the application developer over the Internet connection the statistics comprising user biometric information user ratings a user profile a viewing or listening schedule of the A V user or a usage of downloaded applications.

63. The method of enumerated example embodiment 62 further comprising sending A V content from the second computer associated with the content provider to the A V equipment for the A V user.

The techniques and systems described herein can be combined with and or tied to other multimedia applications such as graphics text and related data as well as biometric and environmental data. One or more embodiments of the various types of formulations presented in this disclosure can take into account various display processing audio playback and or distortion characteristics. In some aspects the type and order of processing can be partially or wholly decided based on any combination of system complexity channels and distortion metrics. Various embodiments herein can apply to H.264 AVC and any other video and image coding methods and related audio. The concepts herein can also be extended to and applied in multi dimensional video such as 3 D video. Particular embodiments of the disclosure have been described other embodiments are within the scope of the following claims.

