---

title: Monitoring and control systems and methods
abstract: A system and a method for controlling and monitoring a system within a facility are disclosed. The system includes a facility component configured to include at least one control point configured to be disposed within a facility and to monitor and control at least one element of the system within the facility; a network component configured to be communicatively coupled to the facility component and configured to process information received from the at least one control point; a remote client component configured to be communicatively coupled to the network component and configured to provide monitoring and control of the facility via the network component and the facility component. The remote client component is configured to receive processed data from the network component and generate instructions to the control point via the network component.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08781633&OS=08781633&RS=08781633
owner: 
number: 08781633
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20100413
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 212 800 to Fata et al. filed Apr. 15 2009 and entitled Building Management System and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 339 335 to Fata filed Mar. 3 2010 and entitled Monitoring and Control Systems and Methods incorporates the disclosure of the above referenced applications herein by reference in their entireties.

The present invention relates to communications systems and methods for monitoring and or controlling a multitude of functionalities within various facilities and or buildings. More particularly the present invention relates to communications systems and methods for remotely monitoring and or controlling a plurality of building functions relating to various utility security maintenance etc. systems within a single building and or a plurality of buildings. Even more particularly the present invention relates to communication systems and methods for remotely monitoring and controlling various functionalities including sensors alarms and or other devices within a facility and or a plurality of facilities

In some embodiments the present invention relates to systems and methods that can be configured to enable remote management of building systems and sub systems such as HVAC boilers lighting electrical systems security systems and any other types of systems in a building and or buildings. The present invention can be further configured to provide a monitoring and command interface to any building system that in some embodiments can be configured to use LonTalk and or Bacnet protocols or any other protocols for communication.

Today s buildings whether residential commercial medical or otherwise are sustained through operation of various utility systems. Through operation of such systems electricity heat HVAC water lighting security and other necessities are typically provided to the buildings. Each system may include various electrical mechanical and human components that ensure proper operation of such system. Some conventional system are controlled by human operators and thus require maintenance of staff on site or on call to control maintain and otherwise operate the systems. Others may be controlled automatically or through a combination of automatic and human control. Such systems force building owners to extend additional resources and costs in order to maintain proper operation of these systems as well as account for any human errors that may result in improper operation of the systems. This may be costly as one overlooked system malfunction can lead to a whole host of problems that will need to be fixed.

Further many conventional systems are not capable of remotely controlling multiple buildings having multiple building functionalities using a single monitor and control device and be adaptable to various control interfaces that are used by the buildings and building owners.

Thus there is a need to provide a system and a method for monitoring and controlling various functionalities within a facility building and or facilities buildings using a single monitor and control device where such monitoring and control functions are configured to be adaptable to various system and or building environments.

In some embodiments the present invention relates to a system for controlling and monitoring a system within a facility. The system includes a facility component configured to include at least one control point configured to be disposed within a facility and to monitor and control at least one element of the system within the facility a network component configured to be communicatively coupled to the facility component and configured to process information received from the at least one control point a remote client component configured to be communicatively coupled to the network component and configured to provide monitoring and control of the facility via the network component and the facility component. The remote client component is configured to receive processed data from the network component and generate instructions to the control point via the network component.

In some embodiments the present invention relates to a method for controlling and monitoring a system within a facility using a communications system having a facility component configured to include at least one control point configured to be disposed within a facility and to monitor and control at least one element of the system within the facility a network component configured to be communicatively coupled to the facility component and configured to process information received from the at least one control point a remote client component configured to be communicatively coupled to the network component and configured to provide monitoring and control of the facility via the network component and the facility component. The remote client component is configured to receive processed data from the network component and generate instructions to the control point via the network component. The method includes establishing communication between the system within the facility and the network component establishing communication between the network component and the remote client component receiving information from the user concerning operation of the system within the facility using the network component and the facility component monitoring and controlling operation of the system within the facility based on the received information.

In some embodiments the present invention relates to a computer program product stored on a computer readable medium for use with a computer configured to monitor and control a system within a facility using a communications system described above the computer program product comprising computer readable instructions for causing the computer to establish communication between the system within the facility and the network component establish communication between the network component and the remote client component receive information from the user concerning operation of the system within the facility using the network component and the facility component monitor and control operation of the system within the facility based on the received information.

In some embodiments the present invention relates to a system for controlling and monitoring a system within a facility. The system includes an access server configured to communicate with the facility a user server configured to communicate with the access server and further configured to receive data from a user. Based on the processed received data the building access server is configured to monitor and control the system within the facility.

In some embodiments the present invention relates to a method for controlling and monitoring a system within a facility using a system having an access server configured to communicate with the facility a user server configured to communicate with the access server and further configured to receive data from a user based on the processed received data the building access server is configured to monitor and control the system within the facility. The method includes establishing communication between the system within the facility and the access server establishing communication between the access server and the user server authenticating a user with the user server receiving information from the user concerning operation of the system within the facility using the access server monitoring and controlling operation of the system within the facility based on the received information.

In the following description the terms building and facility along with their plural counterparts will be used interchangeably and as can be understood by one having ordinary skill in the art will be given their broadest possible interpretation. For example a building can be a single story one room facility or a multi story multi floor multi room facility and vice versa . Each such facility may have a single or multiple systems and subsystems that are configured to provide various functionality and or functionalities that are used by the building s .

In some embodiments the present invention relates to communications systems and methods that allow users to communicate with buildings via communications network s or service s . An exemplary communications system includes a building or a plurality of buildings having a plurality of systems and or subsystems e.g. electrical water oil gas security HVAC heat etc. having various sensory control devices coupled to them that provide various data concerning their operation and configured to implement various monitor control functions thereby adjusting operation of such systems and or subsystems a user control device configured to allow a user to monitor control operation of the systems subsystems through various communications equipment that can be coupled whether mechanically electrically wirelessly etc. to the sensory control device and or the user control device.

The communications system is configured to operate using the following hierarchy of entities and their relationships listed from highest point to lowest point 

In some embodiments the building component can be configured to include a single building facility and or a plurality of buildings facilities a b c along with corresponding communications equipment and infrastructure that are configured to communicate with the network component . The network component can be configured to include various communications infrastructure and or database components that are configured to provide various functionalities including but not limited to communications storage reporting operation and any other components that are configured to provide various functionalities for the system . The remote client component can be configured to include various mobile applications and or web applications or any other applications that can be configured to provide a user with an ability to monitor and control various buildings facilities in the building component . The following is a more detailed description of the components and their constituents and operation of the system .

As stated above the communications system is configured to allow users to monitor control and or manage a wide range of building functionalities through a web interface or via mobile devices which are shown in the remote client component . For example in some embodiments the user s can remotely manage HVAC access security lighting electrical heat and other systems through the remote client component . In some embodiments the remote client component s mobile applications can be configured to include Apple s iPhone application Verizon Wireless Android application Blackberry application and or any other type of wireless device application. In some embodiments the remote client component s web application s can be configured to include a PC console an Administrator console a platform manager console and can be configured to be operated from a personal computer that can include a monitor a processor a keyboard a mouse and or any other components . As can be understood by one having ordinary skill in the art the present invention is not limited to the above referenced remote client components and can include any suitable device including but not limited to PC telephone wireless telephone blackberry smartphone iPod iPhone iPad Palm device touchscreen device or any other desired device.

As can be understood by one having ordinary skill in the art the network component can be configured to be any network including but not limited to local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN Internet extranet intranet or any other local and or remote type network that can be configured to operate in accordance with design features of the communication system . In some embodiments the network component can be configured to operate and or reside outside the building component and or the remote client component . Further in some embodiments the network component can be also configured to include computational elements of the system as well as end user applications interfaces such as web interface s and or application s on a mobile device for connecting to the communications system .

Referring to various components of system are configured to communicate with one another as well as exchange various data commands signals etc. The data exchange between the components occurs in an upstream and downstream fashion. In some embodiments upstream communication implies data signals and or commands that are configured to flow up to or along a communication path whether wired or wireless toward a building facility downstream communication implies data signals and or commands that are configured to flow down to or along a communication path whether wired or wireless toward a user and or an object or a component in the network component . As can be understood by one having ordinary skill in the art the communications between components in the system can be upstream downstream and or upstream downstream. Elements of various components can be configured to be controlled by the user system components and or various combinations thereof.

As shown in the building component is configured to include at least one building a b c . Each building includes control points and control panels . Each control point represents a communication device e.g. a sensor a detector etc. that is coupled to or represents an element of or an actual particular system within a building such as electrical lighting heat oil gas HVAC security etc. Control panels are configured to communicate with control points to receive transmit data from to the control points . For example a control point can be a sensor installed on a boiler s temperature gauge and can be configured to transmit temperature of hot water within the boiler whereas another control point can be installed on a burner ignition that is configured to receive a command to turn on the ignition if the water temperature within the boiler falls below a predetermined threshold. As can be understood by one skilled in the art other types of control points and respective communications can be provided. The building component further includes a router a building server and a control server . These components are configured to be communicatively coupled to one another as well as various elements within the network component and elements of the buildings . In some embodiments each building can be configured to have a separate router building server and control server . In alternate embodiments a single router a single building server and a single server can be configured to control a at least one or a plurality of buildings .

Prior to communications system becoming operational control points and control panel are installed in the various identified utility security or other systems located within buildings. The control points are configured to be installed at any point within the identified building system that the user desires to control e.g. lighting door open close alarm boiler thermostat etc. . As can be understood by one having ordinary skill in the art each identified system can be configured to have a plurality of control points disposed at various locations within the system and or several control points can be disposed at one location in the identified system and configured to measure detect sense read etc. various data associated with the location or element of the identified system at which such control point is installed. The control point can be a combination of a location element etc. of the identified system as well as a detector sensor reader etc. that is installed on such location element etc. of the identified system. Along with the installation of the control points a control panel is installed in the building that is configured to communicate with the control points that is the control panel is configured to transmit receive data instructions to and from the control points and to transmit receive data from other components in the communications system as will be detailed below. As can be understood by one skilled in the art exemplary control panels can be an ELK panel manufactured by Elk Products Inc. Hildebran N.C. USA or a BrightBlue panel manufactured by Ingersoll Rand Plc. Dublin Ireland or any other panel suitable for the purposes of the communications system . In some embodiments each control panel can include various identification information including but not limited to control panel type e.g. Elk BrightBlue local area network public IP address network security information as well as any other information that may be used for providing access to the building from the communications system . As can be understood by one skilled in the art there can be more than one control panel installed in the building .

In some embodiments during a building user setup procedure the communications system specifically the control server is configured to connect via the building server and a local area network to the building s local control panel to obtain a listing of all control points and or devices currently configured in the control panel . In some embodiments the control panel is installed first along with the control points devices and the control points devices are communicatively linked with the control panel. The list of control points can then be used to populate the control server with a corresponding listing of control points named according to a predetermined convention. Once a listing of control points in a building is acquired and mapped to the control server validity of the listed control points is verified. Such process can be manual semi automatic automatic and or a combination of the above. Control points that are listed that may be non operational e.g. not actually connected or labeled incorrectly etc. can either be deleted or held back from the next step. In some embodiments once validated the list of control points can be used to generate an intermediate control point definition file or an intermediate file that describes the configuration of control points in a specific building .

In some embodiments each control point can be configured to be assigned to at least one of the following 1 a zone which can correspond to a physical region associated with the building e.g. a floor a room a hallway a basement outside garden roof etc. 2 an operational function s e.g. heating HVAC lighting security humidity level etc. and 3 a group s which can be user defined collection s of points or a point that are configured to provide an end user interaction with the operational function s . In some embodiments initial zone system group information can be assigned to the listed control points in the intermediate file. The intermediate file can be transformed or translated into a final Building XML Definition File which is an XML format file used to provide configuration information for various components of the communication system . Such process can be performed manually semi automatically and or automatically.

In some embodiments control points can be assigned to sensors detectors readers controllers and or control devices. Such devices can be actual devices that are used to sense monitor and or control various building functionalities and or operations. These may include but are not limited to temperature sensors thermostats motion detectors magnetic door locks etc. In some embodiments the building owner can be responsible for maintaining such devices. Because control points are already disposed on the building devices which they monitor sensor and or control there is no upstream communication associated with these points. However the control points are configured to communicate with a respective control panel to which such control points are assigned and or control server . Communication with the control server is accomplished directly or via the control panel .

As stated above building can be configured to include at least one control panel . In some embodiments the control panel s can be device s that provide central distribution and or connection location for individual control points within a building . An example of a control panel is an ELK panel. Other examples include a BrightBlue panel dedicated HVAC control panels manufactured by Trane Inc. Siemens AG lighting control panels manufactured by Lutron Electronics Inc. and others. In some embodiments control panels can be configured to provide local functionality and or control over building functionalities and or operations of its various systems and subsystems e.g. HVAC electricity lighting security etc. . In some embodiments the control panel can be configured to include software or other means for the user to initialize update or otherwise manage the control panel . In some embodiments the control panel can be managed by the building owner.

The control panel is configured to communicate upstream with various control points assigned to individual sensors devices e.g. thermostats lighting controls temperature monitor etc. On the downstream the control panel is configured to communicate with the control server . Such communication can be on a direct or indirect basis i.e. directly for standard protocols and or indirectly for non standard protocols which included but are not limited to Elk M1 ASCII protocol Bright Blue XML RPC and others. Additionally the control panel is configured to communicate on the downstream path with the building server . In some embodiments the control panel can be configured to receive and or transmit various data and or commands that is used to implement monitoring and control of the control points .

The building component is further configured to include a control server . The control server is configured to provide an interface to standard building control protocols. For example such protocols include but are not limited to Bacnet Lontalk and Modbus. As can be understood by one having ordinary skill in the art other protocols are possible. The control server is configured to provide for onsite collection and management of data generated by a control point . In some embodiments a gateway is configured to poll the control server to collect data and submit operator or automated commands to the building control system. In the case of a building with standard protocols as listed above the control server can be configured to communicate directly with a compatible control panel or individual device or control point . However if the control panel does not support one of the standard protocols then custom software can be configured to manage communication between the control server and the control panel where such software can be configured to reside on the building server . Referring to the control server is configured to communicate with control panel and or specific control point if communicating directly with a point on an upstream path. Additionally the control server is also configured to communicate with the building server to account for any non standard control panel communication. On the downstream path the control server is configured to communicate with the building server in some embodiments for proxy purposes only and the gateway . In some embodiments the gateway is configured to retrieve send control point data from to the control server via secure communication channel provided by the building server . The communication can include various data e.g. sensor readings detected information and or other data as well as commands.

The building server is configured to provide several functions including communication between the building component and the network component . In some embodiments the building server s function can include 

The building server is configured to communicate on an upstream communication path with the control server when standard protocols are implemented. Alternatively the building server is configured to communicate with the control panel or specific control point when non standard protocols are implemented. On the downstream communications path the building server is configured to communicate with the gateway and is further configured to connect to the building via a secure connection. This communication channel can be configured to be transparent.

The building components also includes a router . In some embodiments the router is configured to provide a transparent layer of security and logically segment the in building components or elements from any of the client systems that may also reside on the building s local area network assuming that all control devices as well as other systems in the building reside on a same local area network . In general all building components can be configured to sit behind the router in order to isolate them from the building s local area network. In some embodiments the router can be configured to only segment the local network and can be essentially transparent to normal operation of the communications system . Further on the upstream communication path the router is configured to communicate the building server and the control server where such communications can be configured to be transparent. On the downstream path the router is configured to transparently communicate with the gateway .

As stated above using the building component s elements the user is able to receive data e.g. sensory data and transmit commands to the building s functionalities for the purposes of management and or control such functionalities e.g. HVAC electrical telephone lighting gas oil heat humidity level etc. . Using these elements in the building component the user is able to collect various current and or historical data about operation of the building and or its particular systems and make any requisite decisions whether or not to adjust operation of a particular functionality with the building. Such adjustments can be done manually semi automatically and or automatically.

The following is a description of an exemplary network component of the communications system according to some embodiments of the present invention. The network component or components can be configured to operate in one or more data centers that can be accessible from LAN MAN WAN the Internet mobile networks or any other network. These components are further configured to interact via various communication protocols primarily HTTP and utilize various REST based application programming interfaces API as well as industry standard data formats to exchange data information and command and control messages. As can be understood by one having ordinary skill in the art other ways of providing communication between network component its elements and other components in the communication system are possible. The present invention is not limited to the illustrated embodiment.

In some embodiments the network component is configured to include a gateway an application server a log server a decision server a report server a data warehouse a data transformer a report database also known as data mart an audit database an operations database and a trouble ticket database . The building component is configured to be communicatively coupled to the network component via the gateway . The gateway is configured to be communicatively coupled to the application server the log server and the decision server via various Hypertext transfer protocol HTTP pull push procedures. An HTTP server push also known as HTTP streaming is a mechanism for sending data from a web server to a web browser and can be achieved through various known mechanisms. An HTTP pull is a mechanism for receiving retrieving data. The application server is configured to be communicatively coupled to the report server and databases via similar mechanisms. The report server is in turn communicatively coupled to the report database . The log server is communicatively coupled to the data warehouse . The application server also communicates with the remote client component and its various applications and .

As stated above the gateway is one of the mechanisms that the network component s elements are configured to communicate with the elements of the building component . As can be understood by one having ordinary skill in the art various elements of the network component can communicate directly with various elements of the component . The gateway is configured to 1 poll a building and obtain state data information and updates 2 send commands to the building to control various building operations e.g. turn on a light change a set point on a thermostat etc. and 3 disseminate building data to the appropriate element of the network component for further processing or display. In some embodiments the polling aspect of the gateway as shown in can be accomplished through extracting data directly from the control server or via a customized data transport method thereby eliminating direct interface with the control server . As illustrated in on an upstream path the gateway communicates with the building server for communication purposes and the control server for data acquisition. The building server provides a transparent secure communication tunnel so the data transfer between the gateway and control server is encrypted over a network e.g. the Internet or any other type of network. . On the downstream communication path the gateway is configured to communicate with the application server which is responsible for routing data to remote client component s application s and or users as well as generating notifications of specific events and data pushing. The application server is configured to push data via an HTTP server push mechanism to the gateway . The application server will be described in more detail below. On the downstream path the gateway is configured to communicate with the log server and the decision server . The log server is configured to perform continuous logging of state changes and events e.g. temperature drop is detected in the boiler humidity level is above a predetermined threshold etc. 

In some embodiments the application server is configured to respond to user devices such as web applications mobile applications or any other applications that are part of the remote client component e.g. iPhone iPad iPod Blackberry cellular telephone PALM PDA and other devices applications . The application server is further configured to ensure that each client s application receives up to date data on the values of control points as well as pass on commands from the applications down to the building via the gateway . Information that can be received by the application server from the control points can include values indicating a particular state e.g. on off or a specific numerical value for example temperature in an area within building facility humidity level with an area oil level in an oil tank of the building facility gas pressure in the building facility gas supply line whether a door to a particular facility is open and for how long it was open before it was closed whether the lights are turned on in an area within the building facility etc. As can be understood by one skilled in the art a single control point can provide monitoring and control of an entire system within the building or multiple control points can be assigned to the system subsystem within the building . For example a lighting system in the building can include a control point assigned to every bulb in the building where such control point is configured to provide a readout as to whether a light is on off out. The user through the application server and the gateway is configured to provide commands instructions to control systems and subsystems within the building for example turn on off lights heat HVAC activate deactivate security call repair service etc.

In some embodiments where each user of the communication system is assigned a specific role e.g. owner manager customer service representative service technician etc. the application server can be further configured to manage all user permissions alert notification lists building definitions as well as manages various operational databases . Specifically if a particular user of the system has a restricted access then application server would allow that user to access certain parts of the system but not others so as to prevent an unauthorized change to the system s operational components and or reporting. In some embodiments the owner has a system wide access allowing the owner to change any and all parameters about the owner s buildings. A customer service representative would have a partial access to the system s elements so as to be able to provide information about system s operation to the user requesting information however the representative may be restricted from accessing certain secure parts of the system. As can be understood by one skilled in the art various users of the system can be granted different security and access levels which can be altered based on appropriate permissions. In some embodiments the application server can also include various APIs which other components in the system can utilize to request data and system configuration information.

As shown in on an upstream communication path the application server is configured to be communicatively coupled to the gateway which provides control point status information to and receives control point command data from the application server . The communication between the application server and the gateway is accomplished on the basis of the HTTP server push mechanism.

The application server is also coupled to the log server and is configured to provide logging data and information to the log server concerning control point status commands sent to control points from user or other elements of the system commands executed at or by control points and any other information about operation of the communication system . In some embodiments the communication between the application server and the log server is accomplished through HTTP server pull mechanism.

The application server is also coupled to the decision server that is configured to send notification messages to the application server . The decision server is configured to determine whether a notification event has occurred based on settings that may be pre defined by the user. If a notification event has occurred a notification message is configured to be generated which can include at least the following information control point name current state event trigger e.g. a predefined temperature range is exceeded predetermined humidity level is exceeded lighting has been left on beyond a predetermined period of time etc. . The decision server then sends the notification message to the application server which is configured to maintain a list of users who are subscribed to receive such notification message and send out the notification message to the designated users over various communication channels e.g. email push in application and SMS messaging telephone call or any other means .

On the downstream communication path the application server is configured to communication with various applications in the remote client component . The applications allow users of the system to provide various command and control data information and instructions to elements of the system . In some embodiments the application server is also configured to be coupled to a push notification service s which can be external services that push data to mobile devices applications such as Apple s Push Notification Service RIM s Blackberry push notification services and others .

The log server is configured to capture state changes at the building as provided by the gateway and to store them in the data warehouse . Such storage can be accomplished on a continuous basis periodically at predetermined intervals automatically upon detection of a change or in any other pre select manner. The log server can be configured to pull its configuration information from the application server including obtaining a current list of buildings for each client owner user. Whenever values of control point s are updated the log server is configured to record such values and or any state changes associated with such an update. As stated above the log server is configured to write the data to the data warehouse .

Thus on the upstream communications path the log server is configured to be communicatively coupled to the gateway for receiving data and state change information on control points and the application server for obtaining initial configuration information. On the downstream communications path the log server is configured to be coupled to the data warehouse for maintaining a record of each control point monitored by the system .

The decision server is configured to provide an intelligent control within the communications system . In some embodiments the decision server is further configured to provide an automated response to user configured conditions. For example such responses can include automatically turning on the heat once the outside temperature reaches a pre defined set point temperature. In some embodiments the decision server is further configured to manage alert notifications that are can be generated based on the data received from the control points within a building . That is if a given control point reaches a state defined by the end user the decision server is configured to generate a notification message to be sent to one or more end users i.e. applications etc. . The decision server is further configured to receive data on the status of control points directly from the gateway and can be further configured to use the application server for managing dissemination of the notification messages.

As such the decision server is configured to be communicatively coupled to a gateway on an upstream communication path for receiving data from the control points concerning events state changes commands etc. On the downstream the decision server is communicatively coupled to the application server for pushing notification and other command state event data and information.

The report server is configured to manage delivery of historical data and analysis to the end user via a web interface. In some embodiments the report server is configured to interact with the application server to deliver any historical reports requested by a user or an element of the system to the appropriate end user. As stated above the application server can be configured to manage access to such reports for the purposes of management and data analysis. The report server is further configured to retrieve processed historical data from the report database as illustrated in . Such retrieved data can be used to generate various reports or prompt the user or various elements to generate appropriate commands or other alerts. In some embodiments the data warehouse can be configured to have an unlimited amount of storage for storing the historical data of the communications system . In alternate embodiments the data warehouse can be configured to have a predetermined storage threshold beyond which historical data can be archived compressed transferred offsite deleted and or purged based on age importance use and or other parameters.

The report server can be configured to generate reports by a collection of buildings a building a zone a group and or by a control point. In some embodiments the report server can be configured so that access to the historical data is limited based on a particular user and or user preferences. The application server can also be configured to allow limit such access.

As such the report server is configured to be communicatively coupled to the data warehouse and the reporting database also known as data mart on an upstream communications path. Such communication is accomplished using a data transformer that communicates with the data warehouse and the reporting database . The data transformer is configured to process raw data stored in the data warehouse and provide it to the reporting database for further processing by the report server . The data warehouse and reporting database can be any storage facilities or repositories. In some embodiments the data transformer includes scripts or programs that are used to process the raw data from the data warehouse . In some embodiments these scripts can be pre defined and could be configured by the end user for the purposes of generating new unanticipated reports. An example of such processing is pre computing a date limited range of average temperatures in a building. Hence on the downstream communication path the report server is coupled to the application server for delivering requested reports to the end user application.

As can be understood by one having ordinary skill in the art each of the servers can include a processing equipment that is capable of receiving transmitting data processing and managing data a communications equipment capable of providing communication path s between various elements of the system a memory components and or any other requisite components.

Referring to the databases and are configured to receive maintain and store various live raw processed and or historical data as well as any other data that is generated in connection with operation of the system . In some embodiments the system can be configured to have data compression archival backup policies that allow for efficient management of data. Various data can be moved to offsite repositories compressed deleted purged or otherwise manipulated to reduce storage capacities of the appropriate databases.

The following is a description of each database illustrated in . As can be understood by one having ordinary skill in the art the present invention is not limited to the number of databases or storage facilities show in . Other databases can be added to the system to serve various storage and processing purposes.

As stated above in some embodiments the data warehouse can be configured to maintain historical control point and event data that may be going back to the initial start of the communications system and as such it can contain data from the first time a particular building control point etc. have been activated. The data warehouse can be populated manually semi automatically and or automatically from dumps from a log database which can be internal to the log server and which can be into the data warehouse periodically. The data warehouse can be also manually semi automatically and or automatically updated using the data from the log database on a pre determined basis e.g. hourly daily weekly monthly etc. or on other configurable time scale.

The report database also known as data mart can be configured to contain processed raw data from the data warehouse which has been processed by the data transformer . The report database can be updated on a predetermined basis e.g. daily weekly and monthly data . Such data can represent activity of various elements of the communications system including data associated with operation of various building systems subsystems as represented by the control points . As stated above the data can be provided on an up to the minute hourly daily weekly monthly yearly etc. These periods of time can be custom defined by the user building manager building owner of the system .

The audit database is configured to contain a log of all activities initiated by the users within the communications system . These may include commands from the user automatic commands by the system generated based on specific settings or any other data exchange. In some embodiments the audit database can be populated by the application server . The audit database can be configured to simply record the action of any human initiated process in the communication system .

In some embodiments the network component can be configured to include a log database that contains various historical control data. In some embodiments the log database can be configured to store data going back more than a predetermined time period e.g. a week a month a year etc. . The log database can be updated based on a predetermined system configuration and can be populated by the log server .

In some embodiments the operations database can be configured to maintain configuration information for the system based on client information e.g. site configurations buildings user lists etc. building information e.g. lists of control points etc. and user information e.g. permissions groups etc. .

The trouble ticket database can be configured to store and manage end user and system initiated support requests which are known as trouble tickets. These can include various alerts requests for service and repair as well as any other actions. In some embodiments a trouble ticket can be describe the problem time submitted and current status and once resolved a description of the resolution and date time of resolution.

Referring to the communications system can be configured to include remote client component that includes mobile applications web applications and or other applications that can allow a user to control buildings . As shown in the web applications can be configured to include a console application as shown in which can be used by end users to monitor and control building function an administrator application as shown in which can be used by client e.g. user building owner manager etc. staff to administer their accounts with system staff user accounts and building profiles and a platform manager application as shown in which can be used by the staff to manage client accounts billing provide client support as well as monitor and control client buildings. In some embodiments there are also corresponding mobile applications that allow users to activate or monitor control points for which they have permission. In addition the mobile applications allow partial control over a users profile information. As can be understood by one skilled in the art the applications are not limited to those shown in . The applications and the system can be configured to be adaptable to any systems subsystems as well as local networks used by the buildings and or their owners managers and or other users.

Referring to the platform manager web application is configured to provide the user client owner of the system with a listing of facilities buildings along with appropriate locations and contact information as well as providing status of each identified facility . The platform manager is also capable of providing information about the number of sites buildings systems zones and control points as well as any warnings that may have issued for the identified properties . In some embodiments the user client owner can add a building to the list of buildings . illustrates access level granted to each person associated with a particular property along with appropriate contact information. For example some users can be listed as administrators having the highest level of access as indicated by the symbols. also provides information for each particular user and sites buildings along with appropriate status and warnings. identify roles of each person authenticated on the system. illustrates each building along with associate site and client information and periods of updating the information. illustrates an exemplary window that can be used to create new billing information. illustrates a sample report that can be generated for each building associated with a client. The report can illustrate information about various parameters including temperature changes humidity level changes electricity consumption oil consumption gas consumption security information and other reports. Various elements of the communications system are configured to analyze data received from the buildings control points and generate reports having various degrees of depth of information e.g. a number of time a particular person entered a specific zone within a building the number of minutes that person was in that zone before exiting and any other information that may be desired by the user and or client.

In some embodiments the user receives access to the communications network service and also adds user s buildings facilities to the service. Once the user and the user s buildings are added to the network service the user and the buildings are able to communicate with one another whereby the user is capable of sending messages control signals commands etc. to the buildings systems and the buildings systems are able to respond to the user with reports alerts etc. In some embodiments hardware sensors etc. may be installed at user s buildings for allowing the user and buildings communications. In some embodiments on site technicians can provide installation of equipment to enable Internet connectivity and system sensor device level access to the building systems. In some embodiments support staff may be involved in the installation process and setting up a web interface for managing the process. Additional staff may be needed to ensure that each one of user s buildings has the proper equipment necessary to provide interne access and bi directional flow of information and control inputs.

To operate the present invention s network service the user logins to setup various user accounts. In some embodiments such user accounts can be on various user access levels Administrator Supervisor or Staff These user levels are described in more detail below. User can also establish Access Groups that can provide easily defined sets of privileges to be extended to users. Once the user s building facility is configured in terms of hardware and connectivity the building may be added to the user s account. A user s Supervisor user logins to the service and can add new buildings facilities etc. Additional support may be needed to maintain the system. Once the building is added Control Points which can correspond to actual building system devices can be added and configured. In some embodiments control points can be configured to correspond to whole systems or subsystems within a system e.g. sensors that monitor and or control performance of a particular system component e.g. temperature or the system as a whole e.g. boiler system HVAC system etc. . Once the connection between buildings user and the network are established the users are able to monitor and control day to day operation of any building system and or subsystem under the client s account depending on the user s Group membership.

In some embodiments the communications system can be configured to provide a comprehensive reporting on per user and or aggregate basis. The communications system can be configured to generate local and or global reports on building system operations as well as user actions. Local reports can be configured to apply to a single building and or facility. Global reports are based on whatever grouping the user decides to use including but not limited to address city state region country etc. .

In some embodiments the communications system can be configured to perform mining of the operational data to provide aggregate or targeted reporting and recommendations on building operations. For example the communications system aggregated targeted reports can support a green rating of buildings where reporting provides an insight into how much energy is being used by the buildings based on consumption of various energy resources electricity oil water gas etc. emissions and or exhaust from spent fuels production of unusable content e.g. trash etc. and other parameters that can be used to calculate the greenness of a building and or buildings. Such reports can also provide a measure of the efficiency of a particular building or group of buildings. Groupings may be by client locale or region as well as system type.

In some embodiments the communications system is easy to setup from the user s perspective and does not require any special software installation for individual users. In some embodiments a web application may be implemented that uses for example a broadband interne connection and 228 bit capable browser. In some embodiments the user can communicate with the buildings via user s mobile telephone blackberry iPhone iPod iPad PDA laptop personal computer regular telephone or any other communication device using SMS mobile browser or any other type of communication protocols. Using the present invention s system the user is capable of controlling and or monitoring various building systems e.g. HVAC lighting security etc. In some embodiments the present invention s system can be made compatible with various interne browsers such as Internet Explorer Firefox Safari etc. The present invention is also capable of working with GoogleTalk various Instant Messengers including AIM MSN Instant Messenger Yahoo Instant Messenger and others As stated above in some embodiments the present invention can be configured to use international and open source standards for building communication such as LonTalk Bacnet and others. The communications system can be configured to perform comprehensive reporting and historical record of building operational information. The communications system is further configured to provide aggregate data collection and processing for the purposes of comprehensive reporting on local regional and global basis.

The client user side component includes an application server in communication with a client account database s a live event notify database an event notifier a client side web server and a client web interface . The application server can be configured to include various components for pre fetching data building communication event handling schedulers components that perform analysis reporting and various control logic. The client user interacts with client web interface that allows the client user to view information about user s buildings respond to various alerts issue commands etc.

The interaction between client s side and the building access server takes place via client web server access functions on the building access server side and live event notify database and client account database .

In some embodiments the present invention s physical architecture can be configured to include a plurality of web application servers hosted at a suitable co location facility. Both web servers and primary database servers can be co located. The ArchiveDB may be a datastore leveraging the Amazon S3 data storage service or similar. In some embodiments the design of the system ensures scalability without incurring large hardware costs. In some embodiments the buildings do not require any additional hardware software besides the already existing infrastructure.

In some embodiments the present invention s system and service can be hosted on controlled servers in various co location facilities across the country. The live service may leverage various cloud services e.g. Amazon S3 Amazon EC2 to manage deployment cost and effort. Detailed choices on deployment configurations will be made taking cost security growth ease and other factors into account.

In some embodiments the communications system can be configured to include the following components a building interface servers and API a website a client user interface and client side databases and servers as shown in . The following is a brief discussion of the components of the system .

The present invention s building interface component interfaces directly with building controls systems via various protocols such as LonTalk Bacnet ASCI protocols. As can be understood by one skilled in the art other types of protocols are possible. A present invention s API can be configured to provide a common interface to either the LonTalk or Bacnet protocols. In some embodiments the present invention can include routers connected to the building subsystems that can be disposed at each one of user s buildings and or facilities as well as a broadband interne connection preferably dedicated . LonTalk or Bacnet compatible software and hardware can be also installed at each building and or facility to ensure proper communication with the present invention s service.

In some embodiments the present invention s system and service can be configured to include various servers and databases to deliver the monitoring and control functionality. These elements are 

The present invention can be configured to include a service website for users of the present invention s system can interact with the system and their buildings. The website can be configured as a database driven web application. This is where users clients setup new accounts users login and manage their facilities. The web application can be compatible with major browsers currently available and leverage industry standard 228 bit SSL capabilities for security.

The client user interface UI is how users can access the system. In some embodiments the UI can be configured as a web application using industry standard methods and technology. Access can be configured to be browser based for both web and mobile interfaces. In some embodiments the users can access the system via various mobile devices Blackberry iPhone iPod iPad personal computer or similar browser capable devices. The client web application can provide access for account management system set up system monitoring and control as well as user management. Various client side databases and computational servers can be configured to provide account information operational data web access and manage computational resources.

Prior to using the system of the present invention e.g. managing and or controlling various buildings the users clients connect to the system and setup an account. In some embodiments account setup can be self service up to the point of the initial building setup. In some embodiments the present invention can provide for Client Administrators that are able to establish an account and schedule any onsite work necessary to properly configure their buildings. Clients can establish requested service levels enter billing and payment information provide data on buildings and facilities as well as setup initial user accounts for Supervisors and or staff Clients can be issued a unique client number and Client ID. Clients users can be required to enter a Client ID as part of their user login credentials. illustrates a typical client login interface.

Once the client is signed in various users can be added using add edit client interface as shown in . In some embodiments the clients can designate various access levels to its users. There are three main types of users of the system Administrators Supervisors and Staff As can be understood by one skilled in the art there can be more than three types of users. The following is a brief description of the three types. Administrators can be the main business contact at the client. Administrator s is responsible for managing the contractual arrangement with the service provided by the present invention s system. Administrator s has a primary control to establish service levels and can change it as necessary. Anything that involves billing payment is managed by the Administrator s . Each Client can have at least one Administrator. Supervisor can be a technical user for the client. These persons can be senior facilities managers. They can have primary responsibility for authorizing subordinate users Staff setting up building system interfaces etc. Actions that may impact service level can require Administrator approval. Supervisors may have responsibility for more than one building system. Although Supervisors may have privileges limited to one type of building system. Supervisors have all the privileges that Staff users have. Each Building or Facility can have at least one Supervisor with global privileges for all available systems. Building Staff that handles day to day monitoring and control. Staff can be authorized to monitor and control various building systems. They may be authorized to add components to or upgrade repair an existing building system. They may also add a building system to the service with Supervisor approval. Note a specific user may be both an Administrator and Supervisor which may be the case in smaller organizations. As can be understood by one skilled in the art other types of users can be setup having varying levels of control and access to the client s accounts.

In some embodiments various user groups can be created by Supervisors and or Administrators. Upon creating of new user accounts the accounts can be assigned to various Groups. A Group can be assigned a client predefined set of privileges. For example an HVAC group or lighting group may define privileges for Staff responsible for those systems. A Group may be set up for a building or cluster of buildings. Groups may be created for users needing to span multiple buildings or systems. For example a security staff person would be in the security group which allows them to control various security and access functions but not control operation of the HVAC system. Supervisors are part of Groups and depending on their privileges may operate in multiple groups. Privileges can also be customized so a member of a group may have a subset or superset of the privileges in a particular group. Groups can be configured by facility or building system type staffing level. For example an office administrator may have staff privileges to only generate view and print various reports. In addition a specific user may have Supervisor privileges in one group but staff privileges in another.

In some embodiments users are authorized to take certain actions within the present invention s system depending on User type and Group membership. These policies can be primarily controlled by membership in a Group. Users can belong to one or more groups with Supervisor or Staff privileges. Within each Group a default set of privileges is applied and Supervisors may select or deselect privileges on a user by user basis. Different Groups can be established to define differing privilege levels. Groups may have an unlimited number of members and Users may belong to an unlimited number of groups.

In some embodiments users can login to the present invention using a 228 bit SSL capable browser. Users will enter a ClientID UserID e.g. user email address and a password. ClientID and UserID should be unique. ClientID and UserID are linked in the client account meaning a valid UserID cannot be used to login to a Client account for which the User is not authorized. A password for example can be minimum 8 characters case sensitive with symbols and numbers allowed to provide additional security.

In some embodiments users can self manage their account profiles making changes to passwords email address other profile information as well as default preferences for viewing the present invention s service information receiving system alerts and other communication. Certain changes such as email and password changes can be confirmed by the user. For example the user can confirm the email address change at the new address and the old email address can be sent a notification with the option to stop the change. Password strength can be shown to client when they establish it. Suggestions to change weak passwords can be given.

As shown in each page in the system s Client Interface can have a top level menu that provides rapid access to some key functions. The Overview tab allows access to the Client Home page the Facilities tab will show the Facility Management Page and any subordinate pages . The Contacts tab can show a list of client contacts within the present invention s service. That is client staff supervisors and administrators with active accounts in the Service. The Profile tab shows the user user s account information most of which will be editable. The Billing tab shows the current status of the client account and billing payment information. The Billing tab can be configured to be not selectable by non Administrators. The Support tab can take users to the Support Home page allowing them to view existing support requests trouble tickets or submit new support requests or trouble tickets. See 

In some embodiments the present invention s software infrastructure can be responsible for direct communication with building hardware and can be based on the BACnet or any other web services standard. In alternate embodiments a LONtalk based router building or any other type of protocol can also be supported. The following description for illustration purposes only will refer to BACnet protocol standard. This standard defines the low level database storage techniques and layout defined later i.e. storage blocks types functions access requirements etc. . The first section below describes the API functions that operate on the Servers. These Servers are responsible for setting up communication with building routers and devices as well as managing the real time polling data updates to the database. In some embodiments a Data Collection functionality can be used on existing remote Building Automation Servers. Both BACnet and LONTalk standards define a Communication Stack that enables logging of temporal data. Having local existing BACnet and LONtalk servers store Time Blocks of this data will reduce the transactions necessary on the Servers thus increasing performance and scalability. Specific examples of the API calls are shown in Appendix.

In some embodiments the software block HW hardware Polling can be responsible for automated building communication and polling for device data. Each device node can have a specific polling frequency e.g. temperature gauges every 20 seconds boiler temperature every 5 seconds fan speeds every second etc. . These sampled data may be logged on customer building server and streamed every 5 minutes when a client isn t logged in interactively present invention s server can be initiated . HW Polling can also control all event notification functionality. The listener functions can filter all Events from assigned building devices and initiate communication notification e mail IM phone cell text messaging etc. to registered recipients. The events can be given a priority level 2 being the highest priority. Examples include Priority 3 Boiler Maintenance Testing Fuel burn rate above nominal etc Priority 2 Temperature below lowest set point by threshold margin Door open longer than time out period etc Priority 2 Fuel gauge empty Water sensor triggered General alarms etc. . All database updates are carried out by this block using the stored schedules for all customer assets. Extensive logs can be created by this block to record all transactions with routers building devices etc.

The client side can be configured to include a Client Web Server Listener. This software block can be responsible for initiating the pre fetch processes. When a client logs in this block automatically starts streaming required DB data according to access privileges. It is continually updated with live polling data only while a client is actively logged in. Alarm notifications bypass this block and use their own live server function with appropriate Notify Lists .

The Parsing Communication Functions can directly control transactions with building hardware. Usually encrypted there are two or three blocks that control translation and packet writing parsing for the BACnet Web Services protocol LONtalk protocol and an Other block that will support custom functions for high profile clients without one of the aforementioned standards. In conjunction with the Poller block all DB write search functions are included here.

The Hardware API component can be configured to provide a direct function access used for all Web GUI services. They are served to both the Personnel Setup GUI as data entry is processed and settings configured. They enable test connections with building routers and preview of the hardware system node hierarchy during the selection of managed components. In anticipation of possible revenue models monthly service fees may be based on the number and type of systems sensors being managed and billing support can and should be built into or connected with this interface where hardware is selected for access based on quotas or analogous limits.

In some embodiments set up and support GUI can be web based. This serves to broaden the access to the present invention s systems by personnel in remote locations without the need for installation software and dedicated local IT support. All browser based data communication will use industry standard of security features. The Set up GUI allows establishing initial client accounts. This could include billing information initial administrator passwords contacts building information building specific data such as router IP addresses port numbers building locations etc. The personnel would establish initialize communication with the site hardware to verify what is accessible and what may need onsite authorization by the client s personnel. Note that some of this information contact info etc. may be provided by the Client through the initial online sign up page. At this point however setting up an account and configuring a building for monitoring may require personnel and possibly on site contractors to ensure the target building is properly configured. All client hardware devices sensors etc. would be catalogued with their unique identifiers and built into a database with defined parameters for monitoring and control e.g. polling frequencies backup procedures priority notification list etc. . In some embodiments all priority 2 messages can be passed to the live prefetch DB server where the client administrator has already set up the notification list for each Priority Event . Notification could be via email IM addresses text messages voice mail phone etc. Portions of this set up support UI screen could be made available to the client administrator for certain self service tasks but access to API functions that initiate the DB set up and polling communication should reside exclusively with technicians. Note that after initial set up Clients will have the ability to adjust various monitoring parameters polling rates backups notifications etc. through the client web application. The range of client adjustment may be limited to ensure system operations don t fall outside various ranges. Since buildings may not support a turn key installation and ongoing support may require staff access to building details the Support web application includes a Facilities Management page as mentioned above. To access a specific facility staff may bring up a Facilities Setup modify page . This page allows the support staff to access the onsite building servers and routers to establish ensure proper communication and perform initial configuration of a Client site. illustrate a selection page for accessing a specific Node sensor or control unit within a building the UI to modify or configure a selected Node.

The following discussion relates to various embodiments implementing the systems and methods described above and in connection with .

In some embodiments the present invention relates to monitoring and recording temperatures of individual refrigeration units that can be disposed in a building e.g. a kitchen in a restaurant a medical facility that includes a refrigeration unit that stores medications medical supplies or any other items or any other facility . The present invention can be configured to determine malfunction and or temperature variation below designated levels i.e. a predetermined threshold temperature level and provide immediate notification to a central control unit and or assigned personnel so that a corrective action can be taken. The notification can be received on an iPod iPhone blackberry cellular telephone PC or any other suitable device. Such monitoring allows for storage of food items at a proper temperature as well as keeping the food items within safe temperature ranges to avoid food borne illnesses. In case of medical storage facilities medications vaccines or other items are stored and kept at predefined temperatures in order to maintain their effectiveness and chemical integrity as required by various regulations. In case of laboratory settings various specimens may need to be stored in separate refrigerators and maintained at a defined level to maintain the integrity of the specimen until transport.

In some embodiments the present invention can be configured to be disposed in a hospital nursing home or any other facilities that may require patient monitoring. Such monitoring can be done remotely. The present invention is configured to monitor and relay alarm data to a central device s and or a handheld device e.g. iPod iPhone blackberry cellular telephone PC or any other suitable device given to various care professionals and or staff for immediate detection and swifter reaction time. In some embodiments the present invention can be configured to monitor fall safety management alarm devices such as including but not limited to bed pad alarms chair pad alarms infrared motion sensor alarms seat belt alarms under seat pad alarms or any other devices that can be configured to monitor. Such monitoring can be configured to ensure faster reaction time by staff that is responsible for monitoring these alarms and hence may prevent fall and or injury by the patient that has such alarms assigned to the room.

In some embodiments the present invention can be configured to relay building unit alarm data to a central device s handheld e.g. iPod iPhone blackberry cellular telephone PC or any other monitoring device by assigned nursing maintenance corporate staff for immediate detection and swift reaction time of security safety breeches by wandering residents or unauthorized personnel. The present invention can be configured to monitor door alarm sensors that can be configured to be disposed on various secured sections of the building e.g. restricted entry exit doors and provide appropriate notification to handheld devices to alert staff that is responsible for maintaining security in the facility. In some embodiments the present invention can be configured to monitor and provide information about delays in locking doors that can be opened for a limited amount of time and at other times should remain locked doors with lock bypass options exit alarms e.g. when a resident or a patient attempts to leave the building by himself herself and who may not be allowed to do so unattended . This feature of the present invention can be configured to limit theft observe and react to any non witnessed events i.e. those events that are not actively being observed by responsible personnel occurring in both public and private unit areas e.g. day rooms bath rooms bed rooms behind privacy curtains in hallways unattended service areas etc. .

In some embodiments the present invention can be configured to monitor and relay building unit alarm data from the hot water mixing values and anti scald system to a central device s handheld iPod iPhone iPad blackberry cellular telephone PC or any other monitoring device by both onsite and off site assigned nursing maintenance corporate staff for immediate detection and swift response time of plumbing hot water temperature malfunctions. Immediate scalding above 110 degrees Celsius could occur at resident sinks tub shower areas whirlpools etc. and toxic bacteria like Legionella can grow if temperatures are too cool 149 degrees Celsius . Anti scalding system alarms may go undetected or delayed if not located in an accessible area or relayed to staff that are unfamiliar with how to immediately identify and eliminate immediate harm. The present invention can be configured to monitor various devices that detect mixing values and warming system alarms and can be further configured to immediately notify key personnel when corrective actions needs to be taken and the location of the malfunction. In some embodiments the present invention is configured to monitor alerts when the stored hot water falls below the ideal range of 150 160 degrees Celsius and when mixing value failures occur resulting in the residents hot water mixture being greater than 110 degrees Celsius. Also in some embodiments the present invention can be configured to monitor devices that generate an alarm when hot water temperature valves malfunction or fails to maintain required temperatures for dishwashing and laundry cycles. In this scenario various resident and building supervisory staffs can call to direct or receive feedback on staff s immediate interventions and resolutions. In some embodiments the present invention can be configured to monitor and measure values of hot water mixing valves on the water tank alarm s on the anti scald system if any point of use thermostatic mixing valves. Such monitoring allows for faster reaction time to the alarms generated by the system in order to prevent resident injuries from non human created scalding and detect malfunctions with its exact location as well as tracking and documentation of temperature monitoring and verification.

In some embodiments the present invention can be configured to monitor and relay resident call bell light service alarms to a central device s handheld iPod iPhone iPad blackberry cellular telephone PC or any other monitoring device by assigned nursing staff for immediate detection and swifter response time in a hospital nursing home or any other medical or non medical facility. Upon receiving the alarm information the appropriate responsible staff e.g. nurse attendant etc. can see immediately which resident patient is requesting service from any location on the unit. The staff can communicate with the resident and direct an appropriate staff member to assist the resident. Administrators can determine the timeframe from request onset to task completion for monitoring any individual or an entire shifts timely task performance. In some embodiments the present invention can also be configured to monitor time required for a staff member to respond to resident patient s request time spent by the staff member with the patient as a result of the request and or any other pertinent information. Such information may be useful in tracking and monitoring of service time to address resident family complaints related to delayed call bell response times as well as allowing managerial staff to monitor their subordinates without making lengthy visual observations.

In some embodiments the present invention can be configured to monitor and relay information to individual caregivers in a hospital nursing home or any other facility and to provide an alarm beacon when a patient is wet saturated and needs to be changed. Currently aide staff must physically examine incontinent garments diapers briefs pads etc. to determine if the item requires changing. In some cases the standard of practice dictates that this task is to be performed at a minimum every two hours. For mechanical lift residents this can be time consuming and labor intensive to discover the diaper was not wet and did not need changing. An alarm beacon would sound when the diaper is wet thus eliminating the need for this frequent and sometimes unnecessary check to be performed. Hence the present invention can be configured to monitor alarm devices that are installed in disposable diapers briefs or pads that must be checked for change purposes routinely as well as blue chuk pads that are used to catch fluids or prevent moisture from resting on skin surfaces or soiling bed furniture wheelchair cushions.

In some embodiments the present invention can be configured to monitor and relay information to a central device s handheld iPod iPhone iPad blackberry cellular telephone PC or any other monitoring device by assigned nursing staff that pumps i.e. enteral or intravenous that were set for administration have stopped . Tracking the start end times of feeding and medication administration verifies compliance that the items were provided. Notification of a stopped pump alerts a nurse who may be down another hallway or room that the procedure is completed for her attention. An unscheduled stopped pump alerts the nurse to a possible malfunction or resident tampering issue. As such the present invention can be configured to monitor enteral pumps IV pumps or any other devices. By monitoring such device the present invention allows nursing staff to be immediately alerted to a completed feeding or IV medication administration so pump detachment and required line management flushes etc. can be provided.

In some embodiments the present invention can be configured to monitor and relay information to a central device s handheld iPod iPhone iPad blackberry cellular telephone PC or any other monitoring device assigned to staff about all employee movement within the facility. Supervisory staff can immediately track when employees arrive and leave the resident units. In some embodiments personnel oversight is minimized when supervisors can track and alert them to tardy employees who arrive on the resident unit late although they have punched in at the time clock timely or leave significantly sooner than clocked out time. Supervisory staff can also track break times are taken as directed and meal breaks do not exceed the scheduled timeframes. In some embodiments the present invention can be configured to monitor arrival and departure times of staff at change of shifts arrival and departure times of staff at break and meal times arrival and departure times of staff for any reason or any other times.

In some embodiments the present invention relates to a computer program product stored on a computer readable medium for use with a computer configured to monitor and control a building facility the computer program product including computer readable instructions for causing the computer to execute monitoring and control of a building facility.

Example embodiments of the methods circuits and components of the present invention have been described herein. As noted elsewhere these example embodiments have been described for illustrative purposes only and are not limiting. Other embodiments are possible and are covered by the invention. Such embodiments will be apparent to persons skilled in the relevant art s based on the teachings contained herein. Thus the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

