---

title: Methods of treating medical conditions by neuromodulation of the sympathetic nervous system
abstract: The present invention is directed to systems and methods for treating respiratory or pulmonary medical conditions by neuromodulation of a target site of the sympathetic nervous system and preferably a target site in communication with a sympathetic nerve chain. A system for treating a respiratory or pulmonary medical condition incorporating a closed-loop feedback system is also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08583229&OS=08583229&RS=08583229
owner: The Cleveland Clinic Foundation
number: 08583229
owner_city: Cleveland
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101229
---
The present application is a divisional application of U.S. Ser. No. 11 121 006 filed on May 4 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 877 146 which is a continuation in part of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 495 766 filed on May 5 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 778 704 which is a continuation in part of U.S. Ser. No. 10 001 923 filed on Oct. 23 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 6 885 888. All of the above referenced applications are incorporated by reference herein.

The present invention relates to methods of treating medical conditions by electrical and or chemical neuromodulation of target sites in the sympathetic nervous system.

Neuromodulation involves an array of therapeutic approaches applied to the brain cranial nerves spinal cord and all associated nerves and neural structures in the human body to treat various human disorders. Neuromodulation can involve lesioning electrical stimulation modulation chemical stimulation modulation including gene therapy and administration of stem cells. Electrical stimulation of neural tissue is becoming an increasingly preferred form of therapy for certain neurological conditions and disorders where existing therapies generate intolerable side effects require repeated administration of treatment or are simply ineffective in a subset of patients. Electrical stimulation provides distinct advantages over surgical lesioning techniques since electrical stimulation is a reversible and adjustable procedure that provides continuous benefits as the patient s disease progresses and the patient s symptoms evolve.

Currently electrical stimulation of peripheral nerves and the spinal cord is approved for treatment of neuropathic pain. With respect to deep brain targets electrical stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus and the globus pallidus interna is approved for treatment of Parkinson s disease and electrical stimulation of the ventral intermediate nucleus is approved for treatment of essential tremor.

In an embodiment the present invention provides a system for treating a medical condition comprising a therapy delivery device for positioning at a target site of the sympathetic nervous system and a controller in communication with the therapy delivery device for enabling the therapy delivery device to deliver therapy to the target site to treat the medical condition. In a preferred embodiment the target site is in communication with the sympathetic nerve chain. The therapy delivery device can be a stimulation lead for delivering electrical neuromodulation or a drug port for delivering chemical neuromodulation to the target site.

The present invention also provides a system for treating a medical condition comprising a therapy delivery device for applying a therapy signal on a target site in the sympathetic nervous system. The system also include a sensor for detecting a bodily activity associated with the medical condition and generating a sensor signal. The system also includes a controller in communication with the therapy delivery device and the sensor for activating the therapy delivery device to initiate application of the therapy signal to the target site or to adjust application of the therapy signal to the target site in response to the sensor signal. The therapy signal can be an electrical signal in embodiments where the therapy delivery device is a stimulation lead and a chemical signal in embodiments where the therapy delivery device is a drug port.

The present invention also provides a method for treating a medical condition comprising placing a therapy delivery device on a target site of the sympathetic nervous system preferably a target site in communication with a sympathetic nerve chain and activating the therapy delivery device to deliver therapy to the target site to treat the medical condition.

The medical conditions that can be treated by the systems and methods of the present invention include skeletal immunological vascular hemotological muscular connective neurological visual auditory vestibular dermatological endocrinological olfactory cardiovascular genitourinary psychological gastrointestinal respiratory pulmonary inflammatory and neoplastic medical conditions.

The present invention also provide methods of stabilizing and optimizing bodily functions perioperatively and or post operatively by stimulating a target site in communication with a sympathetic nerve chain.

The present invention provides systems and methods for treating medical conditions by neuromodulation of a target site of a sympathetic nervous system and preferably neuromodulation of a target site in communication with a sympathetic nerve chain.

The sympathetic nervous system is a division of the autonomic nervous system and includes the sympathetic nerve chains and its associated direct and indirect input and output nerve branches nerve clusters nerve aggregates and nerve plexuses located for example in the skull base of the skull neck thoracic abdominal and pelvic cavities and their associated arterial and venous structures. The sympathetic nerve chain also known as the sympathetic nerve trunk is a long ganglionated nerve strand along each side of the vertebral column that extends from the base of the skull to the coccyx. Each sympathetic nerve chain is connected to each spinal nerve by gray rami and receives fibers from the spinal cord through white rami connecting with the thoracic and upper lumbar spinal nerves. A sympathetic nerve chain has paravertebral ganglia that are connected by a paravertebral sympathetic chain. Target sites in communication with the sympathetic nerve chain according to the present invention are target sites in the nervous system having fibers that project to and or from the sympathetic nerve chain. Examples of such target sites include the superior cervical middle cervical vertebral inferior cervical and cervicothoracic ganglia spinal cord segments T1 to L3 sympathetic ganglia including paravertebral ganglia and prevertebral ganglia paravertebral sympathetic chain thoracic and lumbar sympathetic ganglia nerve plexuses in communication with sympathetic ganglia dorsal roots ventral roots dorsal root ganglia dorsal rami ventral rami white rami communicans gray rami communicans and recurrent meningeal branches all emerging from spinal cord segments T1 to L3 T1 to L3 spinal nerves and any combination of the above from one or both of the sympathetic nerve chains. Thoracic and lumbar ganglia and prevertebral ganglia and their associated sympathetic structures include the cardiac celiac mesenteric superior and inferior renal hypogastric and intermesenteric abdominal aortic ganglia as well as ganglia associated with glands such as hepatic or adrenal glands. Nerve plexuses include prevertebral plexuses such as the superior and inferior hypogastric pelvic plexus. Target sites also include the thoracic lumbar and sacral splanchnic nerves. The systems and methods of the present invention for treating medical conditions encompass neuromodulation of any combination of one or more target sites of the sympathetic nervous system including any combination of one or more target sites in communication with the sympathetic nerve chain. The systems and methods of the present invention also encompass ipsilateral contralateral and bilateral neuromodulation.

As used herein the term treating a medical condition encompasses therapeutically regulating preventing improving alleviating the symptoms of reducing the effects of and or diagnosing the medical condition. As used herein the term medical condition encompasses any condition disease disorder function abnormality or deficit influenced by the autonomic nervous system. Further the systems and methods of the present invention can be used to treat more than one medical condition concurrently. Non limiting examples of medical conditions that can be treated according to the present invention include genetic skeletal immunological vascular or hematological muscular or connective tissue neurological ocular auditory or vestibular dermatological endocrinological olfactory cardiovascular genitourinary psychological gastrointestinal respiratory pulmonary neoplastic or inflammatory medical conditions. Further the medical condition can be the result of any etiology including vascular ischemic thrombotic embolic infectious including bacterial viral parasitic fungal abscessal neoplastic drug induced metabolic immunological collagenic traumatic surgical idiopathic endocrinological allergic degenerative congenital or abnormal malformational causes.

The present invention also encompasses enhancing the therapeutic effects of other therapies such as methods and systems working in conjunction with a pharmaceutical agent or other therapies to augment enhance improve or facilitate other therapies adjunctive therapies as well as reducing minimize and counteracting side effects complications and adverse reactions for any therapies involved in treating the above mentioned medical conditions. For example the methods and systems of the present invention may be used for a cancer patient undergoing chemotherapy utilizing stimulation to minimize the adverse effects of chemotherapy. In contrast the methods and systems can be used to enhance chemotherapy.

With respect to treating genetic medical conditions such medical conditions can affect single organs organ systems or multiple organs in multiple organ systems.

With respect to treating skeletal medical conditions such medical conditions can involve any medical conditions related to the components of the skeletal system such as for example bones joints or the synovium. Non limiting examples of such skeletal medical conditions include fractures osteoporosis osteomalacia osteopenia arthritis and bursitis.

With respect to treating immunological inflammatory and allergic medical conditions such medical conditions can involve any medical conditions related to the components of the immune system such as for example the spleen or thymus. Non limiting examples of immunological medical conditions include immuno suppressed states immuno compromised states auto immune disorders drug related allergy an environmental allergy or hypogamaglobunimia.

With respect to treating vascular or hematological medical conditions such medical conditions can involve any medical conditions related to the components of the vascular system such as for example the arteries arterioles veins venules capillaries lymph nodes blood including plasma white blood cells red blood cells and platelets. Non limiting examples of vascular hematological medical conditions include anemia thrombocytosis thrombocytopenia neutropenia hemophilia lymphedema thrombosis vasculitis venous insufficiency arterial dissection peripheral edema blood loss vascular insufficiency hypercoagulable states stroke vasospasms and disorders of vascular tone effecting perfusion. The vasculitis may be multifocal systemic or limited to the central nervous system. The hypercoagulable state may be factor V deficiency or anti thrombin deficiency among others. The stroke may result from cerebrovascular disease and or ischemia from decreased blood flow oxygenation second to occlusive or thromboembolic disease. The vasospasms may be secondary to aneurismal subarachnoid hemorrhage or vasospasm secondary to other etiologies.

With respect to treating muscular connective tissue medical conditions such medical conditions can involve any medical conditions related to the components of the muscular connective tissue system such as for example smooth or striated muscles tendons ligaments cartilage fascia and fibrous tissue. Non limiting examples of muscular medical conditions include myopathy muscular dystrophy weakness and muscle atrophy. The muscle atrophy may be caused by degenerative muscle disease nerve injury disuse atrophy or stroke. Non limiting examples of connective tissue medical conditions include scleroderma rheumatoid arthritis lupus Sjogren s syndrome fibromyalgia myositis myofascial pain syndrome and collagen vascular disease. The collagen vascular disease may be lupus or rheumatoid arthritis.

With respect to treating neurological medical conditions such medical conditions can involve any medical conditions related to the components of the nervous system such as for example the brain including the cerebellum brain stem pons midbrain medulla the spinal cord peripheral nerves peripheral ganglia and nerve plexuses. Non limiting examples of neurological conditions include Alzheimer s disease epilepsy multiple sclerosis ALS Guillan Barre stroke cerebral palsy intracerebral hemorrhage dementia vertigo tinnitus diplopia cerebral vasospasm aneurysm atriovenous malformation brain malformations Parkinson s disorder multi system atrophy olivopontocerebellar degeneration familial tremor dystonia including cervical dystonia torticollis facial dystonia blepharospasms spasmodic dysphonia radiculopathy neuropathy sleep disorders disorders of temperature regulation in the body and extremities postherpetic neuralgia involving the face head body or extremities. The neuropathy may be caused by fracture crush injury compressive injury repetitive movement injury diabetes trauma alcohol infection or hereditary. The sleep disorder may be sleep apnea restless leg syndrome narcolepsy snoring insomnia and drowsiness.

With respect to treating ocular medical conditions such medical conditions can involve any medical conditions related to the components of the visual system such as for example the eye including the lens iris conjunctiva lids cornea retina including macula the vitreous chambers and the aqueous chambers. Non limiting examples of ocular medical conditions include myopia hyperopia exopthalmous astigmatism corneal ulcer strabismus retinitis pigmentosa retinal tears macular degeneration cataracts xerophthamia amblyopia and astigmatism glaucoma blindness and diplopia.

With respect to treating auditory and vestibular medical conditions such medical conditions can involve any medical conditions related to the components of the auditory and vestibular system such as for example the ear including the external ear the middle ear the inner ear cochlea ossicles tympanic membrane and semicircular canals. Non limiting examples of auditory and vestibular medical conditions include otitis vertigo hearing loss dizziness and tinnitus.

With respect to treating dermatological medical conditions such medical conditions can involve any medical conditions related to the components of the skin and integumentary system such as for example the hair skin nails and sweat glands. Non limiting examples of dermatological medical conditions include rosacea eczema psoriasis acne hair loss hypertrichosis seborrheic dermatitis xerotic skin oily skin atrophy dystrophy of the skin wrinkles radiation induced damage vitiligo and cellulite.

With respect to treating endocrinological medical conditions such medical conditions can involve any medical conditions related to the components of the endocrine system such as for example the pancreas thyroid adrenal glands liver pituitary and hypothalamus. Non limiting examples of endocrinological conditions include hypoglycemia diabetes type I and II obesity hyperthyroidism hypothyroidism amenorrhea dysmenorrhea infertility impotence anorgasmia delayed orgasm perimenstrual syndrome hypercholesterolemia hypertriglycridinemia Cushing s disease Addison s disease malabsorption syndrome dysautonomia chronic fatigue syndrome fatigue heat exhaustion cold extremities hot flashes vasomotor instability Raynaud s syndrome hormonal disorders metabolic disorders such as gout disorders of metabolism and metabolic storage diseases where there is an accumulation of abnormal amounts of various substances such as glycogen in glycogen storage diseases iron in hemochromatosis or copper in Wilson s disease.

With respect to treating olfactory medical conditions such medical conditions can involve any medical conditions related to the components of the olfactory system such as for example the nose sensory nerves for smell and sinuses. Non limiting examples of olfactory conditions include loss of sense of smell rhinorrhea rhinitis acute sinusitis chronic sinusitis or nasal congestion.

With respect to treating cardiovascular medical conditions such medical conditions can involve any medical conditions related to the components of the cardiovascular system such as for example the heart and aorta. Non limiting examples of cardiovascular conditions include post infarction rehabilitation valvular disease myocardial infarction arrhythmia heart failure angina microvascular ischemia myocardial contractility disorder cardiomyopathy hypertension orthostatic hypotension dysautonomia syncope vasovagal reflex carotid sinus hypersensitivity and cardiac structural abnormalities such as septal defects and wall aneurysms. The cardiomyopathy may be caused by hypertension alcohol or by a congenital cause. The hypertension may be essential primary secondary or renal.

With respect to treating genitourinary medical conditions such medical conditions may involve any medical conditions related to the components of the genitourinary system such as for example the ovary fallopian tube uterus vagina penis testicles kidney bladder ureter and urethra. Non limiting examples of genitourinary medical conditions include impotence dysmenorrhea amenorrhea anorgasmia delayed orgasm endometriosis infertility uterine fibroids ovarian cysts spastic bladder flaccid bladder interstitial cystitis polycystic kidney disease nephrotic syndrome uremia glumerolonephritis renal failure urinary incontinence or hesitancy uremia nephrolithiasis and benign prosthetic hyperplasia.

With respect to treating psychological medical conditions non limiting examples of such medical conditions include Tourette s syndrome autism mental retardation stress anxiety depression bipolar disorder mania schizophrenia a personality disorder a phobia hallucinations delusions psychosis addictions and other affective disorders. The addiction may be to substances or behavior. The substance may be alcohol cigarettes or drugs.

With respect to treating gastrointestinal medical conditions such medical conditions can involve any medical conditions related to the components of the gastrointestinal system such as for example the mouth esophagus stomach small intestine large intestine rectum liver gall bladder bile ducts and pancreas. Non limiting examples of gastrointestinal medical conditions include hepatic failure hepatitis cirrhosis dumping syndrome cirrhosis gastric or duodenal ulcer irritable bowel syndrome colitis diverticulosis diverticulitis emesis hyper emesis gravidum bowel incontinence constipation diarrhea abdominal cramps gastro esophageal reflux esophageal dysmotility gastric dysmotility cholecystitis gall stones pancreatic insufficiency gas bloating and gastritis.

With respect to treating respiratory pulmonary medical conditions such medical conditions can involve any medical conditions related to the components of the respiratory system such as for example the trachea bronchus bronchioles alveoli lungs and capillaries. Non limiting examples of respiratory medical conditions include reactive airway disease asthma emphysema COPD and silicosis.

With respect to treating neoplastic processes such processes can be primary and or metastatic and can involve the thryoid including the medullary the liver the pancreas including vipoma and insulinoma leukemia lymphoma and other non solid tumors neoplastic processes of the brain stomach lung colon esophagus bone skin including basal cells squamous cells and melanoma the bladder kidney prostate breast ovaries uterus nasopharynx and sarcoma.

With respect to treating inflammatory disorders such inflammatory disorders include for example inflammatory bowel disorders such as irritable bowel syndrome and Crohn s disease and auto immune disorders immune disorders and rheumatological disorders.

The present invention also provides methods of treating pain syndromes. Such pain may result from one or more medical conditions comprising migraine headaches including migraine headaches with aura migraine headaches without aura menstrual migraines migraine variants atypical migraines complicated migraines hemiplegic migraines transformed migraines and chronic daily migraines episodic tension headaches chronic tension headaches analgesic rebound headaches episodic cluster headaches chronic cluster headaches cluster variants chronic paroxysmal hemicrania hemicrania continua post traumatic headache post traumatic neck pain post herpetic neuralgia involving the head or face pain from spine fracture secondary to osteoporosis arthritis pain in the spine headache related to cerebrovascular disease and stroke headache due to vascular disorder reflex sympathetic dystrophy cervicalgia glossodynia carotidynia cricoidynia otalgia due to middle ear lesion gastric pain sciatica maxillary neuralgia laryngeal pain myalgia of neck muscles trigeminal neuralgia post lumbar puncture headache low cerebro spinal fluid pressure headache temporomandibular joint disorder atypical facial pain ciliary neuralgia paratrigeminal neuralgia petrosal neuralgia Eagle s syndrome idiopathic intracranial hypertension orofacial pain myofascial pain syndrome involving the head neck and shoulder chronic migraneous neuralgia cervical headache paratrigeminal paralysis sphenopalatine ganglion neuralgia carotidynia Vidian neuralgia and causalgia. To neuromodulate such pain syndromes preferably the cervical and thoracic ganglia are stimulated.

The present invention also provides methods of treating the effects of aging burns trauma transplantation radiation damage bioterrorism back pain and body pain.

In embodiments where the therapy delivery device is a stimulation lead having a lead proximal end a lead body and a lead distal end the lead distal end comprises at least one electrode. The at least one electrode can be a plurality of electrodes. The electrodes at the lead distal end can be either monopolar bipolar or multipolar and can operate as a cathode or an anode. The electrode can be composed of but not limited to activated iridium rhodium titanium or platinum and combinations of said materials. The electrode may be coated with a thin surface layer of iridium oxide titanium nitride or other surface modifications to enhance electrical sensitivity. The stimulation lead can also comprise carbon doped silicon or silicon nitride. Each lead distal end can be provided with a biocompatible fabric collar or band about the electrode periphery to allow it to be more readily sutured or glued into place for electrodes to be secured in this manner . The stimulation lead may be placed permanently or temporarily in the target site to provide chronic or acute neuromodulation of the target site.

The controller is used to operate and supply power to the therapeutic delivery device and enable the therapy delivery device to delivery a therapy signal such as an electrical signal or a chemical signal to the target site. The controller may be powered by a battery which can be rechargable an external power supply a fuel cell or a battery pack for external use. The controller may also be integral with the therapeutic delivery device such as a single stimulation lead power generator . When the therapeutic delivery device is a stimulation lead the controller may change the output to the electrode by way of polarity pulse width amplitude frequency voltage current intensity duration wavelength and or waveform. When the therapeutic delivery device is a drug port the controller may change its output such that a pump pressure source or proportionally controlled orifice increases or decreases the rate at which the pharmaceutical is delivered to the target site. The controller may operate any number or combination of electrodes and pharmaceutical delivery devices for example the controller may be connected to stimulation leads and a peristaltic pump for delivering a pharmaceutical to the target site near the stimulation leads. The controller may be implanted within the patient or it may be positioned by leads outside of the patient. A portion of the control system may be external to the patient s body for use by the attending physician to program the implanted controller and to monitor its performance. This external portion may include a programming wand which communicates with the implanted controller by means of telemetry via an internal antenna to transmit parameter values as may be selectively changed from time to time by subsequent programming selected at the programmer unit such as a computer. The programming wand also accepts telemetry data from the controller to monitor the performance of the therapy delivery device.

In embodiments where the controller enables a stimulation lead to deliver an electrical signal to the target site the electrical signal may be episodic continuous phasic in clusters intermittent upon demand by the patient or medical personnel or preprogrammed to respond to a sensor. Preferably the oscillating electrical signal is operated at a voltage between about 0.1 microvolts to about 20 V. More preferably the oscillating electrical signal is operated at a voltage between about 1 V to about 15 V. For microstimulation it is preferable to stimulate within the range of 0.1 microvolts to about 1 V. Preferably the electric signal source is operated at a frequency range between about 2 Hz to about 2500 Hz. More preferably the electric signal source is operated at a frequency range between about 2 Hz to about 200 Hz. Preferably the pulse width of the oscillating electrical signal is between about 10 microseconds to about 1 000 microseconds. More preferably the pulse width of the oscillating electrical signal is between about 50 microseconds to about 500 microseconds. Preferably the application of the oscillating electrical signal is monopolar when the stimulation lead is monopolar bipolar when the stimulation lead is bipolar and multipolar when the stimulation lead is multipolar. The waveform may be for example biphasic square wave sine wave or other electrically safe and feasible combinations. The electrical signal may be applied to multiple target sites simultaneously or sequentially.

In embodiments where the controller enables a drug port to deliver a chemical signal to the target site a chemical agent may be delivered to the target site prior to concurrent with subsequent to or instead of electrical neuromodulation. The chemical agent may be a neurotransmitter mimick neuropeptide hormone pro hormone antagonist agonist reuptake inhibitor or degrading enzyme thereof peptide protein therapeutic agent amino acid nucleic acid stem cell or any combination thereof and may be delivered by a slow release matrix or drug pump. The delivery of the chemical agent may be continuous intermittent chronic phasic or episodic. Different chemical agents may be utilized to affect different parts of the sympathetic nervous system. The chemical agents preferably work on one or more of the receptor sites of the autonomic nervous system such as the adrenergic receptors cholinergic receptors nicotinic and muscarinic purinergic and nitric oxide receptors. Non limiting examples of chemical agents include prazosin yohimbine atelenol sulbutamol and atropine.

The present invention also provides systems for treating medical conditions incorporating a closed loop feedback mechanism. Specifically in such embodiments the system comprises a therapy delivery device for applying a therapy signal which can be an electrical signal or a chemical signal on a target site of the sympathetic nervous system and preferably a target site in communication with a sympathetic nerve chain. The system further comprises a sensor for detecting a bodily activity associated with the medical condition and for generating a sensor signal. The system also includes a controller in communication with the therapy delivery device for activating the therapy delivery device to initiate application of the therapy signal to the target site or to adjust application of the therapy signal to the target site in response to the sensor signal. The bodily activity to be detected by the sensor is any characteristic or function of the body such as electrical or chemical activity and includes for example temperature respiratory function heart rate capillary pressure venous pressure perfusion oxygenation including blood oxygenation levels oxygen saturation levels oxygen consumption oxygen pressure water pressure nitrogen pressure carbon dioxide pressure in the tissue circulation including blood and lymphatic electrolyte levels in the circulation tissue diffusion or metabolism of various agents and molecules such as glucose neurotransmitter levels body temperature regulation blood pressure blood viscosity metabolic activity cerebral blood flow pH levels vital signs galvanic skin responses perspiration electrocardiogram electroencephalogram action potential conduction chemical production body movement response to external stimulation cognitive activity dizziness pain flushing motor activity including muscle tone visual activity speech balance diaphragmatic movement chest wall expansion concentration of certain biological molecules substances in the body such as for example glucose liver enzymes electrolytes hormones creatinine medications concentration of various cells platelets or bacteria. These bodily activities can be measured utilizing a variety of methods including but not limited to chemical analysis mechanical measurements laser and fiber optic analysis. Non limiting examples of further tests and bodily activities that can be sensed for categories of medical conditions and specific medical conditions are provided in TABLE I. Table I is only exemplary and non exhaustive and other bodily activities can be sensed as well as various combinations of the sensed activities listed in Table I.

In specific embodiments the sensors are located on or within the body and detect electrical and or chemical activity. Such activity may be detected by sensors located within or proximal to the target site distal to the target site but within the nervous system or by sensors located distal to the target site outside the nervous system. Examples of electrical activity detected by sensors located within or proximal to the target site include sensors that measure neuronal electrical activity such as the electrical activity characteristic of the signaling stages of neurons i.e. synaptic potentials trigger actions action potentials and neurotransmitter release at the target site and by afferent and efferent pathways and sources that project to and from or communicate with the target site. For example the sensors can measure at any signaling stage neuronal activity of any of the extensive connections of the target site. In particular the sensors may detect the rate and pattern of the neuronal electrical activity to determine the electrical signal to be provided to the lead.

Examples of chemical activity detected by sensors located within or proximal to the target site include sensors that measure neuronal activity such as the modulation of neurotransmitters hormones pro hormones neuropeptides peptides proteins electrolytes or small molecules by the target site and modulation of these substances by afferent and efferent pathways and sources that project to and from the target sites or communicate with the target sites.

With respect to detecting electrical or chemical activity of the body by sensors located distal to the target site but still within the nervous system such sensors could be placed in the brain the spinal cord cranial nerves and or spinal nerves. Sensors placed in the brain are preferably placed in a layer wise manner. For example a sensor could be placed on the scalp i.e. electroencephalogram in the subgaleal layer on the skull in the dura mater in the sub dural layer and in the parenchyma i.e. in the frontal lobe occipital lobe parietal lobe temporal lobe to achieve increasing specificity of electrical and chemical activity detection. The sensors could measure the same types of chemical and electrical activity as the sensors placed within or proximal to the target site as described above.

With respect to detecting electrical or chemical activity by sensors located distal to the target site outside the nervous system such sensors may be placed in venous structures and various organs or tissues of other body systems such as the endocrine system muscular system respiratory system circulatory system urinary system integumentary system and digestive system or such sensors may detect signals from these various body systems. For example the sensor may be an external sensor such as a pulse oximeter or an external blood pressure heart and respiratory rate detector. All the above mentioned sensing systems may be employed together or any combination of less than all sensors may be employed together.

After the sensor s detect the relevant bodily activity associated with the medical condition according to the systems of the present invention the sensors generate a sensor signal. The sensor signal is processed by a sensor signal processor which in this embodiment is part of the controller. The controller generates a response to the sensor signal by activating the therapy delivery device to initiate application of the therapy signal or to adjust application of the therapy signal to the target site. The therapy deliver device then applies the therapy signal to the target site. In embodiments where the therapy delivery device is a stimulation lead and the therapy signal is an electrical signal activating the stimulation lead to adjust application of the electrical signal includes terminating increasing decreasing or changing the rate or pattern of a pulsing parameter of the electrical stimulation and the electrical signal can be the respective termination increase decrease or change in rate or pattern of the respective pulsing parameter. In embodiments where the therapy delivery device is a drug port and the therapy signal is a chemical signal activating the drug port to adjust application of the chemical signal can be an indication to terminate increase decrease or change the rate or pattern of the amount or type of chemical agent administered and the chemical signal can be the respective initiation termination increase decrease or change in the rate or pattern of the amount or type of chemical agent administered. The processing of closed loop feedback systems for electrical and chemical stimulation are described in more detail in respective U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 058 331 and 5 711 316 both of which are incorporated by reference herein.

Closed loop electrical stimulation according to the present invention can be achieved by a modified form of an implantable SOLETRA KINETRA RESTORE or SYNERGY signal generator available from Medtronic Minneapolis Minn. as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 353 762 the teaching of which is incorporated herein in its entirety a controller as described in or utilization of CIO DAS 08 and CIO DAC 16 I processing boards and an IBM compatible computer available from Measurement Computing Middleboro Mass. with Visual Basic software for programming of alogorithms. With reference to an illustration of a non limiting example of a controller comprising a microprocessor such as an MSP430 microprocessor from Texas Instruments Technology analog to digital converter such as AD7714 from Analog Devices Corp. pulse generator such as CD1877 from Harris Corporation pulse width control lead driver digital to analog converter such as MAX538 from Maxim Corporation power supply memory and communications port or telemetry chip are shown. Optionally a digital signal processor is used for signal conditioning and filtering. Input leads and and output lead to lead therapeutic delivery device and drug delivery device therapeutic deliver device are also illustrated. Additional stimulation leads sensors and therapeutic delivery devices may be added to the controller as required. As a non limiting example inputs from sensors such as heart rate and blood pressure sensors are input to analog to digital converter . Microprocessor receiving the sensor inputs uses algorithms to analyze the biological activity of the patient and using HD Fuzzy logic or other algorithms computes an output to pulse generator and or drug delivery device drivers and respectively to neuromodulate the target site where the therapeutic delivery devices are placed. The output of analog to digital converter is connected to microprocessor through a peripheral bus including address data and control lines. Microprocessor processes the sensor data in different ways depending on the type of transducer in use. When the signal on the sensor indicates biological activity outside of threshold values for example elevated blood pressure or heart rate programmed by the clinician and stored in a memory the electrical signal applied through output drivers and of the controller will be adjusted. The output voltage or current from the controller are then generated in an appropriately configured form voltage current frequency and applied to the one or more therapeutic delivery devices placed at the target site for a prescribed time period to reduce elevated blood pressure or heart rate. If the patient s blood pressure or heart rate as monitored by the system is not outside of the normal threshold limits hypotensive or hypertensive bradycardic or tachycardic or if the controller output after it has timed out has resulted in a correction of the blood pressure or heart rate to within a predetermined threshold range no further electrical signal is applied to the target site and the controller continues to monitor the patient via the sensors. A block diagram of an algorithm which may be used in the present invention is shown in .

Referring to suitably conditioned and converted sensor data is input to the algorithm in block . The program computes at least one value of at least one biological activity related to a particular medical condition such as for example blood pressure heart rate or cardiac output and compares the measured value of the biological activity to a pre determined range of values which is determined in advance to be the desired therapeutic range of values. This range is programmed into the microprocessor via the telemetry or communications port of the controller. The algorithm compares and then determines whether or not the measured value lies outside the pre determined range of values . If the measured biological activity value is not outside the pre determined range of values the program continues to monitor the sensors and reiterates the comparison part of the algorithm. If the measured biological value is outside of the pre determined range of values a determination or comparison is made as to whether the value is too high or too low compared with the pre determined range. If the biological activity value is too high an adjustment to the therapeutic delivery device is made to lower the biological activity value of the patient by calculating an output signal for pulse generator or drug delivery device to deliver a sufficient amount of the pharmaceutical or electrical stimulation to lower the biological activity of the patient. The algorithm continues to monitor the biological activity following the adjustment. If the biological activity value is too low then an adjustment to the therapeutic delivery device is made to raise the biological activity value by calculating an output signal for the pulse generator or drug delivery device to deliver a sufficient amount of a pharmaceutical or electrical stimulation to raise the biological activity value of the patient. The algorithm continues to monitor the biological activity of the patient following the adjustment. The amount of adjustment made may be determined by proportional integral derivative algorithms of by implementation of Fuzzy logic rules.

With respect to the control of specific electrical parameters the stimulus pulse frequency may be controlled by programming a value to a programmable frequency generator using the bus of the controller. The programmable frequency generator provides an interrupt signal to the microprocessor through an interrupt line when each stimulus pulse is to be generated. The frequency generator may be implemented by model CDP1878 sold by Harris Corporation. The amplitude for each stimulus pulse may be programmed to a digital to analog converter using the controller s bus. The analog output is conveyed through a conductor to an output driver circuit to control stimulus amplitude. The microprocessor of the controller may also program a pulse width control module using the bus. The pulse width control provides an enabling pulse of duration equal to the pulse width via a conductor. Pulses with the selected characteristics are then delivered from signal generator through a cable and lead to the target site or to a device such as a proportional valve or pump. For some types of sensors a microprocessor and analog to digital converter will not be necessary. The output from sensor can be filtered by an appropriate electronic filter in order to provide a control signal for signal generator. An example of such a filter is found in U.S. Pat. No. 5 259 387 Muscle Artifact Filter Issued to Victor de Pinto on Nov. 9 1993 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

At the time the therapy delivery device is implanted the clinician programs certain key parameters into the memory of the implanted device via telemetry. These parameters may be updated subsequently as needed. The clinician may also program the the range of values for pulse width amplitude and frequency which the therapy delivery device may use to optimize the therapy. The clinician may also choose the order in which the parameter changes are made. Alternatively the clinician may elect to use default values or the microprocessor may be programmed to use fuzzy logic rules and algorithms to determine output from the therapeutic delivery device to the patient based on sensor data and threshold values for the biological activity.

Although the application of sensors to detect bodily activity are part of embodiments of systems of the present invention the present invention also contemplates the relevant bodily activity to be detected without sensors. In such case the neuromodulation parameters are adjusted manually in response to the clinical course of the disease or reporting by the patient.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method of stabilizing and or optimizing bodily functions augmenting function and treating the various diseases disorders listed in Table I by placing a therapy delivery device on a target site of the sympathetic nervous system and preferably a target site in communication with a sympathetic nerve chain and activating the therapy delivery device to apply a therapy signal electrical and or chemical signal to the target site to stabilize and or optimize the bodily function as well as to enhance augment normalize regulate control and or improve the normal and abnormal functioning of the various body organs structures systems for example heart lung gastrointestinal genitourinary vascular and other systems that are innervated by the sympathetic nervous system. This method can be performed in the operating room procedure room or imaging MRI CT X ray fluoroscopy or optical imaged guided suite. The procedures can be carried out peri operative or post operative to a surgical operation as well as in an intensive care unit and any other commonly utilized in patient and out patient capacities. Preferably the surgical operation includes procedures that may require heart bypass equipment procedures that may require a respiratory ventilator or surgeries where intravenous medications are used during and after surgery to influence cardiac and or pulmonary function. In an alternative embodiment this method is performed in a non surgical setting where intravenous medications are used for sedation analgesia and to stabilize cardiac function such as in the setting of myocardial infarction.

The present invention also provides a method for minimizing or resolving side effects and morbidity associated with other therapies used for various disorders including medications surgery chemotherapy and radiation.

Neuromodulation of the target sites of the present invention can be temporary or short term such as less than 10 days intermediate 10 30 days or chronic greater than 30 days . Further the target sites can be accessed using any of the current approaches used by neurosurgeons spinal surgeons cardio thoracic surgeons vascular surgeons abdominal surgeons GU surgeons ENT surgeons plastic surgeons as well as interventional radiologists neurologists pain management specialists rehabilitation and physical therapy specialists and anesthesiologists. The procedures involves direct and indirect placement of the therapy delivery device. This can be achieved using percutaneous endoscopic intravascular or open surgical approach. Furthermore all these approaches can be guided by imaging means of MRI CT X ray fluoroscopy optical imaging. A variety of approaches are available and practiced routinely by the group of specialists listed above. Non limiting and commonly employed procedures are posterior paravertebral thoracic sympathectomy thoracoscopic sympathectomy and retroperitoneal lumbar sympathectomy. Reference is made to Surgical Management of Pain Thieme Medical Publishers Inc. RD 595.5.587 2001 incorporated in its entirety herein by reference thereto for further details. For open surgery anterior supraclavicular transaxillary and posterior paravertebral approaches can be used.

A non limiting example of a method of placing a therapy delivery device on a target site of the sympathetic nervous system will now be described. Referring to a patient is illustrated in the decubitus position where the hips of the patient are preferably below the flexion joint of the operating room table. Subsequent flexion of the table allows some separation of the ribs by dropping the patient s hips and therefore increasing the intercostal space to work through. The ipsilateral arm is abducted on an arm holder. Rotating the table somewhat anteriorly and using reverse Trendelenburg positioning further maximizes the exposure to the superior paravertebral area by allowing the soon to be deflated lung see to fall away from the apical posterior chest wall. This is the preferred position of the patient prior to performing the procedure as this position exposes the vertebral bodies where the sympathetic nerve chain lies extrapleurally.

The procedure begins with placing the patient under general anesthesia and intubated via a double lumen endotracheal tube. The double lumen endotracheal tube permits ventilation of one lung and collapse of the other lung that is to be operated upon without using carbon dioxide insufflation. One incision is made in the midaxillary line in the fifth intercostal space that is identified as port . Port can be used for various reasons but it is preferred that port is used as a telescopic video port which will provide video assistance during the procedure. While under endoscopic observation a second incision is made in the third or fourth intercostal space at the anterior axillary line that is identified as port . Port is preferably used as an instrument channel. A third incision is made at the posterior axillary line just below the scapular tip in the fifth interspace that is identified as port . Port is preferably used as a second instrument channel. Preferably the three incisions made during the thoracoscopic sympathectomy are approximately 2 cm in length. Additional incisions i.e. ports can be made as necessary.

Referring to in which axial cross section and exposed views of the surgical sites are provided respectively the surgical exposure and preparation of the relevant portion of the sympathetic nerve chain for the treatment of various physiological and pathological conditions is described. After the lung is collapsed and if necessary retracted down by a fanning instrument via one of the working ports the sympathetic nerve chain is visualized under the parietal pleura as a raised longitudinal structure located at the junction of the ribs and the vertebral bodies . The parietal pleura is grasped between the first and second ribs in the region overlying the sympathetic nerve chain and scissors or endoscopic cautery is used to incise the parietal pleura in a vertical manner just below the first rib thereby exposing the sympathetic nerve chain .

Referring now to in which the implantation of a multichannel stimulation lead at a specific location of the sympathetic nerve chain is shown the implantation of the stimulation lead is now described. Once the sympathetic nerve chain has been exposed a multichannel stimulation lead is implanted adjacent to a predetermined site along the sympathetic nerve chain that is associated with the physiological disorder or pathological condition being treated. The stimulation lead is sutured in place to the nearby tissue or parietal pleura . The vicinity of the sympathetic nerve chain for which the stimulation lead is positioned depends on the physiological disorder or pathological condition being treated.

The influence of the neuromodulation of the systems and methods of the present invention can be manifested as changes in biological activity. For example with respect to treating cardiovascular medical conditions such changes include changes in heart rate heart rhythm blood flow to the heart and cardiac contractility. These changes are reflected physiologically by parameters such as for example heart rate blood pressure cardiac output stroke volume pulmonary wedge pressure and venous pressure all of which can be measured. Preferably the neuromodulation allows for selective changes in one or more aspects of the target organ whose function is being influenced without influencing or minimally influencing other functions of the target organ. For example cardiac function may be selectively influenced by varying the parameters of stimulation such that cardiac contractility is affected but not heart rate.

The influence of neuromodulation of this method of the present invention on the respiratory system for example can be manifested in respiratory rate changes in elasticity of the lung tissue changes in diameter of the bronchioles and other structures in the respiratory branches perfusion and diffusion of blood and its products at the level of the alveoli and blood flow to the lungs. These changes are reflected physiologically by parameters such as for example respiratory rate pH of blood bicarbonate level ventilatory volume lung capacity and blood oxygenation.

The foregoing description has been set forth merely to illustrate the invention and isnot intended as being limiting. Each of the disclosed aspects and embodiments of the present invention may be considered individually or in combination with other aspects embodiments and variations of the invention. In addition unless otherwise specified none of the steps of the methods of the present invention are confined to any particular order of performance. Modifications of the disclosed embodiments incorporating the spirit and substance of the invention may occur to persons skilled in the art and such modifications are within the scope of the present invention. For example although methods of treating specific medical conditions are described with respect to electrical and chemical neuromodulation other modes of neuromodulation can be used such as light magnetism sound pressure and heat cold. Furthermore all references cited herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety.

