---

title: Wireless video monitoring on a mobile device
abstract: A mobile device management system including a method for monitoring a remote video camera and event scheduling, synchronization and modification using location information. Video from a remote camera is encoded by a computer and streamed in real time over a network to a mobile device for decoding and display. The computer encoder and mobile device decoder are software-based. Event calendar and schedule information is incorporated, shared and automatically updated among multiple mobile devices. Location information, such as from a locator network or a satellite-based global positioning system, is used to provide real time updates to a mobile device calendar or event schedule. A map or other indicia of the location of other mobile devices may be provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08897375&OS=08897375&RS=08897375
owner: Pluto Technologies, Inc.
number: 08897375
owner_city: Carlsbad
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100503
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 10 430 197 filed on May 5 2003 the entire content of which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to mobile communication systems and in particular relates to a mobile device management system.

The industrialized world is becoming increasingly reliant on mobile technologies such as wireless voice and data transmission. In addition to voice and data transmission users now demand useful and innovative video and multimedia applications that are supported by their cell phones and personal digital assistants PDAs . One video application that would be of particular utility to a mobile device user is the ability to view and monitor feed from a remote video camera on their mobile device. The delivery of live video feed generally requires broadband transmission media capable of supporting a very high data rate signal. Wireless systems however are typically characterized by lower device processing power and channels having reduced bandwidth and lower reliability. Hence the receipt and display of video feed from a remote camera on a mobile device is difficult to achieve over a wireless link.

Mobile device users also demand reliable and innovative mechanisms for updating personal data such as calendar and scheduling information that is stored on their mobile devices. The ability to update calendar and schedule information with real time location information about other mobile device users with whom the user is scheduled to or desires to interact would be particularly invaluable. Typically however personal data stored on a mobile device is updated via synchronization with a larger system such as a server or personal computer. The mobile device usually must be cabled to the system for update of personal data and calendar information and the updates are often user initiated rather than system driven or automatic. Real time automatic updating of calendar information incorporating location information about other mobile devices is not provided by current systems.

One aspect of the invention is a system for monitoring a remote camera on a mobile device. Live video images from the remote camera are captured and streamed in real time over a network to the mobile device. The images may be encoded prior to streaming with a software based encoder and decoded by the mobile device using a software based video decoder. Control signals may be sent from the mobile device to the camera to remotely control the camera. Modifications to standard video compression and streaming protocols are provided to better suit a mobile device environment.

Another aspect of this invention is a system for mobile device event management using location and calendar information. Calendar and location information is shared among multiple devices and used to schedule re schedule and manage events. The relative proximity of the mobile devices may be displayed.

Additional features aspects and improvements of this invention will be apparent after review of the following figures and detailed description and are intended to be within the scope of this invention and protected by the accompanying claims.

The present invention provides a comprehensive system for mobile device management. It includes a system for monitoring receiving and displaying video feed from a remote camera on a mobile device and a system for real time mobile device event management using calendar and location information. Drawbacks associated with existing event scheduling methodologies are overcome by incorporating real time location information and video feed into a robust system of mobility management that has application in several practical areas including surveillance safety and security.

Referring to mobile device is coupled to cell network over air interface . Computer delivers a live video image from camera to mobile device via network connection packet switched network and cell network . Cell network can be a public or private cellular network providing the necessary architecture for mobile call maintenance including base station subsystem s mobile switching center s location registries and other infrastructure components. In one embodiment cell network is a public wireless wide area network W WAN supporting one or more multiple access schemes i.e. TDMA CDMA etc. and coupled to the Internet.

Packet switched network is a public or private wide area network WAN or local area network LAN supporting transport services for delivering video packets between camera and mobile device . In one embodiment network is a private intranet supporting a proprietary packet transport mechanism. In another embodiment network is the Internet and supports the transmission control protocol TCP and Internet protocol IP . In this embodiment computer is configured with either a static or dynamic IP address. Mobile device can be manually configured with the IP address of computer or configured to receive the IP address of computer dynamically using for example the short message service SMS protocol to communicate the IP addressing information.

Network connection can use a variety of data communication technologies to connect computer to packet switched network . If network is the Internet computer can connect to Internet using an Internet service provider ISP under a variety of connectivity options including cable digital subscriber line DSL or asynchronous dial up access over the public switched telephone network PSTN using a conventional modem. Network connection can also be a high speed dedicated circuit running between an ISP and computer . Network connection can itself incorporate a wireless data communication link. The test results described were achieved using a cable modem to connect between computer and packet switched network Internet .

Mobile device may be one of many widely available wireless communication devices such as a cellular telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a laptop personal computer equipped with a wireless modem or even a smart mobile television. Exemplary implementations of mobile device include a Sharp code division multiple access CDMA cellular telephone used by the inventors as a prototype and a Palm handheld device with wireless capability. System supports true device independence and is uniquely tailored to run on nearly all third generation CDMA phones on the market.

Mobile device is preferably configured with a software video decoder for decoding video signals. Mobile device may also be configured with a software video encoder for encoding and transmitting video control information. By implementing the encoding and decoding processes in software system is device and processor independent. In other words viewing a video bit stream is possible on any mobile device because the video decoder and encoder are implemented in software rather than embedded or hard coded for operation on a particular wireless device chipset.

Use of an application programming interface API provides the abstraction layer needed to support device and processor independence. Function calls from decoder can be written to conform to a particular API such as Sun Microsystems Inc. s Java 2 micro edition J2ME or Qualcomm Inc. s binary runtime environment for wireless BREW instead of to a particular chip i.e. processor . If the encoding and decoding software is written in BREW for example the video decoder and encoder can be loaded and run on any mobile device that supports BREW. An API such as BREW is also useful for providing the necessary IP connectivity. Video decoder can be written to pass IP related function calls to the BREW API which will then handle the details of establishing a link between mobile device and computer .

The achievable frame rate video rendering quality and performance are functions of the processing power and memory at the disposal of mobile device . For delay sensitive live video feed for example a relatively fast processor is needed to eliminate frame latency. During a system test the inventors achieved six frames per second using an advanced RISC machine ARM 7 processor with 100 kilobytes of RAM embedded in a Qualcomm MSM 3100 chipset in a prototype Sharp CDMA cell phone.

Video encoder may send control data over cell network and packet switched network to computer to control camera . Hence a mobile user can remotely control basic camera functions such as pan zoom and tilt from device . Video encoder is preferably a software based video encoder loaded into RAM . A mobile device including both decoder and encoder supports full duplex operation with live video feed in one direction from camera to mobile device and control information in the other direction from mobile device to camera .

The protocol used to stream video can be a standard packet based video compression protocol such as the MPEG4 video compression standard modified to control special features and limitations of the present invention. The video frame flow control mechanism is modified to accommodate the relatively limited amount of mobile device frame buffer space that is available. Device waits until assembly of a complete multi packet video frame is complete before signaling computer typically with a one byte header to send another frame. Computer waits for receipt of this header before sending another video frame to the mobile device. This differs from conventional TCP protocol and is advantageous because MPEG4 video decoding is resource and bandwidth intensive while device is typically bandwidth limited. The prototype CDMA phone used in the inventors tests for example had a useable 14 kilobits per second of bandwidth.

Since a typical mobile device will lack the storage capacity to permanently store an incoming video image or stream another important feature of system is configuring the size and resolution of mobile device display to best take advantage of the available storage capacity. Display may be an LCD panel having a resolution large enough to accurately distinguish and render a video image. In one embodiment display is a color display capable of supporting an MPEG4 compressed video bit stream. Other display technologies and display enhancements commonly found on wireless devices such as windowing and backlighting are supported by system . The video display features of the API that is used such as BREW can be employed to effect display of the video image. Satisfactory results were achieved in a laboratory prototype developed by the inventors that included a cell phone having a 256 color 8 bit 128 144 pixel display supporting a video image having a frame size of 128 pixels tall by 96 pixels wide.

A computer system including computer and camera is illustrated in more detail in . Computer preferably has a software based video encoder and may be configured to operate as a video server. This is a significant departure from streaming video systems which employ hardware based video encoders. A software video encoder provides many advantages including efficient resource utilization and no special hardware requirements. So long as it has the minimum components needed to load and run a software video encoder computer may be a conventional desktop computer including components such as a processor a dynamic memory RAM and a static memory ROM coupled via a bus or other communication mechanism. An external storage device such as a magnetic or optical disk input output devices such as a keyboard and a monitor and a network adapter such as a network interface card NIC may also be coupled to computer .

Video camera may be any camera capable of capturing and streaming a video image to computer for transmission to mobile device . Connectivity between computer and camera can be a simple universal serial bus USB or other serial cable connector. The video generated by camera may be a still image such as an image presentable in PEG format or a component of a live streaming video feed such as a feed presentable in MPEG4 format.

As mentioned computer is preferably configured with a software video encoder stored in the dynamic memory or RAM . As described with respect to mobile device hardware independence is achieved by the use of a software based decoder. The video decoding software is written to a particular operating system API such as Microsoft Windows or Linux rather than embedded or hard coded for operation on a particular processor. The prototype computer used by the inventors included an Intel Pentium III processor running Microsoft Windows .

Computer may be deployed in a client server environment having multiple mobile devices video cameras and servers. Mobile device typically acts as a client video decoder and computer acts as a server video encoder . Additionally as described mobile device may include software based video encoder for transmitting camera control signals to computer .

Several modes of operation are envisioned. In a live mode the mobile user may simply view live video feed in real time. In a history mode computer may assemble and deliver to mobile device a summary file containing images of significant activity only. Timestamps may accompany the images logged in the summary file. A motion detector for example may be coupled to or proximate camera and only those portions of video feed in which motion occurs would be deemed significant by computer and added to the summary file. In an alert mode a real time alert along with video feed may be provided to the mobile device user upon motion detection. The history and alert modes are very useful for security and surveillance applications.

Another aspect of this invention is a system and method for real time mobile device event scheduling synchronization and modification using location information. Intelligent event calendar and schedule information is incorporated and shared among multiple mobile devices. A first mobile device updates its calendar event schedule by obtaining location and calendar information from a second mobile device. The location information may be obtained with the assistance of a global positioning system GPS and used to graphically represent the location of the second mobile device on the display of the first mobile device. Audible or visible indicia of the proximity of the second device can also be provided such as by a beeping sound or an LED.

The peer to peer implementation of system depicted in is effective for managing events such as schedule creation and synchronization between two mobile devices and . A server could also be added to system to permit shared calendar and event synchronization update and modification among many users.

Mobile device like mobile device may be any of a wide array of mobile communication products including cellular telephones personal digital assistants portable personal computers with wireless capability and the like. Likewise channel may be any of a large number of wireless air interfaces available for establishing a wireless link. For example channel can be a public or private W WAN or W LAN such as a personal communication service PCS network using CDMA a global system for mobile communication GSM network using time division multiple access TDMA and or even a local wireless personal area network PAN incorporating Bluetooth technology.

In step the first mobile device obtains the location of the second mobile device. Step can be performed for example by location query module . The location information may be obtained using a global positioning system GPS and may take the form of latitude or longitude data. This information is used to determine the relative proximity of the second mobile device to the first mobile device. In step the event manager of the first mobile device schedules an event based on the location and calendar information obtained from the second mobile device.

Event management may include checking the status of and updating an existing event. Method steps can be used by a first mobile device for example to determine whether the user of a second mobile device will be on time to a scheduled event. By considering the current time the time that the event is scheduled and the relative proximity of the two devices it can be determined whether a scheduled event will be late step . If the second user will be late but the event can still proceed step the user of the first querying mobile device may be alerted that the scheduled event is going to be late or cancelled and the relative proximity of the second mobile device can be displayed step . If the event is going to be missed completely in step the two mobile devices can coordinate a re scheduling of the event.

Not all steps of method will are performed in each instance. When a mobile device contacts another mobile device to schedule an event in the distant future for example steps and may be omitted since it is only necessary to determine the other device s availability. Its current location is not relevant so far in advance of the event. Likewise a device may sometimes be interested only in the current location of another device and not in its calendar information.

Method may also be used to track the location proximity of another mobile device. This location proximity information may be displayed in a simple fashion for example by analyzing the longitude latitude information of each party scaling this information to the device display size and then displaying relative proximity through the use of spaced dots. More complex displays may be used if device display and capability permits. Location boundaries may be established for a first mobile device and an alert may be provided to a second mobile device if the first mobile device has left those boundaries. This can be extremely useful for monitoring children and pets for example.

On his way to work father s mobile device is queried by son s mobile device for his availability to attend son s soccer game that night at 6 p.m. i.e. step in . From father s calendar information son s mobile device determines that father is available step and the event B is scheduled on father s mobile device step .

When father arrives at his office father again synchronizes the calendar information stored in his mobile device this time with the information stored in his office calendar . Office calendar may be stored in for example father s office computer. Synchronization may be performed in a known matter over a cable or wireless link. Two more events are added to the calendar information stored in father s mobile device event C a staff meeting at 1 00 p.m. and event D a conference call at 4 00 p.m.

As the day progresses and son s soccer game draws near son s mobile device automatically queries and obtains the location of father s mobile device to determine whether father will be on time for son s soccer game. If for example father s 4 00 p.m. conference call runs late the location query module of son s mobile device will note that father s mobile device is still located at father s office and can provide an alert on son s mobile device display that father will likely be late. Son s mobile device may also modify its stored calendar information to reflect the fact that father will be late.

When father leaves his conference call he becomes delayed in a traffic jam. The location query module of son s mobile device notes the location of father s mobile device and alerts son s mobile device that father is running even later or perhaps will miss the game entirely. Father s mobile device conversely can help father make the game by providing a suggestion for a less congested alternate route with real time directions and a visual map of the alternate route. Such information may be obtained from the Internet for example. Son s mobile device may display the relative proximity of father s mobile device and when son s location query module confirms that father s mobile device is within a defined proximity i.e. within five miles of the soccer field it may cause son s mobile device to issue an appropriate alert i.e. beeping flashing vibrating etc. .

Father s mobile device event scheduler may also be configured to issue alerts to the mobile devices of all users with whom he is scheduled to meet in the event that father s schedule unexpectedly changes. If father is called away on an emergency business trip for example father s mobile device may automatically alert son s mobile device that father will miss son s soccer game entirely.

Real time location information is typically gathered using a locator network of fixed location devices such as cellular base stations. In rural or obstructed urban areas however there may be no base station coverage. While a GPS reading may be possible in these areas some locations are impenetrable even to a satellite such as in the basement of a high rise building. Thus the present invention contemplates extending the physical reach of real time event scheduling through the use of strategically placed locator networks.

A network of fixed location devices is provided throughout building to extend the range of wireless coverage so that the systems and methods for wireless device event scheduling can be effectively deployed in a locale. In each floor as well as the parking garage is shown as having a fixed location device . Fixed location devices may be any intelligent device that can be networked together to enable end to end wireless communication with another device. They will typically employ a short range wireless technology such as wireless LAN Bluetooth or the like. Fixed location devices may be implemented in for example a vending machine network interconnected to feed location information on mobile device back through the cellular network via a direct connection to the cell core or via a fixed location that is within the coverage area of network . As mobile device transits building its location is tracked by the fixed location devices and ultimately relayed back to cellular network enabling real time event scheduling and updating to continue even while device is outside the coverage area of a traditional wireless network.

The use of fixed location devices in the context of an office building is just one example of the range extending aspects of the present invention. In rural areas without cellular coverage location and other information from one mobile device could be passed from car to car via fixed location equipment contained in the cars via a wireless LAN module Bluetooth or other short range technology until one car carrying the information enters the range of a cellular network and the information is able to hop on to the network. VoIP could possibly be used to transmit voice signals in such situations as well.

Combining these two examples a backpacker s mobile device might attempt to send location or calendar information in a rural area with no coverage and little auto traffic. The rural area might have however a vending machine equipped with a fixed location short range wireless device. The vending machine stores the backpackers information until a passing car also equipped with a fixed location device receives the backpacker s data from the vending machine and then passes it to other cars one eventually entering the coverage area of a cellular network.

Other types of valuable information might also be conveyed in this manner. In the event of an auto accident for instance emergency signals might be sent from car to car via wireless LAN modules or the like from the point of the accident to warn approaching cars of the accident ahead and to alert police and emergency personnel. Automobiles might also be equipped with a camera and appropriate computer hardware including a video encoder as previously described. In the event of a car theft live images of the thief as well as location information could be conveyed to law enforcement authorities in the manner described to help to quickly thwart the crime. Cameras may be configured to take photographs both inside and outside the automobile to assist in identification and location determination. Combined with the examples described above a thief could not escape the law even by driving into a parking garage assuming it is equipped with fixed location devices . In the example of an automobile it should be noted that locator devices such as OnStar from OnStar Corp. could alternately be used to provide the location information.

The information gathered using the mobile device event scheduling and location determination techniques of this invention may be used in additional advantageous ways. A mobile device may be provided with appropriate software to track and store this calendar and location information and to thereby gradually learn the habits likes and dislikes of the device user. The device may learn for example when its user leaves for work how the user drives to work and when and how it returns home. The device may learn where and at what time the user likes to each lunch. Eventually the mobile device can develop a knowledge based personality that reflects the user s personality and might even make suggestions to the user. If the user is in an unfamiliar city for example the device may know that the user likes Chinese food from his many scheduled lunches at Chinese restaurants for example and may obtain information from the Internet about nearby Chinese restaurants and their locations. Based on this information the device can suggest and schedule a lunch at a nearby Chinese restaurant.

This knowledge based application of the present invention can be extended to applications other than conventional mobile communication devices. One s dog could be equipped with a wireless collar for example that tracks the dog s location as well as gathers data indicative of the dogs health. Where warranted the collar could automatically generate a recommendation that a vet appointment be scheduled and query the owner s mobile device as described to recommend an appointment time. Similarly an Alzheimer s patient could be tracked using a wirelessly equipped wristband to feed location information back to a caregiver s event scheduler perhaps to know when a medication dose is next needed.

Numerous embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described herein. It should be understood however that these have been presented by way of example only and not as limitations. The breadth and scope of the present invention is defined by the following claims and their equivalents and is not limited by the particular embodiments described herein.

