---

title: Dynamic mobile application quality-of-service monitor
abstract: Technologies are generally described for determining a quality-of-service of mobile applications. In some examples, a process for determining a quality-of-service of a mobile application executing on a mobile device coupled to a network includes collecting, by a mobile monitoring application (MMA), network usage measurements associated with multiple network communication sessions from a first network communication layer, wherein the multiple network communication sessions are conducted via the network and are associated with the mobile device. The process may also include evaluating, by the MMA, the collected network usage measurements to determine application-specific usage data associated with the mobile application, and determining, by the MMA, the quality-of-service of the mobile application based on the application-specific usage data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09629012&OS=09629012&RS=09629012
owner: EMPIRE TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT LLC
number: 09629012
owner_city: Wilmington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100920
---
This application is the U.S. National Stage filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application No. PCT SG2010 00354 filed Sep. 20 2010.

In the field of computer networking which includes packet switching networks it is a constant challenge to allocate limited amount of resources to serve as many applications and devices on a network as possible. For example for a network application to function properly it may require a certain amount of network throughput as well as a guarantee that any delays jitters packet droppings or bit error probabilities associated with the network application are below a certain threshold level. It is often insufficient to allocate resources for a network application to adequately support some services while neglecting other services. To illustrate suppose a video streaming application is configured to operate at a high bit rate. Such an application may still encounter adoption issues if a high level of jitters or errors are present in the streaming data.

One approach to guarantee a high level of performance and service quality for example providing high bit rate low latency and low bit error rate is to quickly detect and address any actual or potential problems in a network communication session. However merely examining a single aspect of the network communication session e.g. bit rate may not be sufficient to adequately address the performance problems associated with the network communication session.

In accordance with at least some embodiments of the present disclosure a method for determining a quality of service is presented. In an example the method may include receiving from a mobile monitoring application MMA executing on a mobile device network usage measurements associated with a network communication session over a first network communication layer executing on the mobile device wherein the network usage measurements are indicative of mobile application data received by the mobile device. The method may also include evaluating the network usage measurements to determine application specific usage data associated with the mobile application and determining the quality of service of the mobile application based on the application specific usage data.

In accordance with other embodiments of the present disclosure a method for determining a quality of service is presented. In an example the method may include invoking by a mobile application a mobile monitoring application MMA via an application programming interface API supported by the MMA wherein the MMA is configured to execute on a mobile device and monitor multiple mobile applications executing on the mobile device. The method also includes collecting by the MMA network usage measurements associated with the mobile application wherein the network usage measurements are indicative of mobile application data received by the mobile device and determining the quality of service of the mobile application based on the collected usage measurements.

In accordance with at least some embodiments of the present disclosure a mobile device may include a mobile application configured to execute on the mobile device. The mobile device may further include a monitoring application configured to execute on the mobile device and monitor the mobile application during communication via a network. The monitoring application may further be configured to collect network usage measurements from a network communication session conducted via the network and indicative of mobile application data received by the mobile device and evaluate the collected network usage measurements to determine application specific usage data associated with the mobile application and determine the quality of service of the mobile application based on the application specific usage data wherein the application specific usage data is operable to determine the quality of service of the mobile application.

The foregoing summary is illustrative only and is not intended to be in any way limiting. In addition to the illustrative aspects embodiments and features described above further aspects embodiments and features will become apparent by reference to the drawings and the following detailed description.

In the following detailed description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof. In the drawings similar symbols typically identify similar components unless context dictates otherwise. The illustrative embodiments described in the detailed description drawings and claims are not meant to be limiting. Other embodiments may be utilized and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the subject matter presented here. It will be readily understood that the aspects of the present disclosure as generally described herein and illustrated in the FIGS. can be arranged substituted combined and designed in a wide variety of different configurations all of which are explicitly contemplated herein.

This disclosure is drawn inter alia to methods apparatus computer programs and systems related to dynamic mobile application quality of service monitoring and reporting. Throughout the disclosure the term quality of service or QoS may broadly refer to the quality of a network communication session in terms of bandwidth signal to noise ratios bit error rate latency packet losses or other performance measurements across different network segments e.g. access metro or core segments . Thus the quality of service of an application executing on a computing device may correspond to the quality of the network communication session experienced by such an application.

The term network usage measurements may broadly refer to performance status or exception information associated with one or more network communication sessions. Some example performance and status information may include without limitation application usage bandwidth network layer and protocol utilization port mappings packet statistics or routing tables. Some example exception information may include without limitation packet loss packet retransmissions bit error rate error bursts signal to noise ratio noise margin or error correction code data. Furthermore the network usage measurements may be associated with multiple mobile applications. That is the network usage measurements may be collected for a single network connection when the multiple mobile applications are simultaneously conducting network communications through this network connection.

The term application specific usage data may broadly refer to a set of network usage data that are derived from the network usage measurements and are associated with a specific mobile application. As described above the network usage measurements collected from a networking device may be generated by multiple mobile applications. In some embodiments some of the network usage measurements that are associated with a specific mobile application may first be identified. The identified network usage measurements may reflect the specific mobile application s networking activities and may be highly relevant in analyzing the performance of the specific mobile application. These identified network usage measurements may be further analyzed to generate the application specific usage data. For example the analysis may generate a maximum minimum average or median network throughput value for the particular mobile application. In alternative embodiments the identified network usage measurements may be deemed the application specific usage data without any further analysis. Based on the application specific usage data a quality of service value for the specific mobile application may be generated.

In some embodiments the mobile device may be configured to communicate with other applications and or devices in a network environment. Some examples of the mobile device may include without limitation a Personal Digital Assistant PDA cell phone smart phone tablet computer laptop computer netbook or other network appliance capable of communicating over the network . The mobile device may support various mobile telecommunication standards such as without limitation Global System for Mobile communication GSM Code Division Multiple Access CDMA or Time Division Multiple Access TDMA .

In some embodiments the mobile OS may provide functions to and support communication standards for the mobile device . Some examples of the mobile OS may include without limitation Symbian RIM Blackberry Apple iPhone Windows Mobile or Google Android . The mobile OS may also provide a common programming platform or executing environment for the mobile applications and the MMA .

In some embodiments the MMA may monitor the mobile applications and interact with an application experience monitoring system AEMS . The AEMS may contain among other things a quality of service QoS analysis module one or more processors and a memory . The MMA and the AEMS may analyze the data communication between the mobile applications and the mobile application server and determine quality of service values for the mobile applications . The quality of service values may be further aggregated and or processed for reporting or for detecting network communication problems.

In some embodiments the mobile applications may perform networking functions such as telephony email text messaging web browsing and or other functions such as audio video playing digital picture video capturing uploading of data content downloading of data content etc. Some examples of the mobile applications may include without limitation Voice over IP VoIP web browsing audio and or video streaming gaming and other networking related applications. During operation the mobile applications may communicate with their respective mobile application servers via the network .

In some embodiments the network may be without limitation a wireless network such as mobile device network e.g. GSM CDMA or TDMA wireless local area network WLAN wireless Metropolitan area network WMAN or the like or any combination thereof. The network may also be a wired network such as local area network LAN wide area network WAN metropolitan area network MAN global area network such as the Internet a Fibre Channel fabric or any combination of such interconnects. Network communications such as HTTP requests responses Wireless Application Protocol WAP messages Mobile Terminated MT Short Message Service SMS messages Mobile Originated MO SMS messages or any type of network messages may be exchanged among the devices coupled to the network .

In some embodiments the mobile application server may communicate with the mobile applications to provide different types of services such as without limitation telephony email text messaging or real time audio video streaming services to the multiple mobile devices .

In some embodiments the MMA individually and or in combination with the AEMS may determine the quality of service of the mobile applications communicating with the mobile application server via the network . The MMA can perform functions such as determining the types of the mobile applications that are available in the mobile device detecting the initialization and execution of the mobile applications collecting the network usage measurements of the mobile applications and or determining the quality of service of the mobile applications . The details of the MMA are further described below.

In some embodiments the AEMS may be configured as a server or a router coupled to the network and may communicate with the one or more MMAs executing on the one or more mobile devices . The QoS analysis module of the AEMS may receive network usage measurements and quality of service values from the one or more MMAs . Afterward the QoS analysis module may determine the quality of service of the mobile applications executing on their respective mobile devices in real time. The resulting quality of service values may be reported to the Telco service provider the providers of the mobile application server and or the mobile devices for by way of example status reporting feature enhancement or debugging purposes. In some embodiments the MMAs may be executing on the AEMS monitoring and communicating with their respective mobile devices via the mobile network . The details of the AEMS and the QoS analysis module are further described below.

In some embodiments the processor may generally control the operations of the AEMS in performing QoS monitoring and reporting and the memory may be configured to store the data transmitted to or received from the network .

In some embodiments the mobile device protocol stack may contain a mobile application layer an operating system layer a network layer a data link layer and a physical layer all according to various known network communication standards. Further the mobile device protocol stack may contain additional or different network communication layers based on the networking functions that need to be supported.

In some embodiments the MMA may invoke different network utility tools to collect network usage measurements from the network communication layers . Alternatively the MMA may contain programming logic to listen to i.e. monitor different communication channels and ports and collect the network usage measurements at the different network communication layers . For example the MMA may execute a network utility tool similar to UNIX s ps command at the operating system layer to retrieve a list of mobile applications executing on the mobile device. The outcomes of the ps like network utility tool may contain network usage measurements such as without limitation process names process IDs and system resource usages. Similarly the MMA may use a netstat like network utility tool in a MS WINDOWS environment to collect TCP IP metrics from the network layer . The MMA may use similar network utility tools to collect from the network layers additional TCP IP network usage measurements which may include without limitation name of the protocols associated with the network communication sessions local address foreign address and the port number used during the network communication sessions.

In some embodiments the network usage measurements collected from the network layer may be originated from multiple network communication sessions and may be associated with various mobile applications executing on the mobile device. To better measure the performance of a specific mobile application the MMA may process the collected network usage measurements by extracting a subset of the network usage measurements related to a specific mobile application and use the subset of the network usage measurements to determine the application specific usage data for the specific mobile application. The MMA may then use the application specific usage data to determine a quality of service value for the specific mobile application.

In some embodiments the subset of the network usage measurements may be extracted from the entire set of network usage measurements using one or more identifiers that can be used to uniquely identify the specific mobile application. In some instances each collected network usage measurement may contain a single identifier which may be sufficient for identifying the mobile application that is responsible for the network usage measurement. In this case the subset of the network usage measurements may be extracted from the entire set of network usage measurements using the single identifier. In other instances each network usage measurement may contain multiple identifiers which may be sufficient for identifying the mobile application. These multiple identifiers may then be used to extract the subset of measurements from the entire set of network usage measurements. In some further instances the one or more identifiers contained in the collected network usage measurements may not be sufficient for identifying specific mobile applications. In this case the MMA may use associations to ascertain additional identifiers based on the one or more identifiers and employ the additional identifiers to identify the specific mobile application and extract the subset of network usage measurements.

Elaborating on the description above the network usage measurements collected from the operating system layer may contain a process ID . The process ID may be sufficient for identifying a specific mobile application executing on the mobile device. By filtering the network usage measurements collected from the operating system layer using the process ID the MMA may extract the subset of network usage measurements which is associated with the specific mobile application from the entire set of network usage measurements which is for all the mobile applications executing on the mobile device . The MMA may further analyze and process the subset of network usage measurements to generate the application specific usage data.

In some instances the network usage measurements collected from the network layer may not contain a single identifier such as a process name or a process ID. Rather they may contain multiple identifiers which are sufficient for identifying the specific mobile application. For example if the specific mobile application s network communication port and destination address e.g. a port number destination address are known and unique then the port number the destination address may be deemed the multiple identifiers that can be used to identify the specific mobile application. To illustrate suppose a browser mobile application is the only mobile application in the mobile device accessing a web site www.cnn.com via the port . Then any network usage measurement that is associated with the port and the destination address for www.cnn.com may be related to the browser mobile application. In other words based on the multiple identifiers e.g. the port number destination address a subset of network usage measurements for the specific mobile application may be identified and extracted from the entire set of network usage measurements.

In other instances the network usage measurements collected from the different network communication layers may contain different identifiers and some network usage measurements collected from a particular network communication layer may contain one or more identifiers that are insufficient for identifying the specific mobile application. In this case the MMA may try to ascertain additional identifiers that are related to the one or more identifiers and use the additional identifiers to identify the specific mobile application. For example assume the network usage measurements collected from the operating system layer may contain a single identifier process ID . The network usage measurements collected from the network layer may contain multiple identifiers port number destination address . The network usage measurements collected from the data link layer may contain a physical destination address e.g. MAC address . And the network usage measurements collected from the physical layer may contain a fast path slow path . In some embodiments the physical destination address or the fast path slow path may be the identifiers that are insufficient for identifying the specific mobile application by themselves.

In some embodiments the physical destination address may have an association with additional identifiers e.g. port number destination address . An association may be a relationship between two different sets of identifiers. In other words when the physical destination address is uniquely related to the destination address of the port number destination address and when the specific mobile application may be identified using the port number destination address the specific mobile application may be identified using the identifier physical destination address and the identifiers port number destination address which are obtained via the association .

Similarly when the port number destination address are not sufficient for identifying the specific mobile application and there is an association between the port number destination address and the identifier process id the MMA may identify the specific mobile application using the port number destination address and the process ID which is obtained via the association . Specifically the MMA may process a particular network usage measurement collected from the data link layer to obtain its physical destination address then use the physical destination address to obtain the port number destination address via the association and then use the port number destination address to find the process id via the association . Based on the process id the MMA may ascertain the specific mobile application that is responsible for the particular network usage measurement.

In some embodiments the MMA may establish associations among the different identifier sets by processing the network usage measurements collected from the different network communication layers . For example the network usage measurements collected from the data link layer data link layer measurements may contain the identifier physical destination address as well as some specific network transmission information such as fast path slow path. Fast path may allow the network data frames to be quickly transmitted by the physical layer while the slow path may ensure that the network data frames be transmitted more reliably. In addition network usage measurements collected from the physical layer physical layer measurements may also contain the fast path slow path characteristics. Thus the fast path slow path information that exist in the data link layer and the physical layer may be used to create association between the identifier physical destination address and the identifier fast path slow path . In other words if a physical layer measurement is fast path and a data link layer measurement is also fast path then it might be likely that the data link layer measurement and the physical layer measurement may be related. Thus the MMA may extract the identifier fast path slow path from the physical layer measurement ascertain the identifier physical destination address via the association ascertain the identifiers port number and destination address via the association and ascertain the identifier process id via the association . The MMA may then identify the specific mobile application for the physical layer measurement using the identifier process id . 

In some embodiments to improve performance the MMA may utilize a decision tree to quickly manage and traverse the associations among the different identifiers for the network usage measurements collected from the network communication layers . Each node of the decision tree may be a value determination for a particular identifier and the links among the nodes may represent the associations among the different identifiers. During its processing of the various network usage measurements collected from the different network communication layers the MMA may dynamically construct and update the decision tree based on the identifiers and associations discovered among the network usage measurements. For example in the generated decision tree the fast path identifier may be associated with physical addresses which may include address A or B and slow path may be associated with physical addresses which may include address C or D . Likewise address A may be associated with port number destination address . And the port number destination address may be associated with process . By organizing the above associations in a tree like structure the resulted decision tree may be quickly traversed.

In some embodiments by using the exemplary decision tree the MMA may quickly determine the mobile applications for the network usage measurements collected from the physical layer . For example for each physical layer network usage measurement the MMA may extract its fast path slow path characteristic. Assuming the network usage measurement shows that the physical layer communication uses a fast path approach the MMA may then select the left branch of the decision tree . If previous determination has identified that at the time of the network usage measurements are collected only address A has been used for communication at the data link layer then MMA may select the left path of the physical addresses node . Based on the associations among nodes and the MMA may quickly determine that process may be the mobile application that is likely related to the specific network usage measurement.

In some embodiments even when unique association may not be established among the different identifiers the above approach may greatly narrow down the potential mobile application s that are related to the specific network usage measurements. Such an approach may still allow the MMA to estimate the possible quality of service or to determine the possible network issues for the mobile application s .

An AEMS may be implemented as an aggregation system for communicating with the MMA via a communication channel . The MMA may be designed to detect and monitor the mobile applications accessing a certain network. During normal operations the mobile applications may communicate with a mobile application service provider . The mobile applications and the mobile application service provider may or may not be aware of the presence of the MMA or the AEMS .

In some embodiments the MMA may be invoked by a user of the mobile device or one of the mobile applications or may be automatically initiated by the mobile OS of the mobile device during boot up. Once initiated the MMA may operate as a background process detecting and monitoring the one or more instances of the mobile application executing on the mobile device . The MMA may identify different types of the mobile applications and monitor the initialization and the execution of these mobile applications . For example the MMA may detect the installed mobile applications executing or not by their application names or Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions MIME types. The MIME information allows the MMA to identify file types such as images sounds videos or computer programs. Even without the application names or MIME types the MMA may also identify the mobile applications by inquiring the mobile OS of the mobile device for the names of the mobile applications that are executing or by evaluating the network usage patterns of the mobile applications that are executing. For example the MMA may determine that a mobile application is a video streaming application if the network usage pattern indicates that the mobile application is causing a large amount of streaming data being downloaded to the mobile device .

In some embodiments the types of mobile applications that may be monitored by the MMA and or the AEMS may include without limitation VoIP e.g. Skype audio video streaming MMS GPS navigation video conferencing video uploading email reception email attachment transmitting and or receiving music download upload online gaming or web browsing. Further the MMA may perform monitoring functions on the executing mobile applications that are recognized or supported and provide individualized and or comprehensive quality of service analysis.

In some embodiments rather than being passively monitored by the MMA the mobile application may proactively invoke the MMA to determine the network performance that the mobile application is currently experiencing. For example the mobile application may detect an exception that may affect its network performance and request the MMA to collect relevant information associated with the exception e.g. reasons for the exception and the operational environment under which the exception occurs for debugging purposes. After having collected the information the MMA may store the collected information in a database accessible by the mobile application . The MMA may subsequently forward the collected network usage measurements and or the determined QoS information to the mobile application and or the AEMS . Such an approach allows the mobile application to proactively initiate the determination of its own QoS information.

In some embodiments the MMA may collect network usage measurements from a certain network communication layer such as the application layer level so that the calculated quality of service value may correspond more directly to what is experienced by the mobile application . Some example network usage measurements that the MMA may track at the application layer level may include without limitation application launch time application type number of users using such an application the features of the application being used network status glitches and or exceptions encountered. Based on the collected network usage measurements the MMA may generate and send the quality of service information for the mobile application to the AEMS . Alternatively the MMA may collect network usage measurements from multiple network communication layers and also from multiple network communication sessions that are conducted on the mobile device .

In some embodiments the mobile application may be programmed based on programming languages such as C C or Java. The invocation of the APIs may be placed in the exception handling section of the source code for the mobile application . Some programming languages such as Java and C offer exception handling mechanisms to allow an application to continue its operations without crashing even when some unintended events such as exceptions occur. For example when trying to access an otherwise existing network port the mobile application may receive an exception when such a network port cannot be accessed. Thus in the exception handling source code the mobile application may request the MMA via the APIs to collect error information associated with the exception in order to determine the QoS information relating to such an error condition.

In some embodiments the APIs may be defined as a set of object oriented overloading methods. Overloading allows the reuse of the same method for different operations. The overloading methods may replace the methods regularly used by the mobile application but without requiring substantial source code changes. For example suppose the mobile application is a data streaming mobile application and is running out of data to decode. The mobile application may raise an exception to halt the decoding operation so that a buffering mechanism may be activated to load additional data. In this case the buffering method may be replaced with an overloading buffering method that is defined and provided by the aforementioned SDK. The overloading buffering method may perform the original buffering functions and also collect time information such as the time when the mobile application switches from its decoding operation to the buffering operation any warnings errors and or status information associated the mobile application . Thus by using the aforementioned overloading mechanism the MMA and the APIs may be efficiently deployed to the mobile device without having to significantly alter the mobile application .

In some embodiments the AEMS may be configured to load the quality of service information from multiple mobile devices and aggregate the information for statistical reporting purposes. For example the AEMS may collect the times of the various mobile applications being launched at different mobile devices as well as the network performance information during the same period. With such information the AEMS may determine whether any correlation exists between the launching of the mobile applications and the network performance. The AEMS may also be configured to aggregate the application layer level actions warnings and exceptions encountered by the mobile applications . The aggregated data may be shown in a statistical report e.g. Google Analytics report . Such a report may provide network operators and application developers with valuable information related to application usage application optimization and advertisement integration. Further the MMA and the AEMS may be configured to offer end to end quality of service monitoring reports which may contain real time mobile application data actions and exceptions. These types of monitoring reports for a mobile application may become a business product and the aggregated data may also be sold to interested network operators.

In some embodiments for each type of the mobile application being monitored the MMA and or the AEMS may implement a utility function specifically tailored to the mobile application for quick quality of service calculation and determination. The utility function may be implemented to accept the network usage measurements as input parameters and generate a quality of service value as an output. For example the utility function may accept input parameters such as bandwidth packet loss delay jitter and bit error rate the output of the utility function may be the quality of service value corresponding to how well the mobile application performs under the network constraints.

Process may begin at block collect network usage measurements associated with multiple network communication sessions from one or more network communication layers. Block may be followed by block extract a subset of measurements from the network usage measurements using one or more identifiers that can identify a mobile application. Block may be followed by block determine application specific usage data associated with the mobile application using the subset of measurements. Block may be followed by block select a utility function for the mobile application. Block may be following by block determine a quality of service for the mobile application by inputting the application specific usage data to the utility function. And the block may be followed by block transmit the determined quality of service from the mobile device to a remote aggregation system. 

At block a MMA executing on a mobile device may collect various network usage measurements associated with one or more network communication layers. The mobile device may have one or more mobile applications participating in multiple network communication sessions. From each of the network communication layers the MMA may collect different types of the network usage measurements associated with the network communication sessions. For example from a network layer e.g. the network layer of the MMA may collect packet loss and packet retransmission information. From a physical layer e.g. the physical layer of the MMA may collect bit error rate error burst signal to noise ratio noise margin and or error correction code data e.g. Reed Solomon errors corrected errors not corrected and erasures . The collected network usage measurements may be for all the network communication sessions that the one or more mobile applications running on the mobile device participate in.

At block after having collected the network usage measurements for a period of time the MMA may extract a subset of measurements from the network usage measurements collected at block . The subset of measurements may be associated with a specific mobile application running on the mobile device. The MMA may retrieve one or more identifiers from the network usage measurements and use the one or more identifiers to ascertain the specific mobile application that took part in the network communication sessions. In some embodiments a single identifier may be sufficient in identifying the mobile application. For example the network usage measurements collected from some network communication layers may contain a mobile application s process name or process id pid . By using the unique process name or process id as an identifier the MMA may extract the subset of measurements from the network usage measurements. Alternatively multiple identifiers obtained either from the network usage measurements or via associations among the identifiers may be needed to pinpoint the mobile application. In some embodiments the MMA may traverse a decision tree that maintains associations between the different identifiers in order to ascertain the one or more identifiers that can identify the mobile application.

At block the MMA may determine the application specific usage data such as without limitation bandwidth distribution peak bandwidth idle bandwidth and average bandwidth based on the subset of measurements extracted at block . Alternatively the MMA may treat the subset of measurements for the mobile application as a form of the application specific usage data. Thus the application specific usage data may include network performance indicators for a specific network application during a specific period of time.

At block the MMA may select a utility function corresponding to the mobile application. As mentioned above the utility function may accept a set of input parameters and output a quality of service result for the particular mobile application. Since different mobile applications may have different network usage characteristics a utility function may be specifically tailored to a specific mobile application. For example for buffering video delay may not be an important performance measurement but packet loss may be more significant since it may cause glitches in the frames that are being displayed. In this case a utility function which gives packet loss higher weight than delay may be selected for the video buffering application. On the other hand for a voice mobile application delay may have a larger impact on the quality of service than packet loss does. Thus a utility function that emphasizes more on packet loss may be selected for the voice mobile application.

At block the MMA may determine the quality of service for the particular mobile application based on the application specific usage data. In some embodiments the MMA may input the application specific usage data obtained at block into the utility function selected at block to generate the quality of service value for the mobile application. For example a utility function may take input parameters such as bw p peak bandwidth bw a average bandwidth pl packet loss ber bit error rate eb error bursts snr signal to noise ratio and nm noise margin and generate a corresponding quality of service value that can be evaluated or compared to determine how the mobile application performed during a period of time. At block the MMA may transmit the determined quality of service value from the mobile device to an aggregation system such as an AEMS. In some embodiments the MMA may also periodically transmit quality of service values from different mobile applications executing on the mobile device to the AEMS. The quality of service for a particular mobile application on a specific mobile device may then be aggregated by the AEMS into statistic reports for further evaluation.

One skilled in the art will appreciate that for this and other processes and methods disclosed herein the functions performed in the processes and methods may be implemented in differing order. Furthermore the outlined steps and operations are only provided as examples and some of the steps and operations may be optional combined into fewer steps and operations or expanded into additional steps and operations without detracting from the essence of the disclosed embodiments. Moreover one or more of the outlined steps and operations may be performed in parallel.

Process may begin at block detect a network communication exception occurring at a mobile device. Block may be followed by block invoke a mobile monitoring application MMA via an application programming interface API supported by the MMA. Block may be followed by block collect network usage measurements for the mobile application. Block may be followed by block determine a quality of service of the mobile application based on the collected network usage measurements. Block may be following by block transmit the determined quality of service from the mobile device to an aggregation system. 

At block a mobile application executing on a mobile device may detect an occurrence of a network communication exception during its operations. The network communication exception may be caused by the lacking of certain network resources such as bandwidth or raised by the mobile operating system of the mobile device. The exception may also be a part of the programming logic of the mobile application. For example the mobile application may raise the exception when a certain port is being used by other applications. Once the exception is raised and detected the programming logic for the mobile application may be configured to abandon its normal operations and instead move into exception handling.

At block the mobile application may invoke a MMA via an API during its exception handling process in response to the exception raised and or detected at block . The API may be supported by the MMA which may be configured to monitor and collect network usage measurements for multiple mobile applications executing on the mobile device. In some embodiments the API may be explicitly invoked in the mobile application source code during its normal or exceptional operations. Alternatively the API may be an overloading method to replace a standard method that is defined and provided by a SDK. Thus when the standard method is invoked during run time the mobile operating system may substitute the standard method with the overloading API method instead. As a result the mobile application may activate the programming logics of the MMA by invoking a standard method without knowing that the standard method is overloaded by the API.

In some embodiments the MMA may be concurrently executing along with the mobile application on the mobile device and is configured to monitor different mobile applications at the same time. That is the MMA may be idle or performing QoS monitoring of the other mobile applications on the mobile device when this particular mobile application invokes the MMA services via the API. Alternatively the MMA may be activated via the API invocation. For example the MMA may not be executing on the mobile device initially. When the mobile application invokes the API the API may startup the MMA in order to perform the QoS functions accordingly. In some embodiments the MMA and the mobile application are implemented using the same SDK. Thus the API may be defined using the SDK s programming language. The mobile application s source code may then easily call the API to invoke the MMA using the SDK s programming language.

At block once invoked by the mobile application the MMA may collect the network usage measurements for the mobile application. When the mobile application invokes the MMA during exception handling the MMA may further collect the error information related to the exception from the perspective of the mobile application. In some embodiments the MMA may collect the measurements of the mobile application s network communications from the application layer level. Specifically the MMA may access to the mobile application s internal operational environment. For example the MMA may read the mobile application s run time memory space CPU registers and network stacks. Alternatively the MMA may collect network usage measurements from multiple network communication layers such as network layer data link layer and or physical layer as described above. In this case the network usage measurements collected by the MMA may be associated mainly with the mobile application that invoked the MMA rather than all the mobile applications that are executing on the mobile device. Thus the specific mobile application may actively participate in the determination of its own QoS by controlling when the MMA should start collecting network usage measurements what types of measurements the MMA should collect and how to calculate the QoS value.

At block the MMA may determine a quality of service value for the mobile application based on the collected network usage measurements. In some embodiments the MMA may select a utility function for the mobile application and passes the collected network usage measurements as input parameters to the utility function. The utility function may then generate a quality of service indicator. Alternatively the MMA may communicate with an aggregation system forward the network usage measurements to the aggregation system and rely on the aggregation system to generate such a quality of service value. At block the MMA may transmit the determined quality of service value from the mobile device to the aggregation system similar to block of .

In some implementations signal bearing medium may encompass a non transitory computer readable medium such as but not limited to a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape memory etc. In some implementations signal bearing medium may encompass a recordable medium such as but not limited to memory read write RNV CDs R W DVDs etc. In some implementations signal bearing medium may encompass a communications medium such as but not limited to a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link etc. . Thus for example referring to the MMA or the AEMS of computer program product may be wirelessly conveyed to the MMA or the AEMS by signal bearing medium where signal bearing medium is conveyed by a wireless communications medium e.g. a wireless communications medium conforming with the IEEE 802.11 standard . Computer program product may be recorded on non transitory computer readable medium or another similar recordable medium .

Depending on the desired configuration processor may be of any type including but not limited to a microprocessor P a microcontroller C a digital signal processor DSP or any combination thereof. Processor can include one or more levels of caching such as a level one cache and a level two cache a processor core and registers . The processor core can include an arithmetic logic unit ALU a floating point unit FPU a digital signal processing core DSP Core or any combination thereof. A memory controller can also be used with the processor or in some implementations the memory controller can be an internal part of the processor .

Depending on the desired configuration the system memory may be of any type including but not limited to volatile memory such as RAM non volatile memory such as ROM flash memory or any combination thereof. System memory may include an operating system one or more applications and program data . Application may include a mobile monitoring application that is arranged to perform the functions and or operations as described herein including at least the functional blocks and or operations described with respect to process of and process of . Program Data may include network usage measurements for use by the mobile monitoring application . In some example embodiments application may be arranged to operate with program data on an operating system such that implementations of mobile application quality of service determination may be provided as described herein. This described basic configuration is illustrated in by those components within dashed line .

Computing device may have additional features or functionality and additional interfaces to facilitate communications between the basic configuration and any required devices and interfaces. For example a bus interface controller may be used to facilitate communications between the basic configuration and one or more data storage devices via a storage interface bus . The data storage devices may be removable storage devices non removable storage devices or a combination thereof. Examples of removable storage and non removable storage devices include magnetic disk devices such as flexible disk drives and hard disk drives HDD optical disk drives such as compact disk CD drives or digital versatile disk DVD drives solid state drives SSD and tape drives to name a few. Example computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data.

System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which may be used to store the desired information and which may be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of computing device .

Computing device may also include an interface bus for facilitating communication from various interface devices e.g. output interfaces peripheral interfaces and communication interfaces to the basic configuration via the bus interface controller . Example output interfaces may include a graphics processing unit and an audio processing unit which may be configured to communicate to various external devices such as a display or speakers via one or more A V ports . Example peripheral interfaces may include a serial interface controller or a parallel interface controller which may be configured to communicate with external devices such as input devices e.g. keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device or other peripheral devices e.g. printer scanner via one or more I O ports . An example communication interface includes a network controller which may be arranged to facilitate communications with one or more other computing devices over a network communication link via one or more communication ports .

The network communication link may be one example of a communication media. Communication media may typically be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other transport mechanism and may include any information delivery media. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared IR and other wireless media. The term computer readable media as used herein may include both storage media and communication media.

Computing device may be implemented as a portion of a small form factor portable or mobile electronic device such as a cell phone a personal data assistant PDA a personal media player device a wireless web watch device a personal headset device an application specific device or a hybrid device that includes any of the above functions. Computing device may also be implemented as a personal computer including both laptop computer and non laptop computer configurations. In addition computing device may be implemented as part of a wireless base station or other wireless system or device.

There is little distinction left between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems the use of hardware or software is generally but not always in that in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs. There are various vehicles by which processes and or systems and or other technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software and or firmware and that the preferred vehicle will vary with the context in which the processes and or systems and or other technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation or yet again alternatively the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. In some embodiments several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure. In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies regardless of the particular type of signal bearing medium used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing medium include but are not limited to the following a recordable type medium such as a floppy disk a hard disk drive a Compact Disc CD a Digital Video Disk DVD a digital tape a computer memory and a transmission type medium such as a digital and or an analog communication medium e.g. a fiber optic cable a waveguide a wired communications link a wireless communication link .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and or processes in the fashion set forth herein and thereafter use engineering practices to integrate such described devices and or processes into data processing systems. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be integrated into a data processing system via a reasonable amount of experimentation. Those having skill in the art will recognize that a typical data processing system generally includes one or more of a system unit housing a video display device a memory such as volatile and non volatile memory processors such as microprocessors and digital signal processors computational entities such as operating systems drivers graphical user interfaces and applications programs one or more interaction devices such as a touch pad or screen and or control systems including feedback loops and control motors e.g. feedback for sensing position and or velocity control motors for moving and or adjusting components and or quantities . A typical data processing system may be implemented utilizing any suitable commercially available components such as those typically found in data computing communication and or network computing communication systems.

The herein described subject matter sometimes illustrates different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

With respect to the use of substantially any plural and or singular terms herein those having skill in the art can translate from the plural to the singular and or from the singular to the plural as is appropriate to the context and or application. The various singular plural permutations may be expressly set forth herein for sake of clarity.

It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that virtually any disjunctive word and or phrase presenting two or more alternative terms whether in the description claims or drawings should be understood to contemplate the possibilities of including one of the terms either of the terms or both terms. For example the phrase A or B will be understood to include the possibilities of A or B or A and B. 

From the foregoing it will be appreciated that various embodiments of the present disclosure have been described herein for purposes of illustration and that various modifications may be made without departing from the scope and spirit of the present disclosure. Accordingly the various embodiments disclosed herein are not intended to be limiting with the true scope and spirit being indicated by the following claims.

