---

title: Wireless data communications network system for tracking container
abstract: A wireless data communications network system for establishing communication between a server and a plurality of containers that are loaded onto a cargo vessel. The system includes a data communications device configured to establish and manage a pre-configured wireless data communications network and to communicate with the server through a local area network, and a plurality of electronic tracking devices each having a wireless transceiver and routing capabilities and configured to be joined to a container and to connect to the wireless data communications network upon being activated. The data communications device is configured to intermittently perform a network scan to locate each tracking device connected to the network and reconfigure the network topology to include each connected tracking devices such that the data communications device maintains mutual communication with each connected tracking device using the routing capabilities of the tracking devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08078139&OS=08078139&RS=08078139
owner: TeraHop Networks, Inc.
number: 08078139
owner_city: Alpharetta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100514
---
The present application is a continuation of and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 473 264 filed May 27 2009 pending which 264 application published as U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2009 0290512 A1 and which 264 application is a continuation application of and claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 120 to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 140 253 filed Jun. 16 2008 pending which 253 Application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 120 to and is a continuation in part of 

G. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 422 329 filed Jun. 5 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 529 547 which is a nonprovisional of both of U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 691 884 filed Jun. 17 2005 expired and U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 687 415 filed Jun. 3 2005 expired 

H. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 423 127 filed Jun. 8 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 563 991 which is a nonprovisional of U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 688 737 filed Jun. 8 2005 expired 

I. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 424 845 filed Jun. 16 2006 pending which is a nonprovisional of U.S. Patent Application Ser. No. 60 595 233 filed Jun. 16 2005 expired 

Each of the above referenced U.S. patent applications U.S. patent application publications U.S. patents international applications and international application publications is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

Additionally the present application hereby incorporates herein by reference each of the following U.S. patent application publications and U.S. patents 20080303897 titled VISUALLY CAPTURING AND MONITORING CONTENTS AND EVENTS OF CARGO CONTAINER 20080112378 titled COMMUNICATIONS AND SYSTEMS UTILIZING COMMON DESIGNATION NETWORKING 20080112377 titled RADIO FREQUENCY IDENTIFICATION BASED NETWORKS 20080111692 titled RADIO FREQUENCY IDENTIFICATION BASED SENSOR 20070291724 TITLED METHOD FOR SUPPLYING CONTAINER SECURITY 20070291690 titled SYSTEM FOR SUPPLYING CONTAINER SECURITY 20070273503 titled KEYHOLE COMMUNICATION DEVICE FOR TRACKING AND MONITORING SHIPPING CONTAINER AND CONTENTS THEREOF 20070268134 titled KEYHOLE COMMUNICATION DEVICE FOR TRACKING AND MONITORING SHIPPING CONTAINER AND CONTENTS THEREOF 20070268126 titled KEYHOLE COMMUNICATION DEVICE FOR TRACKING AND MONITORING SHIPPING CONTAINER AND CONTENTS THEREOF 20070159999 titled INTELLIGENT NODE COMMUNICATION USING NETWORK FORMATION MESSAGES IN A MOBILE AD HOC NETWORK 20070155327 titled DETERMINING PRESENCE OF RADIO FREQUENCY COMMUNICATION DEVICE 20070099629 titled USING GPS AND RANGING TO DETERMINE RELATIVE ELEVATION OF AN ASSET 20070099628 titled DETERMINING RELATIVE ELEVATION USING GPS AND RANGING 20070069885 EVENT DRIVEN MOBILE HAZMAT MONITORING 20070043807 titled All WEATHER HOUSING ASSEMBLY FOR ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS 20070041333 titled SENSOR NETWORKS FOR MONITORING PIPELINES AND POWER LINES 20070004431 titled FORMING AD HOC RSI NETWORKS AMONG TRANSCEIVERS SHARING COMMON DESIGNATION 20070004331 titled TACTICAL GPS DENIAL AND DENIAL DETECTION SYSTEM 20070004330 titled SELECTIVE GPS DENIAL SYSTEM 20070002808 titled TRANSMITTING SENSOR ACQUIRED DATA USING STEP POWER FILTERING 20070002793 titled MAINTAINING INFORMATION FACILITATING DETERMINISTIC NETWORK ROUTING 20070002792 titled COMMUNICATING VIA NONDETERMINISTIC AND DETERMINISTIC NETWORK ROUTING 20070001898 titled OPERATING GPS RECEIVERS IN GPS ADVERSE ENVIRONMENT 20060289204 titled All WEATHER HOUSING ASSEMBLY FOR ELECTRONIC COMPONENTS 20060287822 titled GPS DENIAL DEVICE DETECTION AND LOCATION SYSTEM 20060287008 titled REMOTE SENSOR INTERFACE RSI HAVING POWER CONSERVATIVE TRANSCEIVER FOR TRANSMITTING AND RECEIVING WAKEUP SIGNALS 20060282217 titled NETWORK AIDED TERRESTRIAL TRIANGULATION USING STARS NATTS 20060276963 titled NETWORK AIDED TERRESTRIAL TRIANGULATION USING STARS NATTS 20060276161 titled REMOTE SENSOR INTERFACE RSI STEPPED WAKE UP SEQUENCE 20060274698 titled USING WAKE UP RECEIVERS FOR SOFT HAND OFF IN WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS 20060237490 titled KEYHOLE COMMUNICATION DEVICE FOR TRACKING AND MONITORING SHIPPING CONTAINER AND CONTENTS THEREOF 20060023679 titled PROPAGATING AD HOC WIRELESS NETWORKS BASED ON COMMON DESIGNATION AND ROUTINE 20060023678 titled FORMING COMMUNICATION CLUSTER OF WIRELESS AD HOC NETWORK BASED ON COMMON DESIGNATION 20060018274 titled COMMUNICATIONS WITHIN POPULATION OF WIRELESS TRANSCEIVERS BASED ON COMMON DESIGNATION 20040082296 titled NETWORK FORMATION IN ASSET TRACKING SYSTEM BASED ON ASSET CLASS U.S. Pat. No. 7 221 668 titled COMMUNICATIONS WITHIN POPULATION OF WIRELESS TRANSCEIVERS BASED ON COMMON DESIGNATION U.S. Pat. No. 7 209 771 titled BATTERY POWERED WIRELESS TRANSCEIVER HAVING LPRF COMPONENT AND SECOND WAKE UP RECEIVER U.S. Pat. No. 7 209 468 titled FORMING COMMUNICATION CLUSTER OF WIRELESS AD HOC NETWORK BASED ON COMMON DESIGNATION U.S. Pat. No. 7 200 132 titled FORMING AD HOC RSI NETWORKS AMONG TRANSCEIVERS SHARING COMMON DESIGNATION U.S. Pat. No. 7 155 264 titled SYSTEMS AND METHODS HAVING LPRF DEVICE WAKE UP USING WIRELESS TAG U.S. Pat. No. 7 133 704 titled MANUFACTURE OF LPRF DEVICE WAKE UP USING WIRELESS TAG U.S. Pat. No. 6 934 540 titled NETWORK FORMATION IN ASSET TRACKING SYSTEM BASED ON ASSET CLASS U.S. Pat. No. 6 745 027 titled CLASS SWITCHED NETWORKS FOR TRACKING ARTICLES 20080136624 titled KEYHOLE COMMUNICATION DEVICE FOR TRACKING AND MONITORING SHIPPING CONTAINER AND CONTENTS THEREOF 20080130536 titled METHOD IN A RADIO FREQUENCY ADDRESSABLE SENSOR FOR COMMUNICATING SENSOR DATA TO A WIRELESS SENSOR READER 20080129458 titled RADIO FREQUENCY IDENTIFICATION BASED SENSOR U.S. Pat. No. 7 378 959 titled KEYHOLE COMMUNICATION DEVICE FOR TRACKING AND MONITORING SHIPPING CONTAINER AND CONTENTS THEREOF U.S. Pat. No. 7 378 958 titled KEYHOLE COMMUNICATION DEVICE FOR TRACKING AND MONITORING SHIPPING CONTAINER AND CONTENTS THEREOF and U.S. Pat. No. 7 378 957 titled KEYHOLE COMMUNICATION DEVICE FOR TRACKING AND MONITORING SHIPPING CONTAINER AND CONTENTS THEREOF. Additionally the present application expressly incorporates herein by reference U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 753 775 6 665 585 and 5 458 042 as well as U.S. Patent Appl. Publication Nos. 2004 0183673 and 2004 0021572.

All of the material in this patent document is subject to copyright protection under the copyright laws of the United States and other countries. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in official governmental records but otherwise all other copyright rights whatsoever are reserved.

The present invention generally relates to tracking and or monitoring assets that are stored and or transported in shipping containers and in particular to facilitating communications for tracking and or monitoring assets that are stored and or transported in shipping containers at a level of tracking and or monitoring that is at or below that of the shipping container.

The ISO standard maritime and intermodal containers are ubiquitous and the primary means of shipping goods internationally to and from the United States. The container technology is a mature and well established practice with over 16 million containers worldwide. This in place infrastructure represents billions of dollars in capital for shippers and terminal operators most of which is designed to handle and transport the standardized ISO container.

In the last decade and with increased emphasis following the passage of the Maritime Transportation Security Act the Department of Homeland Security has devoted considerable resources toward securing maritime cargo. Indeed container tracking and sensor monitoring have taken on added importance with the realization that a container shipped into the US could cause severe damage if a weapon of mass destruction WMD were to be smuggled therein. Programs that have been initiated include Operation Safe Commerce the Container Security Initiative C TPAT and the Smart Container initiative. The development continues with programs such as the Advanced Container Security Device and the Automated Commercial Environment. Unfortunately all of these programs suffer from a lack of granularity in the level of tracking and monitoring provided. More specifically none of the contemplated security and information systems are being designed to track or monitor a unit any smaller than today s ISO container. It is believed that a better system would include tracking and or monitoring not only of such shipping containers as a whole but the individual assets within such shipping containers as well.

Accordingly in furtherance of the protection and security of international and national commerce and in the interests of U.S. national security one or more preferred embodiments of the present invention is intended to facilitate communications for tracking and or monitoring of assets that are stored and or transported within the ISO standard maritime and intermodal container i.e. to provide visibility at a granularity below that of merely tracking or monitoring the shipping container itself. In this respect one or more preferred embodiments of the present invention facilitates the tracking and or the monitoring of not only the shipping container but the contents within the container as well.

In an aspect of the invention a shipping container is equipped to facilitate wireless communications between one or more wireless communication devices within the shipping container and a network that is external to the shipping container. The shipping container includes a wall structure for receiving and containing items to be shipped and a communication device adapted for wireless communications with the external network that includes a first housing component and a second housing component. The first housing component is disposed substantially exterior to the wall structure of the shipping container and the second housing component is disposed substantially interior to the wall structure of the shipping container. Furthermore the first and second housing components together form an integrated housing structure that extends through a small opening in the wall structure of the shipping container. Because the communication device physically extends through the small opening of the shipping container it is sometimes referred to hereinbelow as a keyhole communication device.

Additionally in accordance with this aspect of the invention the keyhole communication device includes a first antenna disposed within the first housing component and first electronic circuitry disposed within the second housing and connected to the first antenna. The first electronic circuitry is adapted to control signal reception and transmission via the first antenna for communications with the external network and for communications with the wireless communication devices within the shipping container. Furthermore the small opening in the wall structure of the shipping container preferably includes a diameter that is between about one quarter to one full wavelength of the signals that are transmitted and received by the first antenna under the control of the first circuitry.

In a feature of this aspect the first antenna comprises an antenna that is adapted for communications within the 2.4 GHz band such as for example an antenna adapted for Bluetooth or WiFi communications.

In another feature the communication device further includes a GPS receiver disposed within the second housing component and a patch antenna for the GPS receiver disposed within the first housing component.

In other features of this aspect the first electronic circuitry includes a tag turn on circuit TTOC for waking up a standards based radio of the keyhole communication device and the first electronic circuitry includes tag turn on TTO electronics for causing a tag turn on circuit TTOC of another communication device to wake up a standards based radio of the other communication device.

In another feature the first electronic circuitry is adapted for communication with one or more wireless tags WTs the WTs being associated with assets disposed within the interior of the shipping container.

In still yet another feature the first electronic circuitry is configured to form in conjunction with other communication devices a class based network wherein at least some of the other communication devices are disposed exterior to the shipping container.

In another feature the first electronic circuitry is configured to form in conjunction with other communication devices a class based network wherein at least some of the other communication devices being disposed within the interior of the shipping container.

In another feature the shipping container further includes at least one sensor disposed about the shipping container and the first electronic circuitry is communicatively interfaced with the at least one sensor for acquiring data there from. The interface may be via wireless communication or a direct wired connection.

In still yet another feature the wall structure of the shipping container includes a static wall structure and at least one access door and the keyhole communication device is disposed on the static wall structure and not on the at least one access door.

In another feature of this aspect a second antenna is disposed within the second housing component and second electronic circuitry is connected to the second antenna that is adapted to control signal reception and transmission via the second antenna for additional communications with an external network and or wireless communication devices within the area of the shipping container. With regard to this feature the first electronic circuitry and the second electronic circuitry are disposed substantially within the second housing component. In a contemplated alternative the first electronic circuitry and the second electronic circuitry are disposed substantially within the first housing component. In yet another contemplated alternative the first electronic circuitry is disposed substantially within the first housing component and the second electronic circuitry is disposed substantially within the second housing component. With additional regard to this feature the second antenna may comprise an antenna that is adapted for example for satellite communications or cellular communications. Alternatively the first antenna comprises an antenna that is adapted for example for WiFi communications WiMAX communications or UWB Ultra Wide Band communications.

In another aspect of the invention a shipping container equipped for external communications via a wireless network includes a wall structure for receiving and containing items to be shipped and a keyhole communication device adapted for wireless external communication that includes a first housing component and a second housing component. The first housing component contains a first antenna and a second antenna therein and the second housing component contains an electronics assembly for controlling receptions and transmissions of the first antenna and the second antenna. Additionally the first housing component is mounted on an exterior portion of the wall structure and is disposed substantially exterior to the shipping container and the second housing component is mounted on an interior portion of the wall structure proximate the first housing component and is disposed substantially interior to the shipping container. Furthermore the first antenna is adapted for wireless communication external to the shipping container and the second antenna is adapted for wireless communication internal to the shipping container.

In still yet another aspect of the invention a shipping container equipped to facilitate internal and external wireless communications includes a wall structure for receiving and containing items to be shipped and a wireless keyhole communication device that includes a first housing component and a second housing component. The first housing component is disposed substantially exterior to the walls of the shipping container and the second housing component is disposed substantially interior to the walls of the shipping container. The first and second housing components together form an integrated housing structure that extends through an opening in the wall structure of the shipping container. Furthermore the keyhole communication device includes an antenna disposed within the first housing component and electronic circuitry connected to the antenna that is adapted to facilitate signal transmission via the antenna. Moreover the opening in the wall of the shipping container includes a diameter of between one quarter and one full wavelength inclusive of the electromagnetic waves used to wirelessly communicate via the antenna whereby internal and external wireless communications via the antenna are thereby facilitated.

In still yet another aspect of the invention a network includes a plurality of wireless keyhole communication devices of shipping containers of one or more of the aforementioned aspects. Additionally the network may comprise a common designation network such as a class based network.

In yet another aspect of the invention a method of facilitating wireless communications between one or more wireless communication devices within a shipping container and a network that is external to the shipping container includes the steps of disposing a wireless keyhole communication device on a shipping container such that a first housing component of the keyhole communication device is disposed on the exterior of the shipping container and a second housing component of the keyhole communication device is disposed within the interior of the shipping container wherein the first and second housing components together form an integrated housing structure that extends through an opening of the shipping container wherein the keyhole communication device is adapted for wireless communications with one or more wireless communication devices disposed within the interior of the shipping container and wherein the keyhole communication device is adapted for wireless communications with a network that is external to the shipping container wirelessly communicating between the keyhole communication device disposed on the shipping container and the one or more wireless communication devices disposed within the interior of the shipping container and wirelessly communicating between the keyhole communication device disposed on the shipping container and the network that is external to the shipping container.

In features of this aspect the keyhole communication device disposed on the shipping container is disposed on a wall of the shipping container and the integrated housing structure extends through an opening in the wall of the shipping container.

In another feature of this aspect the method further includes the step of disposing a sealing ring on the wall of the shipping container for sealing of the opening in the wall of the shipping container through which the integrated housing structure extends.

In yet another a feature of this aspect the opening in the wall of the shipping container includes a diameter of between one quarter and one full wavelength inclusive of the electromagnetic waves used to wirelessly communicate between the keyhole communication device disposed on the shipping container and the one or more wireless communication devices disposed within the interior of the shipping container.

In a feature of this aspect the frequency of the wirelessly communications between the keyhole communication device disposed on the shipping container and the one or more wireless communication devices disposed within the interior of the shipping container is within the 2.4 GHz band.

In other alternative features of this aspect the wall comprises a side wall of the shipping container a top wall of the shipping container a bottom wall of the shipping container and a wall of an access door of the shipping container. Preferably the wall comprises a side wall which configuration is believed to afford greater protection for the housing of the keyhole communication device than the other contemplated locations on the shipping container.

In still yet another aspect of the invention a shipping container that facilitates wireless communications between one or more wireless communication devices within an interior thereof and a network that is external thereto includes a wireless keyhole communication device that is disposed on the shipping container such that a first housing component of the keyhole communication device is disposed on the exterior of the shipping container and a second housing component of the keyhole communication device is disposed within the interior of the shipping container.

In accordance with this aspect the first and second housing components together form an integrated housing structure that extends through an opening of the shipping container the keyhole communication device is adapted for wireless communications with one or more wireless communication devices disposed within the interior of the shipping container and the keyhole communication device is adapted for wireless communications with a network that is external to the shipping container.

In a feature of this aspect the first housing component of the keyhole communication device disposed on the shipping container includes an antenna for communications with the network that is external to the shipping container. The antenna may comprises an antenna adapted for remote communications including for example satellite WiMAX UWB or cellular communications.

In another feature of this aspect the first housing component of the keyhole communication device disposed on the shipping container includes a GPS receiver and the first housing component of the keyhole communication device disposed on the shipping container includes a patch antenna disposed in electronic communication with the GPS receiver.

In a feature of this aspect the first housing component of the keyhole communication device disposed on the shipping container includes an antenna for communications with the one or more wireless communication devices disposed within the interior of the shipping container.

In another feature of this aspect at least one of the wireless communication devices disposed within the interior of the shipping container comprises a remote sensor interface RSI . With regard to this feature the RSI may be disposed in electronic communication with at least one sensor and is adapted to communicatively interface with the at least one sensor via wireless communication or via a direct wired connection. The sensor may comprises for example a temperature sensor a motion sensor a humidity sensor a radiation sensor a video camera a still camera an electronic seal sensor and or a microphone.

In another feature of this aspect at least one of the wireless communication devices disposed within the interior of the shipping container comprises a wireless tag reader WT reader . With regard to this feature assets disposed within the interior of the shipping container may include radiofrequency identification tags REID tags or WTs associated therewith and a remote sensor interface RSI may comprise a WT reader.

In a feature of this aspect the keyhole communication device disposed on the shipping container comprises a WT reader and the one or more wireless communication devices disposed within the interior of the shipping container comprise one or more WTs associated with assets within the shipping container.

In a feature of this aspect the keyhole communication device disposed on the shipping container is disposed itself in electronic communication with at least one sensor.

In a feature of this aspect the network exterior to the shipping container comprises wireless communication devices each of which is disposed on a respective shipping container.

In other features of this aspect the network exterior to the shipping container comprises a wide area network WAN that includes Internet communications cellular communications and or satellite communications.

In still yet another feature of this aspect the first and second housing components are separately formed but are adapted to be secured together. In this regard the first and second housing components may include correspondingly threaded fittings adapted to be screwed together. Furthermore the electronics assembly may include first electrical contacts disposed in the first housing component and second electrical contacts disposed in the second housing component wherein the first and second electrical contacts are electrically connected to one another when the first housing component is secured to the second housing component.

In still yet another feature of this aspect the first and second housing components are integrally formed.

In yet another feature of this aspect the first and second housing components are formed from a material that does not significantly impede transmission of RF energy.

In still yet another feature of this aspect the first and second housing components have external configurations adapted to conform to respective surface contours of the shipping container.

In another feature of this aspect the shipping container comprises an ISO intermodal shipping container.

Another aspect of the invention relates to a communication device for attaching to a shipping container. The communication device includes an electronics assembly including an antenna for wireless communication a first housing component containing the antenna that is adapted to be mounted on an exterior wall of a shipping container such that the first housing component is disposed substantially exterior to the shipping container and substantially surrounds an opening in the wall of the shipping container and a second housing component adapted to be mounted on an interior wall of the shipping container proximate the first housing component such that the second housing is disposed substantially interior to the shipping container and substantially surrounds the opening in the wall of the shipping container.

In a feature of this aspect the first housing component defines a first hollow interior wherein the second housing component defines a second hollow interior and wherein the first hollow interior is contiguous with the second hollow interior via the opening in the wall of the shipping container.

In another aspect of the invention a communication device for attaching to a shipping container includes an electronics assembly including first and second antennas and circuitry connecting the first and second antennas together for wireless communication a first housing component containing the first and second antennas that is adapted to be mounted on an exterior wall of a shipping container such that the first housing component is disposed substantially exterior to the shipping container and a second housing component containing the electronic circuitry for controlling transmissions and receptions by the first and the second antennas that is adapted to be mounted on an interior wall of the shipping container proximate the first housing component such that the second housing is disposed substantially interior to the shipping container.

In a feature of this aspect the first antenna is adapted for wireless communication external to the shipping container and the second antenna is adapted for wireless communication internal to the shipping container.

In still yet another aspect of the invention a method of attaching a communication device to a shipping container includes the steps of providing a communication device adapted for wireless external communication that includes a first housing component and a second housing component the first housing containing an antenna positioning the first housing component exterior to the shipping container positioning the second housing component interior to the shipping container and securing the first housing component and the second housing component together through the shipping container.

In a feature of this aspect the step of positioning the first housing component includes positioning the first housing component such that an external configuration thereof conforms to an external surface configuration of the wall of the shipping container and the step of positioning the second housing component includes positioning the second housing component such that an external configuration thereof conforms to an internal surface configuration of the wall of the shipping container such that the first and second housing components are protected within recesses of the shipping container.

In another feature of this aspect the method further includes the preliminary step of forming an opening in the wall of the shipping container through which the first and second housing components are secured together. With regard to this feature the step of forming the opening in the wall of the shipping container may include forming the opening with a diameter of between one quarter and one full wavelength inclusive of radiofrequency waves used to communicate within a 2.4 GHz band.

In an aspect of the invention a method of attaching a communication device to a shipping container includes steps of providing a communication device adapted for wireless external communication that includes a first housing component and a second housing component the first housing containing an antenna mounting the first housing component on an exterior wall of a shipping container such that the first housing component is disposed substantially exterior to the shipping container and substantially surrounds an opening in the wall of the container and mounting the second housing component on an interior wall of the shipping container proximate the first housing component such that the second housing component is disposed substantially interior to the shipping container and substantially surrounds the opening in the wall of the shipping container.

In a feature of this aspect the step of mounting the first housing component includes mounting the first housing component such that the first housing component defines a first hollow interior wherein the step of mounting the second housing component includes mounting the second housing component such that the second housing component defines a second hollow interior and such that the first hollow interior is contiguous with the second hollow interior via the opening in the wall of the shipping container.

Another aspect of the invention includes a method of attaching a communication device to a shipping container. The method includes the steps of providing a communication device adapted for wireless external communication that includes a first housing component and a second housing component the first housing containing a first antenna and a second antenna mounting the first housing component on an exterior wall of the shipping container such that the first housing component is disposed substantially exterior to the shipping container and mounting the second housing component on an interior wall of the shipping container proximate the first housing component such that the second housing component is disposed substantially interior to the shipping container. The second housing component includes circuitry for controlling transmissions and receptions of the first antenna and the second antenna.

In a feature of this aspect the method further includes the steps of communicating wirelessly via the first antenna with communication devices external to the shipping container and communicating wirelessly via the second antenna with communication devices internal to the shipping container.

Another aspect of the invention includes a method for tracking and or monitoring contents of an ISO intermodal shipping container. The method includes the steps of wirelessly communicating by a keyhole communication device attached to the shipping container via a first antenna that is disposed within a first housing component of the communication device with one or more communication devices within the interior of the shipping container and wirelessly communicating by the keyhole communication device attached to the shipping container with a network external to the shipping container the wireless communications including information relating to the tracking and or the monitoring of the contents of the shipping container. In accordance with this aspect the first and second housing components are secured together through a wall of the shipping container with the first housing component residing substantially within the interior of the shipping container and with the second housing component residing substantially exterior to the shipping container. The wireless communications are controlled by circuitry within the second housing component of the keyhole communication device.

In a feature of this aspect the keyhole communications device communicates to the external network via a second antenna that is disposed within the first housing component of the keyhole communication device.

In a feature of this aspect each communication device is associated with one or more respective contents of the shipping container and the information relates respectively to the respective tracking and or the monitoring of the contents of the shipping container.

In a feature of this aspect the method also includes the step of sending a message to the keyhole communication device attached to the shipping container that results in the keyhole communication device sending a message to the communication devices within the interior of the shipping container. The message that is sent to the communication devices within the interior of the shipping container further may result in at least one of the communication devices sending a message to the keyhole communication device and further the sending in response thereto of a message from the keyhole communication device to the external network.

In addition to the aforementioned aspects and features of the invention it should be noted that the invention further includes the various possible combinations of such aspects and features including the combinations of such aspects and features with those aspects and features of the incorporated references from which priority is claimed.

As a preliminary matter it will readily be understood by one having ordinary skill in the relevant art Ordinary Artisan that the present invention has broad utility and application. Furthermore any embodiment discussed and identified as being preferred is considered to be part of a best mode contemplated for carrying out the present invention. Other embodiments also may be discussed for additional illustrative purposes in providing a full and enabling disclosure of the present invention. Moreover many embodiments such as adaptations variations modifications and equivalent arrangements will be implicitly disclosed by the embodiments described herein and fall within the scope of the present invention.

Accordingly while the present invention is described herein in detail in relation to one or more embodiments it is to be understood that this disclosure is illustrative and exemplary of the present invention and is made merely for the purposes of providing a full and enabling disclosure of the present invention. The detailed disclosure herein of one or more embodiments is not intended nor is to be construed to limit the scope of patent protection afforded the present invention which scope is to be defined by the claims and the equivalents thereof. It is not intended that the scope of patent protection afforded the present invention be defined by reading into any claim a limitation found herein that does not explicitly appear in the claim itself.

Thus for example any sequence s and or temporal order of steps of various processes or methods that are described herein are illustrative and not restrictive. Accordingly it should be understood that although steps of various processes or methods may be shown and described as being in a sequence or temporal order the steps of any such processes or methods are not limited to being carried out in any particular sequence or order absent an indication otherwise. Indeed the steps in such processes or methods generally may be carried out in various different sequences and orders while still falling within the scope of the present invention. Accordingly it is intended that the scope of patent protection afforded the present invention is to be defined by the appended claims rather than the description set forth herein.

Additionally it is important to note that each term used herein refers to that which the Ordinary Artisan would understand such term to mean based on the contextual use of such term herein. To the extent that the meaning of a term used herein as understood by the Ordinary Artisan based on the contextual use of such term differs in any way from any particular dictionary definition of such term it is intended that the meaning of the term as understood by the Ordinary Artisan should prevail.

Furthermore it is important to note that as used herein a and an each generally denotes at least one but does not exclude a plurality unless the contextual use dictates otherwise. Thus reference to a picnic basket having an apple describes a picnic basket having at least one apple as well as a picnic basket having apples. In contrast reference to a picnic basket having a single apple describes a picnic basket having only one apple. 

When used herein to join a list of items or denotes at least one of the items but does not exclude a plurality of items of the list. Thus reference to a picnic basket having cheese or crackers describes a picnic basket having cheese without crackers a picnic basket having crackers without cheese and a picnic basket having both cheese and crackers. Finally when used herein to join a list of items and denotes all of the items of the list. Thus reference to a picnic basket having cheese and crackers describes a picnic basket having cheese wherein the picnic basket further has crackers as well as describes a picnic basket having crackers wherein the picnic basket further has cheese. 

Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals represent like components throughout the several views preferred embodiments of the present invention are next described. The following description of preferred embodiment s is merely exemplary in nature and is in no way intended to limit the invention its application or uses.

The asset monitoring and or tracking systems of each utilizes wireless tag readers located within the highway trailers and shipping containers for reading wireless tags and or for receiving sensor acquired data from sensors within or associated with the highway trailers and shipping containers in accordance with the disclosures of U.S. Pat. No. 6 745 027 B2 International Patent Application Publication No. WO 03 032501 A2 designating the United States and published in English and International Patent Application Publication No. WO 03 098851 A1 designating the United States and published in English each of which has been incorporated herein by reference. For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 745 027 discloses wireless transceivers configured both to communicate with one another and relay messages as illustrated in of the present application which is a reproduction of FIG. 8 of the 027 patent which illustrates node of a network communicating with nodes and and to form hierarchical networks as illustrated in which is a reproduction of of the 027 patent which illustrates a topology of the network of . As used herein the term wireless tag WT refers to a wireless transceiver that is associated with an asset to be tracked. WTs can be for example passive active or semi passive but preferably each WT is a semi passive transceiver. Also as used herein the term wireless tag reader WT reader refers to a wireless transceiver that generally is used to read WTs. WT readers can be for example passive active or semi passive but preferably each WT reader is an active transceiver. As illustrated in highway trailers and shipping containers and the contents thereof may be tracked using WTs sensors WT readers and the principles described in the above mentioned patent references.

In particular as described in these patent references gateways sometimes referred to as gateway controllers or GC are mounted in spaced relation to each other and connected together to a server based application via a wide area network WAN which may include for example the Internet. The gateways are used to wirelessly communicate with and obtain information from the WT readers according to principles well disclosed in the references. The wireless communications preferably comprise radiofrequency communications whose transmissions are within the 2.4 GHz band such as Bluetooth communications or WiFi communications.

Additionally mobile gateways are illustrated on the trucks pulling the containers and trailers and include satellite communications whereby communications may be passed through the mobile gateways between the WT readers and the server based application even during transportation of the shipping containers and highway trailers in remote areas. As shown the mobile gateways are mounted on the cabs of the trucks and preferably are powered by the electrical systems of the trucks for communications with the WT readers via for example Bluetooth communications as well as for communication with the WAN via satellite communications. The mobile gateways further may include cellular communication capabilities WiFi capabilities UWB Ultra Wide Band capabilities and or WiMAX capabilities in addition to or in substitution for the satellite communication capabilities for communications with the WAN .

A drawback to the systems shown in is that communications with WT readers disposed within the trailers and shipping containers both by the gateways and the mobile gateways can be degraded due to the construction materials of the walls of the trailers and shipping containers which often are made of steel or an alloy thereof. Such materials reduce the range and effectiveness of radiofrequency communication which is the preferred mode of communication with the WT readers . This problem furthermore is aggravated when maritime shipping containers are stacked during storage and transportation. Although less of an issue a similar problem exists when highway trailers are closely parked together in trucking depots or warehouse environments. Accordingly in addressing this problem and as used herein the term shipping container is intended to refer broadly to both the standard ISO maritime shipping containers as well as highway only trailers and the like.

Within the context of the shipping containers illustrated in the present invention improves communications between internal and external communication devices in order to provide improved visibility of assets within the shipping containers . In this respect various keyhole communication devices are provided that improve communications between the interior and exterior of the shipping containers even when the shipping containers are stacked during storage and transportation or closely parked beside each other. In this context the keyhole communication devices of the present invention are described in detail below and with reference to the various drawings.

Accordingly generally illustrates a shipping port in which an asset monitoring and or tracking system is utilized that has shipping containers with keyhole communication devices attached thereto in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention and generally illustrates a warehouse in which an asset monitoring and or tracking system is utilized that has shipping containers with keyhole communication devices attached thereto in accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention. It will be appreciated from comparison of with that the keyhole communication devices of the invention communicate not only with the satellite in the manner of the mobile gateways of but also with the stationary gateways in the manner of the WT readers of . In this regard the keyhole communication devices of the preferred embodiments of communicate both with the WT readers not shown disposed within the interior of the shipping containers and with various external communication devices including for example the satellite and the stationary gateways . The keyhole communication device of each shipping container thus serves as a liaison between internal and external communications.

Furthermore as discussed in greater detail below the keyhole communication device itself may receive process and transmit messages intended for and authored by the keyhole communication device or alternatively the keyhole communication device may simply function as a repeater and pass communications to and from the interior of the shipping container repeating each message as it is received. Still yet the keyhole communication device may include operational modes. In the first mode the keyhole communication device may receive process and transmit messages intended for and authored by the keyhole communication device and in the second mode the keyhole communication device may simply function as a repeater and pass communications to and from the interior of the shipping container repeating each message as it is received. The mode of operation also may be remotely selected. For instance if the keyhole communication device includes class based or common designation based wake up features as disclosed in some of the incorporated references then the mode of operation may be dependent upon the common designation that is used to wake up the keyhole communication device .

The shipping containers of are now described with respect to the exemplary shipping container of . In this respect illustrates an implementation of a network connected keyhole communication device attached to an exemplary ISO maritime shipping container in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

As more fully described herein below the keyhole communication device is mounted on a part of the wall structure of the container with one portion being disposed within the interior of the container and another portion being disposed outside of the container . Furthermore while the keyhole communication device may be mounted on any suitable portion of the wall structure including a door the ceiling the floor and any side wall it is frequently advantageous to mount the keyhole communication device at a relatively high elevation on one of the side walls of the container . The higher location helps minimize interference during the above described communications with the WAN . In addition it has been found that electronics devices are often subjected to excessive jarring shaking and bumping when mounted on access doors due to the additional movement caused by opening and closing of the doors and thus it is preferred that the keyhole communication device be mounted on a more stable structure such as on one of the side walls in order to avoid any unnecessary jarring shaking and bumping. Furthermore the side wall is preferred to the ceiling and floor as it is believed that the keyhole communication device would be less susceptible to damage if attached to the side wall. Indeed the housing components of the keyhole communication device preferably conform to and fit within the ribbed corrugated shaped recesses of the side walls for added protection of the keyhole communication device .

The keyhole communication device as illustrated is disposed in at least intermittent electronic communication with the WAN by way of any of a wide variety of technologies including but not limited to WiFi Bluetooth mobile phone satellite and the like or a combination thereof. In particular the keyhole communication devices communicate with gateways that provide access to the WAN . in the exemplary systems of the communication devices communicate with stationary gateways and mobile gateways . For example the mobile gateways communicate with a satellite . The satellite is in turn connected via the WAN to the server based tracking and or monitoring application which is generally embodied by a network server and an associated database system but other topologies will be apparent to the Ordinary Artisan. Similarly the stationary gateways preferably include a centralized broadband connection to the Internet and WAN for communicating with the server based tracking and or monitoring application . Such a tracking and or monitoring application is more fully disclosed in the aforementioned incorporated references and is not further described herein.

Various communication protocols may be utilized in the communications by the keyhole communication devices with the various gateways. Moreover different keyhole communication devices may have different capabilities for communications. In this regard one keyhole communication device may include only Bluetooth or WiFi capabilities for communicating with a gateway while another keyhole communication device may include cellular or satellite capabilities for communicating with a gateway.

In any event the keyhole communication device comprises a two way communication device that preferably communicates not only with gateways but also communicates with additional communication devices disposed within the interior of the shipping containers . In an exemplary scenario illustrated in the additional communication devices comprise for example WT readers each of which may further communicate with WTs that are associated with assets or items that are being shipped within the container. Alternatively however the keyhole communication device may communicate directly with the WTs as shown in provided that the keyhole communication device includes the capabilities required for reading the WTs. The communication devices may be packaged within the packaging of the respective items integrated into pallets of the respective items integrated into the packaging integrated or disposed within the items themselves or integrated with the items in any other matter as desired. The communication devices located in the shipping container also preferably form ad hoc class based networks as disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 745 027 B2 International Patent Application Publication No. WO 03 032501 A2 designating the United States and published in English and International Patent Application Publication No. WO 03 098851 A1 designating the United States and published in English each of which is incorporated herein by reference. In this regard it should be appreciated that the keyhole communication device of the present invention may represent a gateway itself to the communication devices within the shipping container in accordance with these incorporated patent references.

In this respect the keyhole communication device facilitates communication between the communication devices located within the shipping container and the server based application that is located remotely from the shipping container . Specifically data is communicated from the communication devices to the keyhole communication device and the data and or data indicative thereof is further communicated from the keyhole communication device via a gateway over the WAN to the server whereat the communicated data preferably is stored in the database system . The data communication between the communication devices and the keyhole communication device and between the keyhole communication device and a gateway is accomplished in accordance with a standardized communications protocol including Bluetooth and WiFi communication protocols. Furthermore the data may be communicated upon a triggering event and or in response to inquiries sent from the server as desired. The data also may be transmitted at regularly scheduled intervals as desired.

In this implementation however the keyhole communication device comprises a two way communication device that is capable of communication with other nearby wired or wireless devices . As illustrated in several such nearby devices may be distributed throughout the shipping container or located nearby the shipping container not shown . In this implementation each device comprises a sensor with which the communication device is interfaced. Alternatively each device may comprise a remote sensor interface RSI with which the keyhole communication device wirelessly communicates with the RSIs being interfaced with the sensors. The sensors may include but are not limited to temperature sensors motion sensors humidity sensors radiation sensors video cameras still cameras microphones electronic magnetic seal sensors and the like whereby conditions characteristics etc. regarding the shipping container and or the contents thereof may be monitored and or tracked. If provided communications between the RSIs and the keyhole communication device preferably are carried out in accordance with a standardized communications protocol including Bluetooth and WiFi communication protocols.

Indeed as used herein the term sensor is intended to relate broadly to many types of devices that are each in some way sensitive to the security integrity configuration condition disposition orientation location contents or surroundings of a container . Thus a sensor can be a seal monitor that detects openings and closures of a container . A sensor can be an inclination monitor for detecting the overturning or tipping of a container that should be maintained in a particular orientation. A sensor can be a device or array of devices for measuring state conditions of a container or that of its contents such as temperature volume weight or mass and pressure. A sensor can be any activity monitoring or reconnaissance device such as a camera a microphone a motion detector a light detector and a broad band RF signal scanner. A sensor can be a device for detecting physical presence asset movement and tampering such as a pressure sensitive pad on a floor or surface a switch on an access panel and an optical device such as an infra red beam device or an on board accelerometer. A sensor also can be a device that detects any hazardous material such as those that represent chemical biological radiological nuclear and explosive CBRNE threats. Such a sensor thus could be used to detect weapons of mass destruction within the shipping container .

The devices communicate via the keyhole communication device with the server based application that is remotely located to the shipping container . In this respect the keyhole communication device facilitates communication between the communication devices located within the shipping container and the server based application that is located remotely from the shipping container . Specifically data including data acquired from the sensors of the shipping container and or data indicative of the sensor readings from the sensors in the shipping container is communicated from the communication devices to the keyhole communication device and the data and or data indicative thereof is further communicated from the keyhole communication device via a gateway over the WAN to the server whereat the communicated data preferably is stored in the database system . The data communication between the devices and the keyhole communication device and between the keyhole communication device and a gateway preferably is accomplished in accordance with a standardized communications protocol including Bluetooth and WiFi communication protocols. Furthermore the data may be communicated upon a triggering event and or in response to inquiries sent from the server as desired. The data also may be transmitted at regularly scheduled intervals as desired.

Furthermore as will be appreciated from the incorporated references the implementations of may be combined wherein the keyhole communication device acquires and communicates data from communication devices and from devices . Additionally a communication device itself may include or be disposed in electronic communication with one or more sensors such as those described with regard to and sensor acquired data may be obtained from the communication device .

It should be noted that any manner of securing the internal and external components together that result in the external component residing on the exterior of the shipping container and the internal component residing on the interior of the shipping container may be utilized in connection with the present invention and the screw type connection is shown only as one possible manner of achieving such a connection in order to provide an enabling disclosure of the present invention. Other manners of securing the components together may include latching snapping adhering the two components or their equivalents.

As will be appreciated it often is desirable to maintain the integrity of the environment within the shipping container especially with regard to interior temperature and humidity. In order to maintain the integrity of the interior of the shipping container sealing rings formed from a resilient material such as rubber are preferably provided between each of the two components and the shipping container wall about the opening . The sealing rings seal the opening in the wall of the shipping container and at least reduce the amount of if not eliminate the moisture that otherwise may pass through the opening in the shipping container wall . The sealing rings may further be made of an insulating material to reduce the flow of heat through the opening in the shipping container wall between the interior and exterior of the shipping container . Furthermore one of the sealing rings may be omitted if only a single seal is deemed necessary or desirable in preserving the interior environment of the shipping container .

Each component of a keyhole communication device preferably is made from a radio frequency RF friendly material i.e. a material that does not significantly impede transmission of RF energy.

In a variation of a keyhole communication device not shown the first and second components are integral with each other and do not constitute separate components. In this regard an exterior section and an interior section not shown may be integrally formed together in a molding process out of one or more RF friendly materials. Additionally the opening in a shipping container wall is preferably large enough to accommodate the passing there through of the equivalent of at least one of the sections i.e. one or both ends of a structure similar to that of the combined components as shown in their assembled state in for securing the keyhole communication device to the shipping container wall . The particular portion that is passed through the opening may include resilient elements to facilitate the insertion of that portion through the opening and additionally to provide resistance to removal of that portion from the opening .

In accordance with the present invention the keyhole communication device includes an electronics assembly that is housed in one or both of the internal and external components . The design and implementation of the electronics assembly depends upon the functionality desired in the keyhole communication device . Indeed many different variations exist in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. Furthermore In those keyhole communication devices in which the electronics assembly is distributed between both the internal and external components then the internal and external components preferably further include electrical contacts not shown that connect when the components are secured together. These electrical contacts provide a data communications link between electronics located in each of the two components of the keyhole communication device as well as power and ground connections between the two components .

The components of the electronics assembly that are disposed within the external component i.e. the component of the keyhole communication device that is located exterior to the cargo area of the shipping container preferably include an antenna or antennas for wireless communications with a gateway. Depending on the wireless communication protocol used by a particular gateway the electronics assembly housed in the exterior component may include for example an antenna for satellite communications an antenna for cellular communications an antenna for WiFi communications an antenna for WiMAX communications an antenna for UWB communications and or an antenna for Bluetooth communications. Conversely the components of the electronics assembly housed within the interior component i.e. the component of the keyhole communication device that is located proximate or within the interior of the cargo area of the shipping container preferably include circuitry for sending and receiving transmissions via the one or more antennas housed within the external component .

In this regard it is believed to optimal to minimize the size of the exterior component in order to reduce the likelihood of damage to the exterior component when for example the shipping containers are stacked during transport and storage. Accordingly while it nevertheless is preferred to include antennas within the exterior component for increased range of communication with a gateway it is still preferred to include the associated circuitry for such antennas within the interior component . For this same reason the internal power source for the electronics assembly of the keyhole communication device also is preferably located within the interior component .

With particular regard to communications by the keyhole communication device with devices within the shipping container i.e. with respect to internal communications the antenna for internal communications preferably is disposed within the external component and the associated circuitry for controlling such communications preferably is disposed within the internal component . Moreover to the extent that the communications protocol with the gateway is the same as the communications protocol for the internal communications the antenna and associated electronic circuitry that used for the gateway communications is further used for the internal communications.

As a result of the preferred location of the antennas within the exterior component of the keyhole communication device it further will be appreciated that one or more of the antennas and associated circuitry may be utilized to establish communications with communications devices in addition to gateways that are exterior to but within the general vicinity of the shipping container . Such additional communications with exterior devices may comprise for example the establishing of an ad hoc class based network with keyhole communication devices attached to neighboring shipping containers . In this regard each keyhole communication device may itself comprise a node in such a network as such network nodes are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 745 027. Furthermore as disclosed therein classes and sub classes may be established that are internal to a particular shipping container external to a particular shipping container or that include nodes both inside the shipping container and outside the shipping container .

Furthermore such additional communications by the keyhole communication device could comprise for example a communications path by which a neighboring keyhole communication device that otherwise is not equipped to communicate with available gateways or is having difficulties in carrying out such communications for any of a variety of reasons nevertheless may communicate to the server based application via the keyhole communication device through one of the available gateways . Indeed in such circumstances and in order to facilitate relatively wide area communications between such keyhole communication devices each keyhole communication device may include for example a WiMAX radio not shown for intercommunications between keyhole communication devices . In this regard the exterior component preferably includes therein the antenna for such WiMAX intercommunications with the associated circuitry again being disposed within the interior . In such an arrangement communications may be relayed or hopped from one keyhole communication device to another until a gateway or other WAN access point is reached.

The opening in which the keyhole communication device is secured may be created when the shipping container is manufactured or alternatively a shipping container may be retrofitted with a keyhole communication device in accordance with the present invention preferably by forming an opening in a wall of the shipping container . Retrofitting shipping containers is especially beneficial in view of the large number of existing shipping containers in use in commerce today.

Importantly the opening that is formed in the wall of the shipping container preferably includes a diameter of at least one quarter wavelength and more preferably a diameter of one full wavelength of the radio waves that are used to communicate through the opening of the container wall with communication devices within the shipping container . In preferred implementations of the present invention a frequency within the 2.4 Gigahertz GHz band is utilized for internal communications and consequently the diameter of the opening in the wall of the shipping container preferably includes a diameter of at least 3 and preferably 13 centimeters cm . Of course the reception improves as the diameter of the opening is increased however container integrity is a very significant consideration and minimizing the size of the hole is an important factor in preserving the integrity of the container and thus a preferred diameter range of between 3 and 13 cm inclusive is specified herein when the 2.4 GHz band is utilized for such communication. The provision of an opening having such a diameter maintains a high degree of container integrity while at the same time facilitates communications in and out of the shipping container when the antenna that is used for the internal communications is disposed within the exterior component of the keyhole communications device . Positioning of this antenna within the exterior component further enables greater range for communicating with communication devices exterior to the shipping container without loss of communication coverage into and out of the shipping container . Nonetheless it will be apparent that still larger diameters may be preferred for applications where improved communication reliability greater range or the like is desired or necessary. Moreover it will be apparent that diameters larger than 3 13 cm may be necessary or desirable for communication taking place at lower frequencies and that smaller diameters may be sufficient for communications taking place at higher frequencies.

A second alternative electronics assembly shown in includes a first antenna disposed in the exterior component of the keyhole communication device at least a second antenna that is also disposed in the exterior component of the keyhole communication device and circuitry disposed in the interior component . In this arrangement the first antenna is a preferably short range RF antenna while the second antenna is a specialized antenna for longer range communications such as a satellite antenna or cellular telephone antenna. The circuitry may include a radio portion for each antenna a control portion a battery not shown and or other portions as desired wherein a first radio portion handles the transmission and reception of short range RF signals a second radio portion handles the transmission and reception of longer range RF signals and the control portion generally handles all other functions. Given an opening of sufficient diameter i.e. as described above a diameter equal to at least one quarter wavelength and more preferably one full wavelength of the radio waves used to communicate through the opening the placement of the RF antenna in the exterior component of the keyhole communication device once again permits the device to communicate with nearby gateways and or other devices such as neighboring keyhole communication devices while still facilitating communication using the same antenna between the device and communication devices internal to the container . In addition the second radio portion and antenna permit this arrangement of the electronics assembly to carry out wider range communications such as cellular communication or the satellite communications illustrated in thus providing the ability to track and or monitor the container and its contents when the container is traveling or otherwise out of the range of one of the fixed location gateways .

A third alternative electronics assembly shown in includes a first antenna disposed in the exterior component of the keyhole communication device a second antenna disposed in the interior component of the keyhole communication device and circuitry disposed in the interior component . In this arrangement the first antenna is a preferably short range RF antenna while the second antenna is also a short range antenna intended specifically for wireless communications within the shipping container as contemplated above. The circuitry may include a radio portion for the antennas a control portion a battery not shown and or other portions as desired wherein the radio portion handles the transmission and reception of short range RF signals via either antenna and the control portion generally handles all other functions. This arrangement of the electronics assembly is preferred for its ability to communicate both externally and internally with separate antennas thus obviating or at least reducing the need for a wall opening of minimum diameter since there is little or no need for wireless transmissions to pass through the opening . Furthermore in a first variation of this alternative assembly the circuitry may further include a second radio portion not shown wherein a first radio portion handles the transmission and reception of RF signals via the first antenna and the second radio portion handles the transmission and reception of RF signals via the first antenna . Still further in a second variation of this alternative assembly the long range antenna and radio portion shown in may be combined therewith.

In an additional variation applicable to one or more of the various alternative electronics assemblies shown in the respective electronics assembly may further include as contemplated hereinabove a GPS receiver not shown for determining a geographic location of the shipping container whereby data communicated to the server based application may include locational data of the shipping container as determined by the GPS receiver. Such a keyhole communication device preferably includes a patch antenna for the GPS receiver within the exterior component and includes the GPS receiver within the interior component .

A fourth alternative electronics assembly shown in includes an antenna disposed in the exterior component of the keyhole communication device and circuitry disposed in the interior component . In this arrangement the antenna is once again a preferably short range RF antenna. However in this arrangement the circuitry may simply include a radio portion a battery not shown and or other portions as desired wherein the radio portion is merely a repeater that handles the reception and retransmission of RF signals. The repeater function may be used to amplify and retransmit signals received from devices inside the shipping container nearby communication devices such other keyhole communication devices on or in adjacent shipping containers gateways or any combination thereof. Given an opening of sufficient diameter i.e. as described above a diameter equal to at least one quarter wavelength and more preferably one full wavelength of the radio waves used to communicate through the opening the placement of the RF antenna in the exterior component of the keyhole communication device permits devices inside the container to communicate via the keyhole communication device with nearby gateways and or other devices such as neighboring keyhole communication devices . This arrangement of the electronics assembly may be useful as being even simpler and cheaper than the assembly shown in but is limited in its inability to provide any function other than merely repeating retransmitting signals into and from the shipping container .

In order to reduce unnecessary power consumption by a keyhole communication device each keyhole communication device preferably utilizes the technology disclosed in International Patent Application Publication No. WO 03 098851 A1 for selective wake up. This technology is sometimes referred to as tag turn on technology the electronics responsible for transmitting one or more appropriate RF signals to wake up an intended device is sometimes referred to as tag turn on or TTO and the electronics in the intended device that is responsible for monitoring for the appropriate RF signal or signals and waking up the rest of the device is sometimes referred to as a tag turn on circuit or TTOC. In accordance with this feature a keyhole communication device preferably includes in the exterior component thereof the TTOC including both the electronics and the antenna thereof for monitoring for the appropriate RF signal or signals and waking up the rest of the keyhole communication device . In fact due to the sensitivity of the monitoring for the RF signal to wake up the rest of the keyhole communication device significant physical separation of the antenna from the electronics of the TTOC is not recommended and thus the exterior component of the keyhole communication device preferably contains both the TTOC antenna and the electronics thereof.

It is furthermore contemplated that communication devices located both interior and exterior to the shipping container will likewise have the technology disclosed in International Patent Application Publication No. WO 03 098851 A1 for selective wake up of the respective device in response to an RF signal intended for that device . Accordingly a keyhole communication device equipped to communicate with such devices preferably includes tag turn on electronics including an antenna thereof. Furthermore the TTO electronics and antenna may be contained within the interior component if applied in an implementation that is shipping container internal centric or alternatively the antenna and preferably the TTO electronics as well may be located in the exterior compartment if communication devices both interior and exterior to the shipping container are to be awakened by the keyhole communication device .

It will be apparent to the Ordinary Artisan that the configuration of the components may vary widely but should generally be designed so as to fit within or around any particular contours of the wall of the shipping container . Indeed walls of shipping containers often have a corrugated shape and the components should preferably have configurations that fit within or conform to such shape for a seamless fit therewith. Various different configurations are illustrated herein. In discussed above each of the components has a cross sectional configuration that is generally rectangular with rounded corners. Other exemplary configurations are illustrated in . discloses a communication device in which the internal and external components each have a cross sectional configuration that is semicircular. discloses yet another communication device in which the internal and external components have differing cross sectional configurations in this regard the internal component has a cross sectional configuration that is rectangular with square corners while the external component has a cross sectional configuration that is trapezoidal also with square corners. It will be apparent that any suitable configuration may be used for both the internal and external components of a keyhole communication device without departing from the scope of the present invention.

Many benefits are provided by the present invention. Indeed one or more benefits provided by various embodiments of the present invention include inter alia the protection of electronics inside the shipping container the provision of good communications coverage beyond the shipping container with the antennae being disposed outside of the shipping container the provision of good communications coverage within the shipping container through the opening in the shipping container wall the reduction in power consumption due to the lower output power required to communicate between the interior and exterior of the shipping container the ability to position sensors inside and outside of the container with minimal or no wired connections and the avoidance of single failure points.

Based on the foregoing information it is readily understood by those persons skilled in the art that the present invention is susceptible of broad utility and application. Many embodiments and adaptations of the present invention other than those specifically described herein as well as many variations modifications and equivalent arrangements will be apparent from or reasonably suggested by the present invention and the foregoing descriptions thereof without departing from the substance or scope of the present invention. Accordingly while the present invention has been described herein in detail in relation to its preferred embodiment it is to be understood that this disclosure is only illustrative and exemplary of the present invention and is made merely for the purpose of providing a full and enabling disclosure of the invention. The foregoing disclosure is not intended to be construed to limit the present invention or otherwise exclude any such other embodiments adaptations variations modifications or equivalent arrangements the present invention being limited only by the claims appended hereto and the equivalents thereof. Although specific terms are employed herein they are used in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for the purpose of limitation.

