---

title: Virtual electronic paymaster method and system
abstract: A virtual electronic paymaster system and method for processing a paycheck utilizing a multi-function device. A virtual paymaster application can be configured in association with an EIP (Extensible Interface Platform) enabled multi-function device in order to render the paycheck with respect to an employee. An identification card having a bar code can be placed on a platen of the multi-function device in order to obtain authentication data with respect to the employee upon providing a PIN number via a user interface. The authentication data can be further provided to a remote application server via a network in order to retrieve the payment information with respect to the employee from a payroll database. The paycheck can be locally rendered based on the rendering instructions from the remote application server thereby enhancing the payroll processing within a business environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08738480&OS=08738480&RS=08738480
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 08738480
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101208
---
Embodiments are generally related to electronic payroll processing methods and systems. Embodiments are also related to multi function devices such as for example printers scanners photocopy machines and the like. Embodiments are additionally related to methods for processing paychecks.

Payroll processing involves the distribution of wages with respect to employees within a business organization by accounting for various types of withholdings such as for example taxes insurance payments credits reimbursements bonuses etc. A payroll processing system can be configured to maintain payroll information such as employee compensation pay periods deductions and tax status in order to deliver an appropriate payment via a printed paycheck and or a deposit advice notice with respect to a particular employee.

Payroll departments can distribute paychecks to employees electronically manually and or via the postal service. One prior art payroll approach for example involves the use of an in house payroll mode for processing and delivering paychecks. Such an approach requires dedicated payroll personnel for handing out the paychecks in the business environment. Another prior art technique involves the use of a third party service for mailing the paychecks to the employee. Such prior art approaches however are a costly and time consuming and place an added burden on the employees who work on field or change addresses frequently such as for example military service personnel or recipients working in a foreign country. Furthermore a direct deposit approach is not possible in the case of low income employment and or a temporary employment scenario where mailing the paychecks and setting up a direct deposit account may not be desired and feasible.

Based on the foregoing it is believed that a need exists for an improved virtual electronic paymaster system and method for efficiently processing a paycheck as described in greater detail herein.

The following summary is provided to facilitate an understanding of some of the innovative features unique to the disclosed embodiment and is not intended to be a full description. A full appreciation of the various aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein can be gained by taking the entire specification claims drawings and abstract as a whole.

It is therefore one aspect of the disclosed embodiments to provide for an improved virtual electronic paymaster system and method.

It is another aspect of the disclosed embodiments to provide for an improved networked rendering device such as for example a printer scanner photocopy machine fax machine and or an MFD.

It is a further aspect of the disclosed embodiments to provide for an improved system and method for virtually processing a paycheck utilizing a multi function device.

The aforementioned aspects and other objectives and advantages can now be achieved as described herein. A virtual electronic paymaster system and method for efficiently processing a paycheck is disclosed herein. A virtual paymaster application can be configured in association with a rendering device such as for example an EIP Extensible Interface Platform enabled MFD in order to render the paycheck with respect to an employee. An identification card e.g. a credit card a badge having a bar code can be placed on a platen of the MFD in order to obtain authentication data with respect to the employee upon providing a PIN personnel identification number number via a user interface. The authentication data can be further provided to a remote application server via a network in order to retrieve the payment information current pending payments with respect to the employee from a payroll database. The paycheck can be locally rendered based on a rendering instruction from the remote application server in order to enhance the payroll processing within a business environment.

The paymaster application can be launched by tapping a graphically displayed paycheck button on the user interface of the MFD. The identification card with respect to the employee can be placed on the platen upon receiving a user prompt from the paymaster application. The MFD can be communicated with the application server via a standard SSL Secure Sockets Layer encrypted connection in order to provide an adequate protection with respect to the identification card PIN number of the employee.

The paymaster system can be operated in a failsafe mode by determining a fault condition such as for example paper jam out of toner or blemish in the MFD and a fault message can be transmitted to the application server in order to cancel the paycheck and credit the payment into the employee account. A confirmation can be provided with respect to the paycheck in order to confirm the payment in the MFD. Similarly the paycheck can be canceled and the payment can be credited to the employee account when the user terminates the payment process in the MFD. Such an approach provides an improved application programming interface that permits the multi function device to provide specialized payroll services above and beyond the standard capabilities.

The particular values and configurations discussed in these non limiting examples can be varied and are cited merely to illustrate at least one embodiment and are not intended to limit the scope thereof.

The embodiments now will be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which illustrative embodiments of the invention are shown. The embodiments disclosed herein can be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and complete and will fully convey the scope of the invention to those skilled in the art. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout. As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

Unless otherwise defined all terms including technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. It will be further understood that terms such as those defined in commonly used dictionaries should be interpreted as having a meaning that is consistent with their meaning in the context of the relevant art and will not be interpreted in an idealized or overly formal sense unless expressly so defined herein.

As will be appreciated by one of skill in the art one or more of the disclosed embodiments can be embodied as a method system or computer program usable medium or computer program product. Accordingly the disclosed embodiments can in some instances take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects all generally referred to herein as a module Furthermore the disclosed embodiments may take the form of a computer usable medium or computer program product on a computer usable storage medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium. Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized including hard disks USB Flash Drives DVDs CD ROMs optical storage devices magnetic storage devices etc.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in an object oriented programming language e.g. Java C etc. The computer program code however for carrying out operations of the present invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or in a visually oriented programming environment such as for example Visual Basic.

The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to a user s computer through a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN wireless data network e.g. WiFi Wimax 802.xx and cellular network or the connection may be made to an external computer via most third party supported networks for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The disclosed embodiments are described in part below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods systems computer program products and data structures according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the illustrations and combinations of blocks can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the block or blocks.

Referring to system can be configured to include one or more networked devices such as networked device coupled to a data processing apparatus through a network . In some embodiments networked device may be a rendering device such as a printer scanner copy machine etc. In other embodiments networked device may be for example an MFD a file server and or a print server. The data processing apparatus may be for example a personal computer or other computing device and generally includes a central processor a display device a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. mouse track ball pen device or the like . Additional input output devices such as the rendering device may be included in association with the data processing apparatus as desired.

Note that as utilized herein the term networked device may refer to an apparatus or system such as a printer scanner fax machine copy machine etc. and or a combination thereof e.g. an MFD . Preferably networked device is an MFD capable of multiple rendering functions such as printing copying scanning faxing etc. In some embodiments the rendering device may be implemented with a single rendering function such as printing. In other embodiments the rendering device can be configured to provide multiple rendering functions such as scanning faxing printing and copying.

A non limiting example of an MFD that can be utilized as rendering device is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 525 676 entitled System and Method for Controlling Access to Programming Options of a Multifunction Device which issued on Apr. 28 2009 to Robert J. Pesar. U.S. Pat. No. 7 525 676 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety is assigned to the Xerox Corporation of Norwalk Conn. Another non limiting example of an MFD that can be utilized as rendering devices is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 474 428 entitled Multifunction Device System Using Tags Containing Output Information which issued on Jan. 6 2009 to Morris Jones et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 474 428 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety is also assigned to the Xerox Corporation of Norwalk Conn. An additional example of an MFD that can be utilized as rendering devices is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 920 405 entitled Multifunction Device With Printer Facsimile Contention Selection which issued on Jul. 6 1999 to McIntyre et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 920 405 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety is also assigned to the Xerox Corporation of Norwalk Conn.

The data processing apparatus can be coupled to the rendering device and other rendering devices through a computer network . Network may employ any network topology transmission medium or network protocol. The network may include connections such as wire wireless communication links or fiber optic cables. In the depicted example network is the Internet representing a worldwide collection of networks and gateways that use the Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP suite of protocols to communicate with one another. At the heart of the Internet is a backbone of high speed data communication lines between major nodes or host computers consisting of thousands of commercial government educational and other computer systems that route data and messages.

The networked device includes a user interface such as a panel menu. The panel menu may be used to select features and enter other data in the device . Such interfaces may include for example touch screens having touch activated keys for navigating through an option menu or the like. A driver program for example can be installed on the data processing apparatus and can reside on the host device s hard drive . The driver program may be activated through an application interface so that a user may generate a print job with the driver for processing by the rendering device .

The data processing apparatus also includes a GUI for communicating rendering features for processing for example a print job to a user and accepting the user s selection of available rendering features. The user interface displays information and receives data through device display and or the keyboard mouse combination. The interface also serves to display results whereupon the user may supply additional inputs or terminate a given session. The data processing apparatus can be for example any computing device capable of being integrated within a network such as a PDA personal computer cellular telephone point of sale terminal server etc.

The input device of the networked device for example may be a local user interface such as a touch screen display or separate keypad and display or a memory fob or the like as discussed above. Alternatively or additionally the input device may be a wireless port that receives a wireless signal containing constraint data from a portable device. The wireless signal may be an infrared or electromagnetic signal. A system administrator may input constraint data through the local user interface by manipulating the touch screen keypad or communicating via wireless messages through the wireless port. The administrator s portable device that communicates wirelessly may be a personal digital assistant PDA or the like as noted above.

The following description is presented with respect to embodiments of the present invention which can be embodied in the context of a data processing apparatus and networked device depicted in . The present invention however is not limited to any particular application or any particular environment. Instead those skilled in the art will find that the system and methods of the present invention may be advantageously applied to a variety of system and application software including database management systems word processors and the like. Moreover the present invention may be embodied on a variety of different platforms including Macintosh UNIX LINUX and the like. Therefore the description of the exemplary embodiments which follows is for purposes of illustration and not considered a limitation.

In general Internet and communications technology fosters the de coupling of space where events happen and storage technologies facilitate de coupling of time between a message being sent and received. These technologies build the environment for virtual work in teams with members who may never meet each other in person. Communicating by telephone and e mail with work products shared electronically virtual teams produce results without being co located. Similarly a virtual world is a type of habitation founded upon web technology that allows interactions for pursuits such as economy and real estate.

The virtual electronic paymaster system depicted in thus generally includes the MFD illustrated earlier with respect to along with a remote application server and a payroll database that are operatively configured in association with the network . Data processing system depicted in can be for example the remote application server . The MFD can be located remotely with respect to the application server or alternatively they may be located locally with respect to the server .

The MFD is an office machine which incorporates the functionality of multiple devices in one so as to provide centralized document management document distribution and production in a large office setting and the like. The typical MFD may act as a combination of a printer scanner photocopier fax and e mail. While the MFD is shown by way of example it is to be appreciated that any number of MFDs may be linked to the network such as three four six or more MFDs. In general the MFD can be employed to perform a rendering output function e.g. printing scanning copying faxing etc. within a networked environment.

The MFD includes the user interface a keypad and a platen . The platen of the MFD can be a transparent glass plate housed with a scanning unit with an upper face exposed. The platen has a rectangular shape extending in a left right direction in order to scan the objects such as for example an identification card of the employee . Note that the platen can be also employed to scan other types of objects such as documents and books in the MFD . The payroll database can be employed to store the payroll records and the employee information with respect to the employee in the business organization. The application server of the paymaster system includes a payroll processing module that can be employed to process the paychecks with respect to the employee .

The MFD further includes a processor circuit having a memory and a processor coupled to a local interface . The local interface can be for example a data bus with an accompanying control address bus. The memory stores an operating system and a control module that are executable by the processor . The MFD also includes various rendering device components such as motors and mechanical paper path components as well as image creation components. A wireless network interface coupled to the local interface facilitates wireless communication with respect to the MFD .

The paymaster application generates a user prompt in order to alert the employee to place the identification card on the platen of the MFD . Note that the identification card can be such as for example but not limited to a credit card and or a badge having a barcode. It can be appreciated that other types of identification cards may be utilized in place of the suggested identification card . The MFD retrieves an authentication data with respect to the employee upon providing a PIN personnel identification number number . The authentication data can be transmitted to the remote application server via the network in order to receive the payment information with respect to the employee from the payroll database .

The MFD can be communicated with the application server via a standard SSL Secure Sockets Layer encrypted connection in order to provide an adequate protection with respect to the identification card and the PIN number of the employee . The MFD further generates the paycheck based on the rendering instructions from the remote application server in order to provide enhanced payroll processing within the business environment. The paymaster system can be also operated in a failsafe mode by determining a fault condition such as paper jam out of toner or blemish in the MFD and a fault message can be transmitted to the application server in order to cancel the paycheck and credit the payment into the employee account.

Note that the GUI can be implemented utilizing a GUI such as for example the GUI depicted in herein and may be provided by a module such as for example module i.e. a software application . Note that in computing a GUI window is generally a visual area containing some type of user interface e.g. GUI . Such a window usually but not always possesses a rectangular shape and displays the output of and may allow input to one or more processes. Such windows are primarily associated with graphical displays where they can be manipulated with an input device such as for example the keypad or a touch screen of the multi function device depicted in . A GUI using windows as one of its main metaphors is often referred to as a windowing system.

The identification card having the bar code can be placed on the platen of the MFD in order to obtain the authentication data with respect to the employee upon providing the PIN number as depicted at block . illustrates a GUI representing a dialog box for placing the identification card on the platen of the MFD in accordance with the disclosed embodiments. The identification card can be placed on the platen of the MFD with the bar code facing down and a graphically displayed scan button can be activated in order to obtain the authentication data with respect to the employee . illustrates a GUI representing a dialog box for entering the PIN number in accordance with the disclosed embodiments. The paymaster application permits the employee to enter the PIN number via the keypad of the MFD upon scanning the identification card . The employee can further provide the PIN number and activate a graphically displayed enter button in order to confirm the PIN number entry in the MFD .

The paycheck can be thereafter rendered based on the rendering instructions from the remote application server as depicted at block . illustrates a GUI representing a dialog box for rendering the paycheck in the MFD in accordance with the disclosed embodiments. A confirmation can be provided upon receiving the paycheck in order to confirm the check payment in the MFD . Similarly the paycheck can be canceled and payment can be credited to the employee account when the user terminates the payment process in the MFD .

The authentication data can be transmitted to the application server in order to authenticate the barcode of the identification card as indicated by arrow . An error report a prompt for PIN number can be displayed at the user interface of the multi function device as indicated by arrow . The PIN number can be further transmitted to the remote server in order to obtain the payment information with respect to the employee as indicated by arrow . The PIN number can be verified utilizing the application server and an error report paycheck can be generated at the multi function device as indicated by arrow .

The system and method disclosed herein provides an improved application programming interface that permits the multi function device to provide specialized services above and beyond the standard copy scan print fax capabilities. The paymaster application effectively provides a cost effective and secured distribution of payrolls to remote office locations. Such an approach therefore effectively manages and controls employee information and eliminates the workload on payroll department in a wide range of business organizations.

It will be appreciated that variations of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be desirably combined into many other different systems or applications. Also that various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art which are also intended to be encompassed by the following claims.

