---

title: Modular ammunition restraint system for ambush protected vehicles
abstract: Flexible restraint devices (MARS units) are provided for holding ammunition and ammunition packaging containers, mounted through wall mounting rails onto the interior of an ambush protected vehicle, or the like.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08276795&OS=08276795&RS=08276795
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08276795
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100511
---
The inventions described herein may be made used or licensed by or for the U.S. Government for U.S. Government purposes.

There is a present need to resolve an ammunition stowage problem within the RG 31 Mine Resistant Ambush Protected MRAP vehicle and like scenarios. Stowage of ammunition within the ammunition s shipping and storage containers is extremely limited. MRAPs have a small stowage frame that is significantly undersized for the quantity of ammunition the war fighter requires. As such soldiers have resorted to a variety of improvised methods for securing additional ammunition within the vehicle. These methods have unfortunately proven to cause safety issues where soldiers have sustained injury as a result of vehicle roll over or explosive shock from hitting IEDs. Solutions are needed that could allow soldiers to easily and quickly secure ammunition containers safely within the available interior free space. The solution must be safe adaptable to not just the RG 31 but all MRAPs accommodate a broad range of container sizes and be easily attached within the vehicle by personnel in the more forward echelons. Ideally the solution should allow modularity to add restraint to individual containers.

This invention provides a modular ammunition restraint system MARS which could be used in an MRAP environment. This flexible bag concept addresses many of the shortcomings and offers benefits not currently available to the combatant. The mountable demountable MARS flexible bag provides a secure method for interior stowage can be easily accessed can be designed to be modular and can be easily mounted by field personnel. It will be seen that the MARS device will provide a method for attaching and securing ammunition containers to the interior of vehicles such as but not limited to MRAP vehicles such that said an ammunition container can be removed and or accessed quickly and with or without the aid of tools.

It is an object of the present invention to provide means for safely and conveniently stowing assorted ammunition and or assorted ammunition packaging containers within the confined space of a small armored combat vehicle.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a selectively expandable box like restraining device which can be easily mounted demounted on the interior walls of a small armored combat vehicle which can be used to safely stow assorted ammunition and or assorted ammunition packaging containers.

Yet another object of the present invention is to provide a modular system of multiple restraining devices any ones of which can be selectively used to safely stow assorted ammunition and or assorted ammunition packaging containers as desired in any or in all of such restraining devices.

Still another object of the present invention is to provide a modular system of multiple restraining devices any ones of which can be selectively and easily mounted on demounted from the interior walls of a small armored combat vehicle which devices can be used as desired to safely stow assorted ammunition and or assorted ammunition packaging containers.

These and other objects features and advantages of the invention will become more apparent in view of the within detailed descriptions of the invention and in light of the following drawings. It should be understood that the sizes and shapes of the different components in the figures may not be in exact proportion and are shown here for visual clarity and for purpose of explanation.

In flexible restraining device is made from any flexible material such as but not limited to fabric ballistic nylon Cordura plastic or rubber. Fabric or other suitable flexible material is further reinforced with other stiff material such as metal rubber foam or plastic sheet. Panels are assembled through the use of stitching using thread or other suitable methods for assembly. The edge of the flexible material may be reinforced with a hook and loop strip as part of hook and loop closure means . Stiffening material can either be made within sandwiched or added to either side of the flexible material. Restraint can be attached on reinforcing plate to attach the device to the wall of a vehicle e.g. by use of any suitable fastener such as but not limited to nut and bolt quick release ball type pins or any method for mechanical attachment. Such restraint would be adjustable to accommodate any size container rectangular container such as a PA108 M19A1 or a M2A1 or the like. Adjustment is by means of accordion style or other flexible fabric or solid material that is secured by webbing by means of hook and loop closure means having hook and loop and fastener on one of the faces of the flexible restraining device . Restraining device can be made to accommodate larger rectangular containers such as but not limited to an M548. Ammunition container is restrained from vertical travel by means of flexible webbing attached to a snap buckle D ring or other suitable means of engagement. Webbing is secured by stitching riveting ultrasonic welding or other suitable method for attachment onto the restraint device . The device is further prevented from sagging under load by means of the metal reinforcing plate by the hook and loop means by the webbing which is bent down the front face at a 90 degree angle so that it can be attached at snap buckle to the hook and loop means and also by a wire rope or by other suitable method for providing structural rigidity. A selected quantity of these MARS devices can be attached to the interior of a vehicle by means of a mounting rail attachment means . Attachment is made by using a suitable fastener not entirely shown to secure each MARS device individually to the mounting rail by means of a quick release type fastener such as but not limited to a quick release ball type pin or other suitable method for attachment with or without the aid of tools. The mounting rail can be made from metal or other suitable structural material such as composite plastic to facilitate the secure mounting of each MARS device. Mounting rail placement is by any method of securing the mounting rail to the vehicle s structure usually the interior over a broad dimensional range. The mounting rail may be sized in length to allow placement within different vehicles. The mounting rail may be attached by means of fasteners such as but not limited to bolts quick release ball type pins C clamps welding or other such method to secure the mounting rail to a select vehicle. shows reinforcing plate with mounting holes for attachment of the MARS device to the wall mounting rail attachment means . shows a top view of the MARS device and shows an illustration of a mounting rail .

While the invention may have been described with reference to certain embodiments numerous changes alterations and modifications to the described embodiments are possible without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined in the appended claims and equivalents thereof.

