---

title: Generating configurable subscription parameters
abstract: Implementations relate to accessing a set of usage history data associated with a user account operating a workload on a set of virtual machines in a default deployment, generating, by a hardware processor, a predictive workload associated with the user account in view of the set of usage history data associated with the user account, responsive to generating the predictive workload, identifying a set of available resources in a set of host clouds of virtual machines provided by a cloud provider over the first period of time, accessing a set of deployment criteria received from the cloud provider, and generating a set of subscription parameters in view of the predictive workload, the set of available resources, and the set of deployment criteria to migrate the predictive workload to the set of host clouds of virtual machines.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09442771&OS=09442771&RS=09442771
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 09442771
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101124
---
The invention relates generally to systems and methods for generating dynamically configurable subscription parameters for the temporary migration of predictive user workloads in a cloud network and more particularly to platforms and techniques for tracking a cloud operator s available overnight or other off peak resources and permitting the operator to selectively configure subscription terms to offer to one or more users to allow the user s workloads to be shifted to those underutilized cloud networks on a temporary or other short term basis.

The advent of cloud based computing architectures has opened new possibilities for the rapid and scalable deployment of virtual Web stores media outlets social networking sites and many other on line sites or services. In general a cloud based architecture deploys a set of hosted resources such as processors operating systems software and other components that can be combined together to form virtual machines. A user or customer can request the instantiation of a virtual machine or set of machines from those resources from a central server or cloud management system to perform intended tasks services or applications. For example a user may wish to set up and instantiate a virtual server from the cloud to create a storefront to market products or services on a temporary basis for instance to sell tickets to or merchandise for an upcoming sports or musical performance. The user can subscribe to the set of resources needed to build and run the set of instantiated virtual machines on a comparatively short term basis such as hours or days for their intended application.

Typically when a user utilizes a cloud the user must track the software applications executed in the cloud and or processes instantiated in the cloud. For example the user must track the cloud processes to ensure that the correct cloud processes have been instantiated that the cloud processes are functioning properly and or efficiently that the cloud is providing sufficient resources to the cloud processes and so forth. Due in part to the user s requirements and overall usage of the cloud the user may have many applications and or processes instantiated in a cloud at any given instant and the user s deployment of virtual machines software and other resources can change dynamically over time. In cases the user may also utilize multiple independent host clouds to support the user s cloud deployment. That user may further instantiate and use multiple applications or other software or services inside or across multiple of those cloud boundaries and those resources may be used or consumed by multiple or differing end user groups in those different cloud networks.

In terms of the management of user workloads in a twenty four hour cloud environment some cloud providers who operate or have access to cloud based networks hosted in diverse geographic regions may wish to provide their users with access to processing memory application and or other resources under advantageous terms during overnight or other off peak time periods on a temporary basis. That is cloud providers who maintain cloud based networks in a separate geographic areas such as the East coast of the U.S. and West coast of the U.S. may experience different utilization rates of their hosted resources at different times of day due to business hours daylight and evening hours and or other patterns or schedules. In periods of reduced cloud utilization the cloud provider may discover that underutilized resources are available during overnight or other off peak times creating an opportunity to offer various temporary migration pathways to their users for their ongoing workloads.

In terms of potential re hosting or re seating of those workloads existing cloud management platforms or other deployment tools do not afford a cloud operator to access and review their off peak available resources compare those available resources to the historical usage data of their corporate or other users or customers and selectively configure subscription terms for possible temporary hosting of those workloads in geographically remote or dispersed clouds. In cases the cloud provider may wish to place partial or full cloud support for a user s workload at a reduced off peak or temporary subscription rate. In cases the cloud provider may in addition or instead wish to offer different combinations of resources and or service level agreements SLAs for various resources or services such as to upgrade or downgrade processor bandwidth and or other commitments to the user at times that may be advantageous for the user the cloud provider or both.

It may accordingly be desirable to provide systems and methods for generating dynamically configurable subscription parameters for the temporary migration of predictive user workloads in a cloud network in which a centralized deployment tool is configured to access the usage history for a subscriber or customer of a cloud provider and assist in generating selective or dynamically generated subscription parameters to create temporary or short term workload migrations to alternative host clouds based in dispersed or separated geographic areas and or corresponding time zones.

Embodiments described herein can be implemented in or supported by a cloud network architecture. As used herein a cloud can comprise a collection of hardware software services and or resources that can be invoked to instantiate a virtual machine process or other resource for a limited or defined duration. As shown for example in the collection of resources supporting a cloud can at a hardware level comprise a set of resource servers configured to deliver computing components needed to instantiate a virtual machine process service or other resource. For example one group of resource servers in set of resource servers can host and serve an operating system and or components utilities or interfaces related to that operating system to deliver to a virtual target and instantiate that machine with an image of that operating system. Another group of servers in set of resource servers can accept requests to host computing cycles or processor time memory allocations communications ports bandwidth pipes or links and or other resources to supply a defined level of processing power or throughput for a virtual machine. A further group of resource servers in set of resource servers can host and serve applications or other software to load on an instantiation of a virtual machine such as an email client a browser application a messaging application or other applications software or services. Other types of resource servers can be used to support one or more clouds .

In embodiments the entire set of resource servers and or other hardware or software resources used to support one or more clouds along with the set of instantiated virtual machines can be managed by a cloud management system . The cloud management system can comprise a dedicated or centralized server and or other software hardware services and network tools that communicate via network such as the Internet or other public or private network with all servers in set of resource servers R to manage the cloud and its operation. To instantiate a new or updated set of virtual machines a user can transmit an instantiation request to the cloud management system for the particular type of virtual machine they wish to invoke for their intended application. A user can for instance make a request to instantiate a set of virtual machines configured for email messaging or other applications from the cloud . The virtual machines can be instantiated as virtual client machines virtual appliance machines consisting of special purpose or dedicated task machines as understood in the art and or as other virtual machines or entities. The request to invoke and instantiate the desired complement of virtual machines can be received and processed by the cloud management system which identifies the type of virtual machine process or other resource being requested in that platform s associated cloud. The cloud management system can then identify the collection of hardware software service and or other resources necessary to instantiate that complement of virtual machines or other resources. In embodiments the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources can for example and as noted comprise virtual transaction servers used to support Web storefronts Web pages and or other transaction sites.

In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify a variety of parameters defining the operation of the set of virtual machines to be invoked. The instantiation request for example can specify a defined period of time for which the instantiated collection of machines services or processes is needed. The period of time can be for example an hour a day a month or other interval of time. In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify the instantiation of a set of virtual machines or processes on a task basis rather than for a predetermined amount or interval of time. For instance a user could request a set of virtual provisioning servers and other resources until a target software update is completed on a population of corporate or other machines. The user s instantiation request can in further regards specify other parameters that define the configuration and operation of the set of virtual machines or other instantiated resources. For example the request can specify a specific minimum or maximum amount of processing power or input output I O throughput that the user wishes to be available to each instance of the virtual machine or other resource. In embodiments the requesting user can for instance specify a service level agreement SLA acceptable for their desired set of applications or services. Other parameters and settings can be used to instantiate and operate a set of virtual machines software and other resources in the host clouds. One skilled in the art will realize that the user s request can likewise include combinations of the foregoing exemplary parameters and others. It may be noted that user herein can include a network level user or subscriber to cloud based networks such as a corporation government entity educational institution and or other entity including individual users and groups of users.

When the request to instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources has been received and the necessary resources to build those machines or resources have been identified the cloud management system can communicate with one or more set of resource servers to locate resources to supply the required components. Generally the cloud management system can select servers from the diverse set of resource servers to assemble the various components needed to build the requested set of virtual machines services or other resources. It may be noted that in some embodiments permanent storage such as optical storage or hard disk arrays may or may not be included or located within the set of resource servers available to the cloud management system since the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources may be intended to operate on a purely transient or temporary basis. In embodiments other hardware software or other resources not strictly located or hosted in one or more clouds can be accessed and leveraged as needed. For example other software or services that are provided outside of one or more clouds acting as hosts and are instead hosted by third parties outside the boundaries of those clouds can be invoked by in cloud virtual machines or users. For further example other non cloud hardware and or storage services can be utilized as an extension to the one or more clouds acting as hosts or native clouds for instance on an on demand subscribed or event triggered basis.

With the resource requirements identified for building a network of virtual machines the cloud management system can extract and build the set of virtual machines or other resources on a dynamic on demand basis. For example one set of resource servers may respond to an instantiation request for a given quantity of processor cycles with an offer to deliver that computational power immediately and guaranteed for the next hour or day. A further set of resource servers can offer to immediately supply communication bandwidth for example on a guaranteed minimum or best efforts basis for instance over a defined window of time. In other embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources can be built on a batch basis or at a particular future time. For example a set of resource servers may respond to a request for instantiation of virtual machines at a programmed time with an offer to deliver the specified quantity of processor cycles within a specific amount of time such as the next 12 hours. Other timing and resource configurations are possible.

After interrogating and receiving resource commitments from the set of resource servers the cloud management system can select a group of servers in the set of resource servers that match or best match the instantiation request for each component needed to build the user s requested virtual machine service or other resource. The cloud management system for the one or more clouds acting as the destination for the virtual machines can then coordinate the integration of the identified group of servers from the set of resource servers to build and launch the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. The cloud management system can track the identified group of servers selected from the set of resource servers or other distributed resources that are dynamically or temporarily combined to produce and manage the requested virtual machine population services or other cloud based resources.

In embodiments the cloud management system can generate a resource aggregation table or other record that identifies the various selected sets of resource servers in set of resource servers that will be used to supply the components of the set of instantiated virtual machines services or processes. The selected sets of resource servers can be identified by unique identifiers such as for instance Internet protocol IP addresses or other addresses. In aspects different sets of servers in set of resource servers can be selected to deliver different resources to different users and or for different applications. The cloud management system can register the finalized group of servers in the set resource servers contributing to or otherwise supporting the set of instantiated machines services or processes.

The cloud management system can then set up and launch the initiation process to instantiate the virtual machines processes services and or other resources to be hosted and delivered from the one or more clouds . The cloud management system can for instance transmit an instantiation command or instruction to the registered group of servers in the set of resource servers . The cloud management system can receive a confirmation message back from each registered server in set of resource servers indicating a status or state regarding the provisioning of their respective resources. Various registered resource servers may confirm for example the availability of a dedicated amount of processor cycles amounts of electronic memory communications bandwidth services and or applications or other software prepared to be served and delivered.

As shown for example in after coordination of the sources and configuration of resources including the hardware layer selected software and or other resources the cloud management system can then instantiate a set of virtual machines and or other appliances services processes and or entities based on the resources supplied by servers within set of resource servers registered to support the one or more clouds in a multiple cloud network . According to aspects cloud management system can access or interact with a virtualization module platform or service to instantiate and operate set of virtual machines such as the kernel based virtualization manager KVM available from Red Hat Inc. of Raleigh N.C. or others. In embodiments the cloud management system can instantiate a given number for example 10 500 1000 20 000 or other numbers or instances of virtual machines to populate one or more clouds and be made available to users of that cloud or clouds. In aspects users may access the one or more clouds via the Internet or other public or private networks. Each virtual machine can be assigned an instantiated machine ID that can be stored in the resource aggregation table or other record or image of the instantiated virtual machine population. Additionally the cloud management system can store data related to the duration of the existence or operation of each operating virtual machine as well as the collection of resources utilized by the overall set of instantiated virtual machines .

In embodiments the cloud management system can further store track and manage each user s identity and associated set of rights or entitlements to software hardware and other resources. Each user that operates a virtual machine or service in the set of virtual machines in the cloud can have specific rights and resources assigned and made available to them with associated access rights and security provisions. The cloud management system can track and configure specific actions that each user can perform such as the ability to provision a set of virtual machines with software applications or other resources configure a set of virtual machines to desired specifications submit jobs to the set of virtual machines or other host manage other users of the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources and or other privileges entitlements or actions. The cloud management system associated with the virtual machine s of each user can further generate records of the usage of instantiated virtual machines to permit tracking billing and auditing of the resources and services consumed by the user or set of users. In aspects of the present teachings the tracking of usage activity for one or more user including network level user and or end user can be abstracted from any one cloud to which that user is registered and made available from an external or independent usage tracking service capable of tracking software and other usage across an arbitrary collection of clouds as described herein. In embodiments the cloud management system of an associated cloud can for example meter the usage and or duration of the set of instantiated virtual machines to generate subscription and or billing records for a user that has launched those machines. In aspects tracking records can in addition or instead be generated by an internal service operating within a given cloud. Other subscription billing entitlement and or value arrangements are possible.

The cloud management system can configure each virtual machine in set of instantiated virtual machines to be made available to users via one or more networks such as the Internet or other public or private networks. Those users can for instance access set of instantiated virtual machines via a browser interface via an application server such as a Java server via an application programming interface API and or other interface or mechanism. Each instantiated virtual machine in set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with its associated cloud management system and the registered servers in set of resource servers via a standard Web application programming interface API or via other calls protocols and or interfaces. The set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with each other as well as other sites servers locations and resources available via the Internet or other public or private networks whether within a given cloud in one or more clouds or between those or other clouds.

It may be noted that while a browser interface or other front end can be used to view and operate the set of instantiated virtual machines from a client or terminal the processing memory communications storage and other hardware as well as software resources required to be combined to build the virtual machines or other resources are all hosted remotely in the one or more clouds . In embodiments the set of virtual machines or other services machines or resources may not depend in any degree on or require the user s own on premise hardware or other resources. In embodiments a user can therefore request and instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources on a purely off premise basis for instance to build and launch a virtual storefront messaging site and or any other application. Likewise one or more clouds can also be formed in whole or part from resources hosted or maintained by the users of those clouds themselves.

Because the cloud management system in one regard specifies builds operates and manages the set of instantiated virtual machines on a logical or virtual level the user can request and receive different sets of virtual machines and other resources on a real time or near real time basis without a need to specify install or configure any particular hardware. The user s set of instantiated virtual machines processes services and or other resources can in one regard therefore be scaled up or down immediately or virtually immediately on an on demand basis if desired. In embodiments the set of resource servers that are accessed by the cloud management system to support the set of instantiated virtual machines or processes can change or be substituted over time. The type and operating characteristics of the set of instantiated virtual machines can nevertheless remain constant or virtually constant since instances are assembled from a collection of abstracted resources that can be selected and maintained from diverse sources based on uniform specifications. Conversely the users of the set of instantiated virtual machines can also change or update the resource or operational specifications of those machines at any time. The cloud management system and or other logic can then adapt the allocated resources for that population of virtual machines or other entities on a dynamic basis.

In terms of network management of the set of instantiate virtual machines that have been successfully configured and instantiated the one or more cloud management systems associated with those machines can perform various network management tasks including security maintenance and metering for billing or subscription purposes. The cloud management system of one or more clouds can for example install initiate suspend or terminate instances of applications or appliances on individual machines. The cloud management system can similarly monitor one or more operating virtual machines to detect any virus or other rogue process on individual machines and for instance terminate an application identified as infected or a virtual machine detected to have entered a fault state. The cloud management system can likewise manage the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources on a network wide or other collective basis for instance to push the delivery a software upgrade to all active virtual machines or subsets of machines. Other network management processes can be carried out by cloud management system and or other associated logic.

In embodiments more than one set of virtual machines can be instantiated in a given cloud at the same time at overlapping times and or at successive times or intervals. The cloud management system can in such implementations build launch and manage multiple sets of virtual machines as part of the set of instantiated virtual machines based on the same or different underlying set of resource servers with populations of different virtual machines such as may be requested by the same or different users. The cloud management system can institute and enforce security protocols in one or more clouds hosting one or more sets of virtual machines. Each of the individual sets or subsets of virtual machines in the set of instantiated virtual machines can be hosted in a respective partition or sub cloud of the resources of the main cloud . The cloud management system of one or more clouds can for example deploy services specific to isolated or defined sub clouds or isolate individual workloads processes within the cloud to a specific sub cloud or other sub domain or partition of the one or more clouds acting as host. The subdivision of one or more clouds into distinct transient sub clouds sub components or other subsets which have assured security and isolation features can assist in establishing a multiple user or multi tenant cloud arrangement. In a multiple user scenario each of the multiple users can use the cloud platform as a common utility while retaining the assurance that their information is secure from other users of the same one or more clouds . In further embodiments sub clouds can nevertheless be configured to share resources if desired.

In embodiments and as also shown in the set of instantiated virtual machines generated in a first cloud in one or more clouds can also interact with a set of instantiated virtual machines services and or processes generated in a second third or further cloud in one or more clouds comprising a multiple cloud network . The cloud management system of a first cloud of one or more clouds can interface with the cloud management system of a second third or further cloud of one or more clouds to coordinate those domains and operate the clouds and or virtual machines services and or processes on a combined basis. The cloud management system of a given cloud on one or more clouds can in aspects track and manage individual virtual machines or other resources instantiated in that cloud as well as the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources in other clouds.

In the foregoing and other embodiments the user making an instantiation request or otherwise accessing or utilizing the cloud network can be a person customer subscriber administrator corporation organization government and or other entity. In embodiments the user can be or include another virtual machine application service and or process. In further embodiments multiple users or entities can share the use of a set of virtual machines or other resources.

Aspects of the present teachings relate to platforms and techniques in which a centralized or distributed deployment engine and or other logic can track and manage the migration of user workloads to underutilized clouds in different geographic zones and or to host clouds which are underutilized or available for other reasons. shows an illustrative network configuration in which systems and methods for generating dynamically configurable subscription parameters for the temporary migration of predictive user workloads in a cloud network can be implemented according to various embodiments. In embodiments as shown the operator or provider of a set of host clouds can track deploy and manage user workloads that are subscribed to the set of host clouds including a set of local resources such as processor memory storage communications operating system application and or other resources based located and or hosted in the respective clouds of the set of host clouds . It may be noted that in various aspects a workload can consist of a set of executed or executing processing computation storage communication and or other other tasks carried out under control of a programmed automatic and or other work flow or flows. In aspects as shown the operator or provider of the set of host clouds can access an administrative console such as a desktop computer or workstation to monitor and manage the set of host clouds and user deployments to the set of host clouds . In aspects the provider or operator of the set of host clouds can use the administrative console and or other access sites ports and or services to access and or initiate a deployment engine hosted in cloud management system for the set of host clouds to initiate and manage the scheduling and configuration of off peak and or other temporary or short term deployments of a user s workloads to the set of host clouds .

In aspects as shown the subject user or users can operate a default deployment illustrative shown as comprising a user premise such as a corporate or other local area network LAN including servers clients and storage resources as well as at least one original cloud which can comprise a cloud based network in which a user maintains a comparatively long term subscription such as for virtual machine software and or other resources. The default deployment for the user can comprise other types combinations and or configurations of hardware based and or cloud based networks and resources. In aspects the user s can access and or manage the default deployment via a client and or other channel machine site and or service. In aspects and as also shown in one or more resource providers can communicate or interact with the default deployment client administrative console set of host clouds and or other locations or resources. The one or more resource providers can include independent software vendors ISVs such as operator system and or application vendors who offer various software entitlements for subscription to users for instance on a periodic on demand and or other basis.

In aspects the deployment engine can access update store and track a set of usage history data that reflects the consumption by the user of their subscribed resources in the default deployment of the user and or of the set of local resources which the user may temporarily consume when operating workloads in the set of host clouds on an off peak or temporary basis as described herein. In aspects the set of usage history data can reflect daily weekly monthly and or other recurring patterns in the user s consumption of resources for instance based on business or commercial patterns or schedules that affect the user s demands for computing resources. Thus for instance a retail user may have a set of usage history data which reflects a high degree of consumption of processor and communications bandwidth during retail hours such as 10 00 a.m. to 9 00 p.m. reflecting the operation of a large number of point of sale POS terminals while retail outlets are open and transacting business. The set of usage history data for the same user may reflect a lower amount of processor and communications bandwidth consumption after close of scheduled retail hours followed by an increase in database and or storage consumption from for instance 12 00 a.m. to 6 00 a.m. as the enterprise applications of that user perform inventory and other adjustments for the following business day. Other increases decreases adjustments and or other patterns for the consumption of resources can be reflected in the set of usage history data . In aspects the set of usage history data maintained by one provider or operator of the set of host clouds and or other networks can incorporate resource consumption and workloads from more than one user.

According to regards the deployment engine and or other logic can analyze the set of usage history data to develop or generate a set of predictive workloads for a subject user. The set of predictive workloads can reflect an expected set of consumption rates for one or more periods or intervals of time for that user based on the historical trend or patterns demonstrated in the set of usage history data for those resources. The set of predictive workloads can in regards be generated by taking the average consumption rates for one or more resources over daily weekly and or other intervals so that for instance a retail user as noted may be assigned a set of predictive workloads including a minimum of 30 000 MIPs millions of instructions per second per hour of processing throughput for the period of 10 00 a.m. to 9 00 p.m. along with a minimum of 2 000 instances of an operating system followed by a minimum storage requirement of 300 Terabytes TB from 12 00 a.m. to 6 00 a.m. along with 400 instances of a database application. Other time periods resources and or consumption rates can be generated or identified in the set of predictive workloads . After generation of the set of predictive workloads the deployment engine can examine the set of local resources available in the set of host clouds over the same time periods to determine whether any one or more host cloud in the set of host clouds can host or absorb the user s workloads on an overnight and or other temporary or short term basis. In aspects the provider or operator of the set of host clouds can input or specify and set of deployment criteria indicating or filtering those resources in the set of local resources they may wish to offer or provide to the subject user in the form of a set of dynamically generated subscription parameters under which the user can temporarily deploy or migrate their workloads to the set of host clouds .

More particularly and as for instance shown in the set of host clouds can in instances be based located and or hosted in a collection of geographically separate or dispersed areas such as the U.S. East coast the U.S. West coast a central Europe site and or other locations or areas. In aspects different cloud based networks in the set of host clouds can for instance be located in different time zones such as different or diverse time zones established in the universal coordinated time UCT and or other timekeeping systems. Each geographically dispersed cloud in the set of host clouds can have a different set of local resources which can for each cloud comprise a set of available resources and a set of occupied resources reflecting local processor memory software and or other resources that may be available for subscription and use or not available for subscription or use due for example to use by other users maintenance operations and so forth. In aspects the deployment engine can examine the set of available resources for the individual clouds in the set of host clouds determine those clouds having set of available resources matching or satisfying the set of predictive workloads for a user and identify that cloud or clouds as a potential short term or temporary for the set of predictive workloads over the corresponding overnight or other set of time periods . With the candidate host clouds identified the deployment engine can apply the set of deployment criteria which the provider or operator of the set of host clouds wishes to apply such as for instance identify those host clouds that permit a subscription to a minimum processor throughput of 40 000 MIPs for at least 30 less than the user s subscription rates in their default deployment. Other criteria can be used. The deployment engine can apply the set of deployment criteria to generate the set of dynamically generated subscription parameters to present or deliver to the user for possible overnight and or other time varying or temporary use. In aspects the user can configure their subscription with the provider or operator of the set of host clouds and or with the one or more resource providers to automatically accept the set of dynamically generated subscription parameters for off peak or other deployment of their workloads. In aspects the deployment engine can notify the user and wait for user selection or confirmation of acceptance of the set of dynamically generated subscription parameters before moving the user s workloads to the set of host clouds under terms or conditions identified in the set of dynamically generated subscription parameters . It may be noted that in regards the set of dynamically generated subscription parameters can reflect dynamic or time varying terms conditions or criteria including subscription costs and service level agreements SLAs based on changing conditions in the set of host clouds the default deployment and or other operating conditions or related data. In aspects the provider or operator of the set of host clouds the one or more resource providers and or other entities can specify default criteria in the set of deployment criteria to automatically generate the lowest possible subscription costs to the user for temporarily migrating their set of predictive workloads but can also or instead as noted specify minimum or maximum resource commitment levels different resource availability in the set of time periods and or other criteria filters thresholds constraints or conditions. In aspects the set of dynamically generated subscription parameters can accordingly be updated on a regular irregular even triggered and or other basis such as every hour day week month and or other period. In further aspects the set of dynamically generated subscription parameters can accordingly specify or offer different subscription costs and or other conditions for different days of the week and or differing or varying in other intervals of the set of time periods depending on changing conditions in the set of host clouds and or other factors.

In terms of the capture and management of the set of usage history data and the correlation and analysis of the set of local resources hosted in the set of host clouds to potentially host the workloads of a user reflected in the set of usage history data illustrates data structures and or encoding that can be used to record the resources available to the cloud provider of set of host clouds to offer or deploy for a subject end user over different periods of time. In aspects as shown the deployment engine and or other logic can capture and store a time varying host resource matrix in which the set of available resources and the set of occupied resources of the set of host clouds can be reflected for set of time periods . In aspects the set of time periods can comprise a division of the hours of a day into different intervals. In aspects the different intervals of set of time periods can correspond to different periods in a business day and or can reflect different patterns or schedules. In aspects and as merely illustratively shown the set of time periods can reflect a division of the times of day into three periods such as midnight to 8 00 a.m. 8 00 a.m. to 4 00 p.m. and 4 00 p.m. to midnight. Other times intervals and or periods can be used as well as different numbers of periods. In aspects the set of time periods can be divided into equal intervals or periods unequal intervals or periods and or combinations of both.

According to aspects the time varying host resource matrix can reflect the set of occupied resources of one or more host clouds in the set of host clouds over different intervals or periods in the set of time periods . In aspects resources such as processor memory operating system instances and or others can be recorded as occupied or unavailable due to various events or conditions such as the reservation of those resources for other users or entities subscribing to them in the applicable time period the removal of those resources for maintenance or upgrade purposes and or other reasons. The set of local resources in the set of host clouds which are unreserved or unused can be recorded in the host resource matrix as part of the set of available resources and therefore available to be offered to the customer s or other user s of the set of host clouds from the cloud operator of the set of host clouds . In aspects the host resource matrix can be updated on an hourly daily and or other basis or schedule to reflect newly available and or newly unavailable resources in the set of local resources from which the operator of the set of host clouds wishes to offer to host the set of predictive workloads for the subject user or other entity. In aspects as described herein the deployment engine and or other logic can analyze the host resource matrix using the set of deployment criteria the set of usage history data and or other data filters and or logic to generate the set of dynamically generated subscription parameters to permit migration or deployment of the set of predictive workloads and or other user workloads or consumption requirements to the set of host clouds on a geographically staggered and or otherwise managed basis.

In the deployment engine and or other logic can access and or identify the set of occupied resources and determine a set of available resources located in the set of host clouds for the desired or relevant time periods that correspond to the set of predictive workloads for the subject user. Thus in aspects the deployment engine and or other logic can determine or identify those clouds in the set of host clouds which have enough available processing throughput to service the aforementioned illustrative bank user who wishes to perform account reconciliation operations from 10 00 p.m. to 2 00 a.m. each evening each weekday evening or at other times or intervals. Resource matching and or other analysis can be performed for other resources and or combinations of resources. In the deployment engine and or other logic can access and or receive the set of deployment criteria from the provider or operator of the set of host clouds and or from other sources. In aspects the set of deployment criteria can comprise a selection input and or other identification of the subscription criteria and or other filters or factors which the provider of the set of host clouds and or other user wishes to be satisfied weighted maximized optimized and or selected for packaging or presentation to the subject user. For instance the set of deployment criteria can be or include a specification of cost or cost variables for overnight and or other temporary deployment to the set of host clouds during a defined set of time periods . For instance the provider of the set of host clouds and or other entity can specify that they wish to analyze potential costs schedules which will afford the subject user at least a net 15 cost reduction for shifting their workloads and corresponding consumption of cloud resources to the of host clouds on an overnight or other basis. In aspects the set of deployment criteria can specify other parameters or criteria in addition to and or instead of subscription or other cost factors such as for example to specify that they wish to analyze potential cost schedules which will afford the subject user at least a 10 reduction for shifting their workloads to the set of host clouds on an overnight or other basis while maintaining a service level agreement SLA of at least 75 of the service level agreement SLA e.g. for processor memory storage operating system and or application instances provided by the user s default deployment . Other criteria or parameters can be used.

In the deployment engine and or other logic can generate a set of dynamically generated subscription parameters based on the set of deployment criteria the set of predictive workloads the set of available resources and or other data. In the deployment engine and or other logic can receive a selection and or confirmation of one or more of the set of dynamically generated subscription parameters from the provider of the set of host clouds indicating that provider wishes to select offer and or implement those potential subscription terms to the subject user. In the deployment engine and or other logic or entity such as the cloud management system and or the provider of the set of host clouds can transmit the set of dynamically generated subscription parameters to and or for the subject user to initiate deployment of the user s default deployment and or related workloads or portions thereof to the set of host clouds . In aspects the deployment can be for one or more defined period in the set of time periods such as from a first period from 6 00 p.m. to 12 00 midnight a second period from 12 00 midnight to 6 00 a.m. and or other periods times or intervals. In the deployment engine and or other logic can update the sat of occupied resources the set of usage history data and or other data based on the user s deployment of their workloads to the set of host clouds on the selected or configured overnight temporary and or other basis.

In the deployment engine and or other logic can update the set of predictive workloads as appropriate. For instance the deployment engine and or other logic can update the set of predictive workloads based on updates to the set of usage history data updates to the user s default deployment updates from the results of deployment to the set of host clouds on an overnight temporary and or other basis and or based on other data or based on other events. In the deployment engine and or other logic can restore the user s workloads to the user premise the original cloud hosts of that user s workloads and or other networks components or resources of the default deployment as appropriate. In as understood by persons skilled in the art processing can repeat return to a prior processing point jump to a further processing point or end.

The foregoing description is illustrative and variations in configuration and implementation may occur to persons skilled in the art. For example while embodiments have been described in which the cloud management system for a particular cloud resides in a single server or platform in embodiments the cloud management system and associated logic can be distributed among multiple servers services or systems. Similarly while embodiments have been described in which one group of servers within a set of resource servers can provide one component to build a requested set of virtual machines in embodiments one group of resource servers can deliver multiple components to populate the requested set of instantiated virtual machines and or other machines entities services or resources. For further example while embodiments have been described in which user workloads can be temporarily deployed to one set of host clouds in aspects the deployment engine and related resources can track and make available multiple sets of host clouds for instance in staggered and or overlapping geographic areas to the user for their off peak or other workloads. Other resources described as singular or integrated can in embodiments be plural or distributed and resources described as multiple or distributed can in embodiments be combined. The scope of the invention is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims.

