---

title: Dynamic support apparatus and system
abstract: A dynamic support apparatus having a frame, a dynamic interface, a temperature control mechanism, and a control system. The dynamic interface is capable of changing its geometry and is disposed on the top surface of the frame. The control system is operably connected to the dynamic interface and controls the changing geometry of the dynamic interface. There is also a temperature control mechanism disposed on the top surface of the frame for maintaining a comfortable temperature and moisture environment between the apparatus and the user's body.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08074559&OS=08074559&RS=08074559
owner: DEKA Products Limited Partnership
number: 08074559
owner_city: Manchester
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100216
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 026 971 filed Feb. 6 2008 which claims priority from U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 899 835 filed Feb. 6 2007 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. This application also claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 168 793 filed Apr. 13 2009 which is also hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Contract Number W911NF 09 C 0035 awarded by the U.S. Army RDECOM ACQ CTR. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to support apparatuses and more specifically to dynamic support apparatuses.

This support apparatus may be used for upper limb and lower limb prosthetic devices or any device with interaction with the body but for exemplary purposes the present apparatus will be described in the context of prostheses for upper limb amputees.

Accordingly there is a need for a dynamic support apparatus that accommodates users needs in the interaction with the user. A device that can in addition to other features include changing geometry in response to residuum morphing to maintain a secure comfortable fit with the user s body and or maintain a comfortable temperature and moisture environment between the support apparatus and the user s body is desired.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention the dynamic support apparatus includes a frame a dynamic interface capable of changing its geometry and a control system. The dynamic interface is disposed on a surface of the frame and has at least one actuator. The control system is operably connected to the dynamic interface by at least one connector.

In accordance with another aspect of the invention the at least one actuator is a bladder capable of changing geometry when filled with a gas or a liquid. The bladder is capable of changing geometry in a specific direction. In accordance with another aspect of the present invention the control system is a pneumatic system. A manifold may control the distribution of air to the at least one bladder.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention at least one sensor provides information on the stability and fit of the support apparatus to the control system. In accordance with a further aspect of the present invention the at least one sensor is a pressure transducer. In accordance with another aspect of the present invention the control system maintains a constant pressure measured by the pressure transducer. In accordance with a further aspect of the present invention the control system actuates a change in geometry of the dynamic interface based on the information provided by the at least one sensor.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention the at least one actuator and the at least one connector are molded inside the dynamic interface. In accordance with a further aspect of the present invention the at least one actuator and the at least one connector are integrally molded as part of the dynamic interface.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention the frame has an opening to allow expansion of the dynamic support apparatus. In a further aspect of the present invention the dynamic support has a securing mechanism to preclude expansion thereof.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention the dynamic support apparatus includes a frame a dynamic interface capable of changing its geometry a control system and a temperature control mechanism. The dynamic interface is disposed on the top surface of the frame and has at least one actuator. The control system is operably connected to the dynamic interface to control the changing geometry of the dynamic interface. The temperature control mechanism is disposed on the top surface of the frame for maintaining a comfortable temperature and moisture environment between the apparatus and the user s body. In accordance with a further aspect of the present invention the temperature control mechanism has at least one aperture formed within the frame. In accordance with another aspect of the present invention the temperature control mechanism has at least one duct included in the dynamic interface. In accordance with a further aspect of the present invention the temperature control mechanism has at least one orifice formed within the dynamic interface. In accordance with a further aspect of the present invention the temperature control mechanism has at least one temperature sensor.

In another aspect the present invention relates to a method of fabricating a dynamic interface of a dynamic support apparatus. The method comprises scanning a contour of a residuum to define an outline of an interface between the frame and the residuum. The method also comprises flattening the outline to form a template. The method further comprises machining the template into a mold. The method additionally comprises pouring a material for the dynamic interface to half a desired final thickness of the dynamic interface to create a first interface layer. The method also comprises placing actuators and connectors on the first interface layer. The method further comprises pouring the material for the dynamic interface to the desired final thickness of the dynamic interface to create a second interface layer. The method additionally comprises removing the resulting dynamic interface from the mold.

These aspects of the invention are not meant to be exclusive and other features aspects and advantages of the present invention will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art when read in conjunction with the appended claims and accompanying drawings.

For exemplary purposes the support apparatus will be described in the embodiment of a support apparatus for an upper limb trans humeral TH prosthesis as seen in such as the various prosthetic arms described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 027 141 filed Feb. 6 2008 and the U.S. Patent Application entitled ARM PROSTHETIC DEVICE filed on the same day as the present application and assigned to the same assignee each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Referring to the support apparatus which is utilized to removably adhere a prosthesis shown in to an upper limb residuum includes a frame a dynamic interface a control system and a temperature control mechanism . The frame may be made of high tech composite material such as carbon fiber.

In one embodiment the frame may be open and have a plurality of apertures . The structural members of the frame of this embodiment may be strategically placed to maximize the openness of the apparatus. Additionally the plurality of apertures may be the temperature control mechanism or function as a part of the temperature control mechanism.

The dynamic interface is disposed on a top surface of the frame closest to the upper limb residuum . The dynamic interface includes one or more actuators of various shapes and sizes that can be positioned either longitudinally and or circumferentially along the frame . The actuators are capable of changing their geometry and volume to secure the support apparatus to the residuum shown in and to account for morphing in the residuum .

As discussed above the support apparatus includes apertures to address both structural and temperature concerns. In addition the apertures may be designed to provide relief to the residuum shown in when the support apparatus is secured thereonto. For instance the apertures may provide space to allow the soft tissue of the residuum shown in to move away from the actuators thereby minimizing the amount of soft tissue between the load bearing surfaces of the support apparatus i.e. the actuators and the bone within the residuum shown in . Thus the apertures allow the soft tissue of the residuum to escape the areas of contact with the actuators thereby providing relief to the user and allowing the actuators to engage to bone within the residuum shown in .

Although described as apertures in some embodiments the support apparatus may additionally include at least one hollow cavity to provide another means for soft tissue escape. Thus as the actuators change their geometry to secure the support apparatus to the residuum shown in the soft tissue may be displaced into the hollow cavities during actuation to provide relief to the user.

Referring to the actuators may be bladders filled with air incompressible gas or incompressible liquid electroactive polymers EAPs or other types of actuators capable of changing their geometry. The dynamic interface also includes one or more connectors that connect the actuator s to the control system . The connector s may be fluid paths tubes wires or other similar channels.

Referring to in an embodiment having bladders for actuators and fluid path connectors for connectors the bladder will change geometry from an inactuated position shown in to the actuated position shown in when filled with air. Although the bladder is shown with a substantially uniform cross section in the same functionality may be obtained from the bladder having a non uniform cross section shown inactuated in and actuated in wherein the like numerals represent the like elements.

Referring to in a further embodiment the bladders may have bladder inlets to facilitate the connection of the fluid path connectors shown in . The bladder inlets may be located at any position on a periphery of each bladder to accommodate the desired fluid path connector routing configuration. Referring to an alternative embodiment positions the bladder inlet on a body of the bladder . In this embodiment as seen in the bladder inlet may pass through the frame to facilitate connection to the fluid path connectors .

In one embodiment the frame has an outer shell and an inner shell. Here the dynamic interface may be disposed between the outer shell and the inner shell. The inner shell may also have apertures to dictate the shape the actuator s . For example if the actuator s are bladders the inner shell apertures would dictate the shape of the bladder as it is inflated.

In another alternative embodiment referring to the dynamic interface is a single integrated layer disposed on the top surface of the frame . For example in an embodiment having bladders with fluid path connectors the bladders and fluid paths connectors are embedded into a single layer of material that is placed on top of the frame . The single integrated layer may be made of any material that allows for morphable chambers that can house or act as actuators of variable geometry. Such material may be silicon or rapid prototype molding material covered with a layer of silicon. The single integrated layer may also have nodules to attach to the frame having corresponding apertures for the nodules . In some embodiments the nodules are protrusions. The nodules do not have to be round bumps as depicted in one embodiment of the apparatus.

Referring to the bladders and fluid path connectors may be molded as a part of the single integrated layer such that the layer itself contains internal paths and compartments that serve as the fluid path connectors and bladders respectively. The molded single integrated layer may also have nodules to attach to a frame having corresponding apertures . As seen in the single integrated layer may be constructed by molding an actuation layer containing the necessary bladders and fluid path connectors and a connection layer containing nodules for attaching the single integrated layer to the frame. The actuation layer and the connection layer can then be bonded together to form the single integrated layer as seen in . The molded single integrated layer may be fabricated from any material that allows morphable chambers that can act as actuators of variable geometry. Such material may be silicon or rapid prototype molding material covered in a layer of silicon. Additionally bladders such as the bladders shown in or the bladders shown in with their unique characteristics may also be embedded in the molded single integration layer which may provide the dynamic interface with characteristics of both the bladders and the molded single integration layer for example to increase actuation while increasing stability.

The dynamic interface allows the support apparatus to morph and adapt to the function of the residuum . For example in an embodiment having actuators that are bladders filled with incompressible gas when the residuum morphs possibly due to tissue volume variation or loading the bladders either inflate or deflate to adjust to the residuum morphing and to maintain a secure and comfortable fit on the residuum .

The control system controls the changing geometry of the actuators . The control system may be hydraulic pneumatic electromechanical mechanical or any other actuator type mechanism that allows the actuators to change geometry. In our exemplary embodiment the bladders are controlled by a pneumatic system and connected to the system by the fluid paths connectors .

Referring now to one embodiment of the control system is shown as a manual system with a pressure bulb that is connected to the bladder by one or more fluid path connectors . When the user begins to feel instability or discomfort with the fit of the support apparatus the user squeezes the pressure bulb which can be set to either increase or decrease the air or liquid pressure in the bladder thus adjusting the fit of the support apparatus to the user s liking. If more than one bladder is used the user may be able to adjust the pressure in each individual bladder .

Still referring to in this embodiment the bladder is laser welded. By laser welding a thin sheet of bladder material to a substantially thicker sheet of bladder material or a stable base material such as an injection molded flexible plastic the actuation can be isolated to a desired direction. As seen in the bladder deforms in the direction of the thin sheet of material while the remainder of the bladder remains substantially unchanged.

Referring now to in an alternative embodiment of the control system the pressure bulb is connected to a plurality of bladders by one or more fluid path connectors through a manifold . The manifold may have pressure selectors allowing the user to adjust the pressure in the plurality of bladders by different amounts with the pressure bulb . The user may thus preset the pressure selectors to provide optimal adjustment of the support apparatus. Additionally the pressure selectors also allow the user to target one or more specific bladder s of the plurality of bladders such that pressure can be adjusted solely in the targeted bladders while pressure in the rest of the plurality of bladders remains unchanged. This targeting capability permits pinpoint adjustment based on localized instability or discomfort.

Referring now to the control system includes an electric pump in place of the pressure bulb for adjusting the pressure in the plurality of bladders. Pump control allows the user to either increase or decrease the pressure in the bladders.

Referring to an alternate embodiment incorporates the electric pump the pump control and the manifold into a control unit . The fluid path connectors are attached to manifold outlets allowing adjustment of each bladder using the pump control . The manifold may be located in an accessible location such as attached to the user s belt or attached to the support apparatus itself.

Referring now to an alternate embodiment integrates each bladder and its control system . In the embodiment shown in the control system is a pressure bulb . In the embodiment shown in the control system is an electric pump . In such an embodiment the patient would adjust the pressure of each bladder by actuating its integrated control system .

The control system may be an active control system that provides real time adjustments in each actuator to accommodate prosthetic load and user posture and to anticipate user needs. Referring back to with the exemplary embodiment having bladders as actuators the control unit may include an active control system for activating the inflation deflation of the bladders. The active control system may be in place of or in addition to the manual pump control . The active control system may have an input mechanism for gathering readings on the stability and fit of the support apparatus with the residuum .

In some embodiments the input mechanism includes sensors such as pressure transducers and feedback loops. The sensors may be placed on the inner shell of the frame on the actuator s on the connector s connected to the actuator s or in any other suitable location for providing information on the stability and fit of the support apparatus as should be obvious to those skilled in the art. Controlled by a computer the sensor s determine the pressure in the actuator s and with the feedback loops signals are sent to the control unit to either increase or decrease the actuator s pressure possibly by inflation or deflation thereby changing the volume of the actuator to exert the needed force to maintain the support apparatus s secure fit with the user s body. The computer for controlling the sensors is preferably integrated into the control unit of the control system . Referring to with the exemplary embodiment having bladders as actuators a pressure sensor may be placed on the bladder to provide fit information to the control unit through a sensor connector . In this embodiment if a loose fit is detected by pressure sensor i.e. the sensed pressure is low a signal is sent to the control unit to increase the pressure in the corresponding bladder until a high pressure is sensed and therefore a stable condition is achieved. In this embodiment the active control system adjusts the pressure of each actuator in response to the part of the morphing residuum in contact with that actuator. This embodiment does not necessarily maintain a constant pressure in each bladder nor does it necessarily maintain a total constant pressure against the residuum.

An alternative embodiment includes an active control system with sensors and feedback loops that maintain constant pressure in each actuator . For example in an embodiment having bladders the sensors and feedback loops may be placed on each bladder or on each fluid path of each bladder . The sensors may be programmed to take an initial pressure reading of a bladder . The sensors then take continuous pressure readings of the bladder comparing these readings to the initial pressure. As the bladder pressure changes the sensors and feedback loops send signals to the control unit which adjusts the pressure in the bladder to maintain the initial bladder pressure. Maintaining a constant pressure in the bladders can correspond to maintaining a constant fit between the support apparatus and the residuum.

Referring to the active control system may also include EMG electrodes for providing control input to the control unit . The EMG electrodes may be placed between the actuator s and the skin of the residuum on a separate layer or on each actuator . The EMG electrodes sense voluntary underlying muscle activity and can be used to control some function of the prosthesis. In a support apparatus having bladders the bladders control the downward pressure of the EMG electrodes on the skin of the residuum . This control of the downward force eliminates unintentional relative movement of the EMG electrodes which generates an artifact signal a common problem with EMG electrodes. As the residuum morphs or the patient puts loads on the residuum the pressure applied to each bladder by the residuum may vary which in turn may vary the EMG electrodes contact with the skin of the residuum . The pressure sensors sense this pressure differential and the control unit may adjust the pressure of the bladder s so as to put pressure back on the EMG electrodes . This pressure on the EMG electrodes pushes the EMG electrodes against the skin of the residuum maintaining constant contact and a secure fit between the residuum and the support apparatus.

The control unit may include a partially automatic control system for the actuator s with preset actuator pressures. The user has a control unit that can be programmed with preset numbers or modes that correspond to preset actuator pressures. These presets can be programmed by the patient while using the support apparatus or can be pre programmed. The preset pressures may be set to accommodate support apparatus fits for a resting mode a light load mode a high load mode a massage mode or other types of activity. Depending on the patient s activity the patient selects a number or mode on the control unit which automatically adjusts the fit and pressure of the actuator s to whatever pressure s was programmed to that number. The massage mode may be utilized to facilitate circulation in the residuum. For example the controller may turn off one actuator at a time to allow blood flow into the region of the turned off actuator . By cycling through the actuators one at a time blood flow in the residuum is assisted without loss of stability of the dynamic support apparatus .

The temperature control mechanism of the dynamic support apparatus may include the apertures of the support apparatus in . The apertures allow for cooling by ventilation which reduces moisture and heat between the support apparatus and the residuum . Additionally the temperature control mechanism may include ducted air flow over the skin of the residuum heat exchangers personal cooling systems such as those found in Sharper Image s Personal Cooling System ducted fans or integrating sports or outdoor recreation clothing designed for heat moisture management. The temperature control mechanism may be placed in a separate layer between the dynamic interface or top surface and the residuum integrated into the same layer as the dynamic interface or integrated into the top surface of the frame . An active control system similar to the system already described may also be used to control the temperature control mechanism so as to maintain a constant temperature through the use of temperature sensors between the residuum and the support apparatus .

Referring to the temperature control mechanism may include one or more duct s connected to a plurality of orifices and integrated into the dynamic interface . In this embodiment temperature control is accomplished by supplying air through the duct s and the plurality of orifices to impinge on the skin of the residuum.

While the exemplary embodiment described above relates to upper limb prosthesis for TH amputees the support apparatus can be used for transradial TR amputees and for shoulder disarticulation SD amputees. Referring now to one embodiment of a dynamic support apparatus for SD amputees includes a frame having actuators and connectors connected to one or more active straps such as McKibben artificial muscles. Each active strap contains at least one actuator and at least one strap connector for connecting the actuator to the control system. Similar to those embodiments already described each active strap may also contain sensors and feedback loops for providing fit information to the control system. The active straps are connected to the control system and control unit. Thus as pressure and tension on the active strap s change due to load variations on the residuum the sensors signal the control unit to adjust the pressure of the strap s s actuator s which in turn adjusts the tension and length of the strap. These adjustments ensure a secure fit against the user s body and ensure stability of the prosthesis. The active straps and strap connectors may be integrated with the dynamic interface such that one control system controls both the dynamic interface and the active straps simultaneously. As should be understood by those skilled in the art the strap connectors may alternatively be routed to a separate control unit specifically for the active straps .

Referring to in addition to controlling the tension and length of active straps by actuators each active strap may additionally contain a length adjuster which may be used to manually adjust the length and fit of each active strap .

Referring to in the exemplary embodiment having bladders for actuators and fluid path connectors for strap connectors the bladder is encased in a deformable strap material such as nylon webbing. The bladder is connected to the control system by the fluid path connector . The end of each active strap has an attachment mechanism for attaching the active strap to the frame. The active strap is in a preset condition in having a strap length and a preset bladder cross section.

Referring to the active strap is in an actuated condition having an actuated bladder cross section and an actuated strap length that is less than the preset strap length shown in . Accordingly when instability is detected in the support apparatus either by the control system or by the user pressure may be increased in the active strap causing the bladder to expand from the preset condition of to the actuated condition of . As pressure increases in the bladder the deformable strap material deforms decreasing the length of the active strap and increasing stability in the support apparatus.

Referring to the control system of each active strap may be an electric pump such that the pressure in each active strap may be adjusted independent of the other active straps and the dynamic interface. Referring to the control system of each active strap may alternatively be a pressure bulb such that the pressure in each active strap may be adjusted independent of the other active straps and the dynamic interface. Although shown as separate units in the control system may be integrated with the bladder similar to that shown in .

Unlike typical McKibben artificial muscles which are used in high pressure applications the active straps in the dynamic support apparatus are operated under low pressure conditions. Accordingly various configuration changes have been made to the inflation arrangement and strap characteristics of the active straps to increase performance and efficiency in low pressure conditions. The actuator length to strap length for the active strap is about two thirds the length seen in the prior art. This increases actuation with less pressure and makes the active strap and the support apparatus more responsive. Additionally when the actuator in active strap is a bladder it may be fabricated wider than the strap itself so that the bladder can be inflated causing the strap diameter to increase without putting energy into stretching the bladder itself. Bladders that are fabricated by laser welding such as the bladder shown in also provide for improved performance in low pressure conditions because they can be constructed to deform the active strap in specific shapes and locations rather than only circular deformation.

Referring to an additional embodiment of an active strap is shown. The active strap may include a flexible strap portion having a bladder attached thereto. The active strap is connected to the frame to secure the frame to the user s residuum . For example the active strap may secure a trans radial prosthetic support to the user s elbow. The bladder is operatively connected to the control system shown in through a fluid path connector . In operation the active strap secures the frame to the residuum with the flexible strap portion providing the active strap with strong tensile strength. The bladder of the active strap may then be actuated while the frame is secured to the residuum to generate a normal force on the residuum to alter the securing properties of the active strap . Thus the bladder allows for remote adjustment of the fit of the support apparatus shown in . The bladder also provides the active strap with a measure of compliance and may aid in anchoring the frame to the residuum i.e. to prevent sliding. Although the bladder is shown in a particular embodiment for exemplary purposes it should be understood that the bladder may be in the form of any of the various embodiments described herein. For example as seen in the bladder may include an accordion sidewall to allow for increased actuation.

Referring to the embodiment shown in attached to the support apparatus is a prosthetic interface for attaching a prosthesis not shown to the support apparatus . The prosthetic interface is fixedly attached to the support apparatus by attachment means which may be rivets bolts or any similar means of attachment. The prosthetic interface has a prosthetic mount for to which the prosthesis may be attached. The prosthetic mount preferably includes a standard coupling configuration to facilitate attachment of the prosthesis. Although shown as holes it should be understood that the standard coupling configuration could also be a bolt configuration that interfaces with corresponding holes on the prosthesis. The prosthetic interface should be rigid in construction such that it does not bend or flex when the attached prosthesis is used to lift a heavy object.

Referring to a method of fabricating the dynamic interface of the dynamic support apparatus may be a layer molding technique. For example for the SD prosthesis support apparatus such method may involve the steps of scanning the contour of a patient s residuum in an outline where the frame will sit on the residuum flattening the scanned contour so that it can be made into a template for a mold machining the flattened template into the mold pouring silicone or similar material in the mold to half the final thickness of the dynamic interface to create a first interface layer laying the actuator s and connector s on top of the first interface layer pouring silicon or similar material on top of the actuator s and connector s to a desired thickness of the dynamic interface to create a second interface layer removing the resulting dynamic interface from the mold and connecting the resulting dynamic interface to a control system not shown and a frame .

Although described with regard to the SD prosthesis support as seen in the dynamic interface fabricated by the layer molding technique described above can also be applied to other types of prosthesis support apparatuses by scanning the appropriate part of the residuum and attaching the resulting dynamic interface to the frame and control system.

An alternative method of fabricating a dynamic interface for example for a TH prosthesis support apparatus may involve the steps of scanning the contour of a patient s residuum to form an inner mold of the TH residuum forming the inner mold of the TH residuum coating the inner mold with an inner layer of liner made of material such as silicon or similar material scanning the inner mold to generate an outer mold forming an outer mold laying the actuator s and connector s on top of the inner layer of liner pouring an outer layer of silicon or similar material on top of the inner layer the actuator s and the connector s using the outer mold to form the outer layer of the dynamic interface and connecting the resulting dynamic interface to a control system and a frame .

Referring back to the frame may be capable of expanding or opening to facilitate donning and doffing the support apparatus. One or more securing mechanisms such as snaps or latches may be used to prevent expansion or opening of the frame while the support apparatus is being worn by the user.

Referring to in an alternative embodiment the support apparatus may be capable of expanding or opening parallel to its longitudinal axis to facilitate donning and doffing. An opening of the frame may run along only a portion of the length of the support apparatus or may run along the entire length of the support apparatus from the proximal to the distal end of the apparatus. The securing mechanism such as a circumferential straps may be used to prevent expansion or opening of the frame while the support apparatus is being worn by the user. In this embodiment the dynamic interface may be composed of multiple portions each being attached to a part of the frame .

Some embodiments may also include an exhaust system that is incorporated into the control system. The exhaust system may channel excess fluid resulting from the release of pressure in the actuators to one or more exhaust outlets. In the exemplary embodiment with air as the fluid the exhaust outlets may vent the air into the atmosphere. In other embodiments the exhaust outlets may channel the air into a reservoir from which the fluid can be drawn back into the system to increase pressure. These exhaust outlets may also be strategically positioned or ducted along the frame to channel flow over the surface of the residuum. This flow could aid convective cooling of the residuum.

The dynamic interface is able to change geometry to provide a fit with the residuum . The user may manually actuate the dynamic interface to increase stability as needed. The dynamic support apparatus may include a temperature control system to increase the comfort of the dynamic support apparatus. The frame may be capable of opening to assist the user in donning and doffing the dynamic support apparatus.

The control system may actively actuate the dynamic interface based on fit information provided by sensors. The control system may include preset modes such that the fit may be changed for each mode. The control system may include a massage mode for increasing blood circulation in the residuum.

Referring to in some embodiments the prosthesis not shown itself may send signals to the control unit of the active control system so that the control unit may adjust the dynamic interface of the support apparatus based on the current usage of the prosthesis not shown . For instance the prosthesis not shown may send load signals indicative of the loading of the prosthesis not shown . The load signals may be provided to the control unit by force sensors compliance sensors and or motors within the prosthesis not shown . The prosthesis not shown may also send function signals to the control unit indicative of a mode of operation of the prosthesis not shown and or of a current positioning of the prosthesis not shown . The load signals and the function signals may be transmitted to the control unit through a wired connection or wirelessly for example through Bluetooth radio or the like.

The load signals and the function signals allow the control system to actively alter the type and level of support provided to the prosthesis not shown by the support apparatus . For example the control unit may compensate for load signals indicating high loading of the prosthesis not shown by increasing the actuation of the actuators of the support apparatus to better secure the support apparatus to the residuum shown in . Similarly the control unit may compensate for load signals indicating low loading of the prosthesis not shown by decreasing the actuation of the actuators to loosen the interface between the support apparatus and the residuum shown in . Thus the control unit is able to provide increased support to the prosthesis not shown when necessary and to loosen the support to allow for improved blood circulation in the residuum shown in during lower loading conditions. The function signals may also provide improved control to the prosthetic support apparatus . For instance the function signals may indicate a current mode of operation of the prosthesis not shown which may allow the control unit to alter the support provided by the support apparatus to suit the operating mode. For example if the function signal indicates that the prosthesis not shown has entered a standby mode the control unit may decrease actuation of the actuators or enter a massage mode to increase blood circulation in the residuum shown in . Additionally the function signals may provide information to the control unit indicating a current position of the prosthesis not shown for example through position sensors such as potentiometers magnetic sensors Hall effect sensors and the like. Using these function signals the control unit may actuate specific actuators more than others to provide greater support in certain areas of the support apparatus based on the position of the prosthesis not shown . Thus the load signals and the function signals may provide for improved active control of the prosthetic support apparatus based on detected function or loads that the prosthesis not shown is imparting on the support apparatus so that the support apparatus may adjust appropriately.

In various embodiments the support apparatus may additionally include perfusion sensors in communication with the control unit to determine the amount of blood flowing in tissue of the residuum shown in underneath the areas of contact with the actuators . For example referring to in some embodiments the perfusion sensor may be a pulse oximeter for detecting whether or not the skin is adequately perfused. In other embodiments the perfusion sensor may be a blood volume pulse sensor for detecting blood flow within the residuum shown in . If the skin is not the control unit may decrease actuation of one or more of the actuators and enter a massage mode to increase blood circulation in the residuum shown in .

Referring to in some embodiments the support apparatus shown in may include bladders having a lateral stabilization system . The lateral stabilization system includes a base plate and a cover plate having the bladder disposed therebetween. The base plate may be fixedly secured to the frame of the support apparatus shown in . The base plate and the cover plate are pivotally connected to each other by a linkage which is preferably a four bar linkage as seen in . The linkage substantially prevents the cover plate from moving in the lateral direction L relative to the base plate while allowing the cover plate to pivot in the transverse direction T away from and back toward the base plate as seen in . The bladder may include an accordion sidewall to provide an increased actuation distance D that the cover plate may be actuated away from the base plate and the lateral stabilization system ensures that lateral stability is not lost as the bladder actuates to the increased actuation distance D.

The cover plate preferably includes a residuum contact surface that is contoured to improve user comfort for example by providing rounded corners that will not dig into the residuum shown in . In other embodiments the contact surface may be contoured to the shape of the user s residuum to increase comfort. Referring to the cover plate may also include one or more sensor cavities for accommodating one or more sensors for monitoring the fit of the support apparatus and or the condition of the residuum shown in . The sensors may be for example force sensors pressure sensors temperature sensors perfusion sensors or the like. Preferably the base plate and the cover plate are also formed to improve user comfort for example by being formed from a lightweight material such as an open cell foam.

Referring to the bladders having the lateral stabilization systems may be arranged around the support apparatus in a manner similar to those discussed above.

Referring to in operation the user may insert their residuum into the support apparatus in the transverse direction T while the bladders shown in having the lateral stabilization systems are in an inactuated state. Since the lateral stabilization system provides for the increased actuation distance D shown in when inactuated the cover plate may be completely out of contact with the residuum . Thus the user may insert their residuum easily without a mushrooming of the soft residuum tissue that may be caused by contact with the support apparatus . Then referring to the bladders may be actuated causing them to expand. As the bladders expand they push the cover plates away from the base plates . The linkage connecting each cover plate to each base plate pivots to allow the cover plate to move away from the base plate while maintaining lateral stability. The cover plates are actuated into contact with the residuum to secure the support apparatus to the residuum . To remove the support apparatus the bladders may simply be returned to their inactuated states as seen in and the residuum may be withdrawn from the support apparatus .

The lateral stabilization system is advantageous because in prevents unintentional removal of the residuum from the support apparatus for example due to slippage or the like. Specifically if the residuum begins to move in the transverse direction T while the bladders are actuated and in contact with the residuum the movement will create a camming effect pulling on the cover plate and causing the cover plate to pivot further away from the base plate . As the cover plate moves further from the base plate the contact force against the residuum is increased securing the support apparatus more tightly thereto. Thus the laterally stabilized bladders provide an improved securing interface when actuated yet also allow for ease of donning and doffing when inactuated as discussed above.

Referring to in some embodiments the lateral stabilization system may be provided with one or more resilient members connecting the cover plate to the base plate and applying a compressive force therebetween. For example the one or more resilient members may be elastic members spring members or the like. The one or more resilient members ensure that the cover plate pivots back into contact with the base plate when in an inactuated state.

Although described in connection with the exemplary embodiment it should be understood that various changes to the bladders and lateral stabilization system may be made. For example in some embodiments the bladder may be anchored directly to the support apparatus eliminating the need for the base plate . In this embodiment the linkage may be pivotally connected directly to the support apparatus . In some embodiments rather than the bladder with accordion sidewall two or more bladders without accordion sidewalls may be arranged between the cover plate and the base plate to provide the increased actuation distance D. In other embodiments the linkage may be telescopic as seen in rather than pivotal thereby providing stability in both the lateral and transverse directions. Additionally although each bar of the linkage is shown as being substantially the same length the lengths may be varied to alter the configuration of the cover plate relative to the base plate . For example rather than being parallel to the base plate the cover plate may instead be angled to one side in the lateral direction L or angled to the front or back in the transverse direction T.

Although the lateral stabilization system has been described as surround the bladder referring to in other embodiments the bladder may include an open cell foam structure disposed inside the bladder to create internal struts and connectors which are flat when the bladder is deflated. In operation the bladder is anchored to the base plate or frame . As the bladder inflates the bladder the structure of the foam or material inside the bladder provides the bladder with lateral stability. In some embodiments the open cell foam structure may be toroidal as seen in . In various other embodiments a honeycomb or multi tube structure may be introduced as seen in to provide greater lateral stability when the bladder is inflated.

In various embodiments bladder inflation may be accomplished by introducing carbon dioxide CO into the bladder rather than air. For example referring to the control system may include one or more COcartridges . The COcartridges are advantageous because they may quickly fill the bladders shown in . Additionally the CO2 cartridges are themselves refillable so they may simply be removed from the control system to be refilled or replaced. Inflation using the one or more COcartridges may also improve the temperature control mechanism shown in because the COmay decrease in temperature as it expands to fill the bladders shown in thereby cooling the user where the user is in contact with the bladders .

Depending upon the degree of amputation of the user of the prosthetic arm in some embodiments it may be desirable to couple some degree of movement of the user s arm with a shortened prosthetic arm for example a prosthetic arm that provides only wrist flexion and hand movement capabilities. Thus referring to a trans radial socket may be provided for trans radial amputees that are still able to pronate and supinate their residuum not shown . The trans radial socket includes a bracket body connected to a cup brace by two hinged brackets . The bracket body includes an outer cylinder portion attached to the hinged brackets and an inner tubular portion partially rotatably fixed within the outer cylinder portion and extending axially outward therefrom to a distall end . In operation the prosthetic arm not shown is mounted to the trans radial socket at the distal end of the inner tubular portion . The user may then insert their residuum into the inner tubular portion . The cup brace may then be slid along their upper arm behind the user s elbow. The hinged brackets allow the user to bend their elbow to move the bracket body . Additionally the user may pronate and or supinate their residuum to rotate the inner tubular portion relative to the outer cylinder portion which in turn causes the prosthetic arm mounted to the inner tubular portion to rotate. Thus the trans radial socket provides for a reduction in the size of the prosthetic arm by eliminating the need for a wrist rotator for users having natural rotation capability in their residuum. This reduction in the size of the prosthetic arm results in a corresponding reduction in weight of the prosthetic arm thereby improving user comfort. Additionally the trans radial socket eliminates the need for the prosthetic arm to provide wrist rotation thereby making the prosthetic arm easier for the user to control by reducing the number of joint movements for which the user must learn new control inputs. Additionally reducing the number of joint movements provided by the prosthetic device may also improve battery power usage and lead to extended battery life.

Referring to an embodiment of a dynamic support system is shown. In the dynamic support system the dynamic support apparatus is in communication with both the user s residuum and the prosthesis and is therefore able to vary its configuration as the state of the residuum and or the prosthesis changes. For instance as discussed above the dynamic support apparatus includes a variety of sensors for detecting the condition of the residuum such as temperature sensors and perfusion sensors shown in . Additionally as discussed above the dynamic support apparatus may also receive prosthesis load information and prosthesis function information shown in from the prosthesis . The dynamic support system also includes a variety of interface sensors such as pressure sensors shown in detecting the condition of the interface between the residuum and the dynamic support apparatus . Information from all of these various sensors and sources are used in the dynamic support system to alter the state of the dynamic interface thereby changing the fit of the dynamic support apparatus . The dynamic support system may also include interface stimulators to provide feedback to the user regarding the state of the dynamic interface . For instance the dynamic support system may use tactors to provide vibration or other tactile feedback to the user. Additionally the dynamic support system may also include a variety of passive elements for improving comfort and fit of the dynamic support apparatus and or for communicating information to the user. For instance the apertures provide passive temperature control and the contact between the dynamic support apparatus and the residuum acts as a passive loading interface stimulator. Thus the dynamic support system provides beneficial integration between the dynamic support apparatus the prosthesis supported by the dynamic support apparatus and the user.

The dynamic support apparatus is advantageous because it is able to compensate for shape changes of the residuum and or loading from a prosthetic device by actuating the actuators. Additionally when the actuators actuate compliant tissue surrounding the bone within the residuum is displaced thereby minimizing the amount of soft compliant tissue between the dynamic support apparatus and the bone within the residuum. This advantageously provides for a stronger interface between the dynamic support apparatus and the residuum. The dynamic support apparatus is also advantageous because various actuators may be actuated and unactuated at different times to improve blood flow within the residuum without losing stability of the dynamic support apparatus.

The dynamic support apparatus is also able to advantageously detect the pressure and or force provided by each actuator and to compensate for changes in the detected pressure and or force. Thus the dynamic support apparatus is able to self compensate for pressure and or force changes to provide increased securing forces and tighten the dynamic support apparatus only when necessary and to loosen the dynamic support apparatus when the prosthetic device is under lower load. This minimizes the perceived weight of the prosthetic device which may allow the user to adorn the prosthetic device and dynamic support apparatus for a greater time than with a conventional prosthesis.

Although the dynamic support apparatus is illustrated for use with an upper limb prosthesis the support apparatus is adaptable to other body appliances such as ski boots shoes backpacks lower limb prostheses braces worn around a body part or anything designed to be worn around a body part.

While the principles of the invention have been described herein it is to be understood by those skilled in the art that this description is made only by way of example and not as a limitation as to the scope of the invention. Other embodiments are contemplated within the scope of the present invention in addition to the exemplary embodiments shown and described herein. Modifications and substitutions by one of ordinary skill in the art are considered to be within the scope of the present invention.

