---

title: High speed piezoelectric optical system with tunable focal length
abstract: A varifocal optical system includes a substantially circular membrane deposited on a substrate, and a ring-shaped PZT thin film deposited on the outer portion of the circular membrane. The membrane may be a MEMS-micromachined membrane, made of thermal oxide, polysilicon, ZOand SO. The membrane is initially in a buckled state, and may function as a mirror or a lens. Application of an electric voltage between an inner and outer electrode on the piezoelectric thin film induces a lateral strain on the PZT thin film, thereby altering the curvature of the membrane, and thus its focal length. Focal length tuning speeds as high as 1 MHz have been demonstrated. Tuning ranges of several hundred microns have been attained. The varifocal optical system can be used in many applications that require rapid focal length tuning, such as optical switching, scanning confocal microscopy, and vibration compensation in optical storage disks.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08605374&OS=08605374&RS=08605374
owner: The Charles Stark Draper Laboratory, Inc.
number: 08605374
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101101
---
The application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 115 142 filed May 5 2008 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 293 823 filed Nov. 12 2002 which claims the benefit of U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 60 348 136 entitled Piezoelectric Deformable Varifocal Morror and filed Nov. 9 2001.

The present invention relates to optical systems and in particular relates to a high speed piezoelectrically actuated optical system with tunable focal length.

There is a growing demand for optical elements having tunable focal lengths including adaptive optics systems. For example adaptive optics technology is used in astronomy in order to overcome significant limitations in the image quality of telescopes caused by atmospheric turbulence. Also most optical systems have defects in construction or factors in their environment that prevent them from operating optimally. These defects can be continually measured and automatically corrected by adaptive optics systems which typically include deformable mirrors whose focal lengths can be changed.

At present methods and systems that are known in the art for actively changing the focal length of an optical system include at least the following three categories. The first category includes large scale deformable optics devices. In these devices the minor surface is composed of many pixels each of which has a curvature or angle of inclination that can be altered through an applied voltage to a bulk piezoelectric actuator. The thickness of the deformable portion of each pixel is relatively large and thus large forces are required and slow speeds are typical. The second category includes electrostatically actuated devices. These devices consist of large membranes suspended over an array of independently controlled electrodes. Voltages applied to these electrodes generate forces on the portion of the membrane in close proximity to the electrodes causing deflection of the membranes. The shape of the membrane and thus its curvature and focal length are determined by the cumulative affects of the electrostatic forces generated by the applied voltages. A third mechanism that provides adaptive focusing uses a lens that translates mechanically along the optical axis relative to other lenses in the path thus changing the focal length. These systems have been demonstrated in both macro and MEMS microelectromechanical systems scales. Canon has demonstrated relatively high speeds approximately 100 Hz bandwidth with large aperture lenses using patented ultrasonic motors that translate one of the optics components within a compound lens along the optical axis. There are also MEMS based versions which use thin film piezoelectric cantilevers or similar structures to move the optical component along the optical axis relative to a static focusing element.

The prior art methods described above suffer from a number of disadvantages. Regarding the first category of devices described above the capability of current large scale deformable optics devices is limited by the large stiffness in typical macro or mini mirrors. This stiffness is caused by the appreciable thickness of the actuator and mirror layers. Much larger changes in focal length could potentially be achieved if this stiffness is reduced.

As for electrostatically actuated devices such devices must avoid electrostatic pull in onto a planar electrode in order to maintain a constant curvature for the focusing element. As a result gaps may be large and forces small. Small electrostatic forces necessitate the use of relatively compliant membranes for the mirrors which thus limits their mechanical bandwidth. In addition the non linear forces generated by the non uniform gap typically present in such devices will result in non uniform bending of the plate. The multi electrode schemes used to compensate for this distortion add additional complexity particularly when curvature uniformity is required over a large tuning range.

Among mechanically actuated devices the macroscale systems are typically slow because of the mass of the components. The MEMS versions have a maximum achievable change in focal length that is generally small typically less than 10 m and thus the application is limited to fine tuning.

While piezo actuated micro mirrors have been used in conjunction with macro scale lenses to achieve focusing devices high speed micro lenses with tunable focal lengths have not yet been implemented. A high speed deformable focusing element could provide new capabilities in numerous applications such as optical switching optical storage disks and scanning confocal microscopy.

For these reasons there is a need for a system and method that allows for high speed tuning of focal lengths of optical elements such as mirrors and lenses over a wide tuning range and which do not suffer from the advantages described above. In particular there is a need for high speed micro lenses with tunable focal lengths.

The present invention provides a variable focal length optical system which is piezoelectrically actuated so as to rapidly change its focal length over a wide tuning range.

In one embodiment of the invention a varifocal optical system includes a substrate and a deformable optical element deposited on the substrate. The optical element may be a mirror for example or a lens. A piezoelectric thin film is deposited on at least a portion of the deformable optical element. A first electrode and a second electrode are disposed on the piezoelectric thin film. Application of an electric voltage between the first electrode and the second electrode alters the dimensions of the thin film thereby deforming the optical element so as to alter its focal length.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention the optical element is a membrane having a substantially circular configuration. The membrane has a thickness of about 0.5 microns to about 3.0 microns and may be made of materials that include SO S SN and ZO. The membrane is in a buckled state and has an initial nominal curvature. In this patent application nominal curvature is defined as the initial residual curvature of the membrane when it is in an unactuated state no voltage applied .

The piezoelectric thin film is preferably made of PZT lead zirconate titanate although other piezoelectric materials are also within the scope of the present invention. The piezoelectric thin film is substantially ring shaped and is positioned on the outer portion of the circular membrane. Upon application of an electric voltage between the first and second electrode a lateral strain is induced in the thin film thereby altering the out of plane deformation of the membrane. This results in a change in the curvature of the membrane and consequently in a change in the focal length of the optical element. The focal length tuning frequency of the optical system can reach a speed of about 1 MHz.

The present invention features a method for tuning the focal length of an optical element. The method includes etching a substrate to fabricate a membrane in a buckled state the membrane being characterized by a nominal curvature and a focal length. The method includes depositing a PZT thin film upon at least a portion of the membrane. The method includes providing a first electrode at an outer edge of the thin film and a second electrode at an inner edge of the film. The method includes applying an electric voltage between the first and second electrodes thereby inducing a lateral strain in the PZT thin film wherein the lateral strain alters the nominal curvature and the focal length of the membrane.

In an alternative embodiment the present invention features a varifocal lens that includes a volume of refractive liquid characterized by a focal length and a curvature. At least one membrane described in paragraph 13 above forms one or more boundaries of the volume of refractive liquid. A PZT thin film is deposited on the membrane and includes a first and second electrode. Application of an electric voltage between the first electrode and the second electrode induces a compressive stress on the film thereby modifying the curvature of the membrane and altering the focal length of the lens.

The varifocal optical lens features in the present invention may be used in other applications for example sample height variation compensation in scanning confocal microscopy vibration compensation for disk based optical storage systems and optical switching.

The present invention uses thin film piezoelectric technology to deform relatively stiff plates so as to achieve high frequency deformable optical components. In particular the present invention features high speed micro optical components whose focal length is controlled by piezoelectric actuation of thin film PZT. Timing ranges of several hundred microns have been achieved. High speed micro optical components in accordance with the present invention are useful for a variety of applications in which high speed focal length variability is required including but not limited to optical switching applications and high speed confocal microscopy.

The piezoelectric thin film is preferably made of PZT material although other types of piezoelectric materials are also within the scope of the present invention. Because of its high dielectric and piezoelectric constant PZT materials yield a larger stored energy density and strain offering the possibility of significantly larger bending moments at lower excitation voltages. In the embodiment illustrated in the varifocal optical system is an iris shaped structure composed of a sol gel monomorph PZT layer which is the piezoelectric layer that is deposited on the membrane . The membrane consists of insulating layers of ZOand SO on a polysilicon structural layer. By way of example a sol gel spin on technique known in the art may be used to fabricate the PZT thin film .

In an exemplary embodiment in which a sol gel process is used to fabricate the PZT thin film lead acetate trihydrate is dissolved in 2 methoxyethanol at 70 degrees Celsius and refluxed. The water of hydration from this Pb precursor is distilled through a reflux condenser to facilitate the addition of moisture sensitive alkoxides of Tand Z. The byproducts of the reaction are expelled following prolonged refluxing at 80 degrees Celsius. The solution is then partially hydrolysed and a controlled amount of acid or base is added as catalyst. A multi step spin on process can be used with pyrolysis at 400 degrees Celsius after each step to remove the organics. After the films are built up to the desired thickness the films are crystallized by annealing at temperatures above 500 degrees Celsius.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention an in plane polarization scheme is used in order to maximize tunability. illustrates a cross section schematic of an in plane excitation of a PZT thin film actuator and the induced bending moment. The in plane polarization scheme illustrated in makes use of the drather than dpiezoelectric coefficient of the PZT. The dcoefficient at approximately 200 pm V is typically at least twice as large as dfor PZT. The illustrated in plane scheme results in an important design tradeoff because the capacitor formed by this configuration has a small cross sectional area film thickness times electrode length and a large dielectric gap electrode spacing the capacitance can be made very small at the expense of requiring a large voltage to induce a sufficiently large electric field. In the illustrated embodiment the measured capacitances for both diameters of the circular membrane are approximately 0.7 pF. The piezoelectrically actuated stress may be accounted for by adding a residual plane stress to the PZT region between the electrodes and the residual plane stress having a value

A key requirement for fabricating controlled buckle membranes is the control of the residual stresses in the thin layers making up the membrane. These stresses determine the initial curvature of the membrane mirror structure and are thus important in determining the tuning range in which a particular mirror can operate. Further the thickness and lateral dimensions of the membrane control the degree of buckling for given residual stresses and applied excitation voltage.

The performance characteristics of the varifocal optical system are therefore strongly dependent upon various design parameters including total and relative film thickness and the radii of the mirror membrane and piezoelectric ring actuator. Table 1 in provides the film thickness and residual stress of the membrane plate and the piezoelectric layer for the preferred embodiment shown in . In this embodiment the membrane plate is a composite layer formed of thermal oxide polysilicon LTO low temperature oxide and insulating ZO. The average residual stress values for the composite layers listed in Table 1 were obtained by measuring cantilever deflections of the materials forming the membrane plate .

One advantage of the varifocal optical system of the present invention lies in its geometrical design which intrinsically provides a parabolic curvature because a parabolic curvature is ideal for imaging and for coherent data transmission. illustrates a series of deflection profiles for the circular membrane . These profiles have been obtained by extracting a portion of the data for 3 D three dimensional image renderings of measured 2 D two dimensional surface profiles of the circular membrane . More specifically a portion of the data corresponding to a single cross section that runs through the center of the membrane was used. Each trace is taken at a different actuator excitation voltage ranging from 0 to 700 volts. As indicated in the figure solid dashed dotted and dash dotted curves are used to differentiate the curves corresponding to the different voltages. As seen in the nominal unactuated deflection of the deformable mirror membrane having a radius of 300 microns and a total membrane thickness of about 6.3 microns is about 7.2 microns. The membrane is thus in a buckled state. In the present invention the buckled state of a circular membrane is used to increase the focal length tuning range.

The effective apertures of the varifocal optical system i.e. the sizes of the parabolic regions for the deformable mirror that would serve to focus light with little or no aberration can be obtained by data analysis of the curves illustrated in . The parabolic regions for both mirror sizes R 150 microns and 300 microns respectively are indicated between arrows in . In the illustrated embodiment piezoelectric ring geometry is used to concentrate the curvature of the membrane in the optically active region of the system. The criterion used for selecting this effective diameter or aperture size was a correlation corresponding to R 0.99 between a parabolic fit and the measured data over the fitted interval. For both sizes of mirrors tested this diameter was very close to one half the total diameter of the thin film plate. Thus the effective apertures for the two devices were 150 m and 300 m.

The varifocal optical system of the present invention can provide new capabilities in numerous applications including but not limited to sample height variation compensation in scanning confocal microscopy vibration compensation and collimation correction of poorly collimated beams in optical switching applications where path lengths change.

Other applications of the present invention may include an embodiment not shown in which a varifocal lens constructed in accordance with the present invention provides vibration compensation for disk based optical storage readout.

In sum the present invention discloses a deformable microoptical system having a focal length that is controlled by piezoelectric actuation of thin film PZT. Measurements of the nominal focal length and tuning sensitivity of two sizes of micromachined deformable mirrors show reasonable correlation with plate bending solutions generated from finite element models. Tuning ranges of several hundred microns and a tuning frequency in the low MHz range have been achieved. The substantial tuning speed and tuning range suggests that the deformable optical system of the present invention can be useful in applications where rapid focal length tuning is a requirement such as optical switching and scanning confocal microscopy.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described with reference to specific preferred embodiments it should be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. It is understood that various modifications may be made therein and that the invention or inventions may be implemented in various forms and embodiments and that they may be applied in numerous applications only some of which have been described herein. As used herein the terms includes and including mean without limitation. It is intended by the following claims to claim any and all modifications and variations that fall within the true scope of the inventive concepts.

