---

title: Mobility network operator service delivery hub
abstract: A service delivery hub controlled by a network operator includes an access controller; a network services gateway in communication with the access controller and in communication with external network elements, a partner management center in communication with the access controller and the network services gateway, the partner management center configured to establish a service level agreement with application service providers or enabler providers; an interface defined by the service level agreement, the interface configured to provide a single point access to the application service developers, to provide a set of programming interfaces to the developers whereas the programming interfaces provide access to the external network elements; and a charging system interface to a charging gateway, wherein the charging system is subject to the service level agreement and wherein the service delivery hub allocates revenue in accordance with the service level agreement.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09124554&OS=09124554&RS=09124554
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 09124554
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100309
---
This case is related to U.S. Application No. 12 720 277 entitled Method for Mechanically Generating Content for Messages and U.S. Application No. 12 720 300 entitled Method for Automating Onboarding Application Developers to Sales Distribution Channels both of which are being filed concurrently herewith and will be assigned to the same assignee.

This invention is directed to a service delivery platform and more particularly to a system apparatus and method for providing network based services to third party application providers and enablers.

Third party application service providers often require access to telecommunications services in order to exercise their respective business models. Traditionally network operators have been able to develop systems and processes for providing third parties such desired access. Service delivery platforms created by network providers and tied to the network are used to provide native services to application service providers. Such service delivery platforms become an economical and efficient mechanism for providing network access.

The problem is that the functionality of service delivery platforms is very limited most often to access bandwidth and load control and security with little other functionality provided. Moreover service delivery platforms are local to the networks being accessed meaning third party developers need to negotiate agreements and replicate their solution on multiple delivery platforms. The limited nature of service delivery platforms is especially difficult in the wireless telecommunications industry where rich network functionality is developing and becoming available yet not accessible to the third party developers. Thus there is a need for a full function service delivery platform which provides additional functionality including monetization hosting policy control storefront sales portals settlement reporting routing and service management. There is also a need for a centralized service delivery platform to provide a single point of access to application developers to avoid replication of offerings and inefficient use of resources. Finally there is a need to expand this functionality beyond application service providers to enablers and content aggregators and other third parties.

A service delivery hub controlled by a network operator includes an access controller a network services gateway in communication with the access controller and in communication with external network elements a partner management center in communication with the access controller and the network services gateway the partner management center configured to establish a service level agreement with application service providers or enabler providers an interface defined by the service level agreement the interface configured to provide a single point access to the application service developers to provide a set of programming interfaces to the developers whereas the programming interfaces provide access to the external network elements and a charging system interface to a charging gateway wherein the charging system is subject to the service level agreement and wherein the service delivery hub allocates revenue in accordance with the service level agreement. The network services gateway communicates with the external network elements via a VPN tunnel. The network services gateway provides an interface to a network enabler wherein the network enabler provides access to external network elements and wherein the access controller includes policy control functionality. The access controller provides an interface to a portal and also provides an interface to an aggregator wherein the aggregator is configured to combine applications from one or more application service providers and provides aggregated content through the service delivery hub in accordance with a service level agreement. The single point of access for the application is provided by a partner management center configured to enter into a service level agreement with a network operator and wherein the service delivery platform is further configured to develop and test an application to obtain certification of the application and to transmit the application to be hosted on the service delivery hub and wherein the service delivery hub is configured to distribute the application to one or more other networks or locales without the application service provider requiring independent access to the one or more other networks. There is also an operations and maintenance function to load balance access to the network elements.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention there is provided a system for providing services to mobile customers including a service delivery hub configured for establishing service level agreements with third party application service providers or enabler providers managing access to the network monitoring and allocating external network resources interfacing with external mobile networks or external network subsystems and interfacing with a charging system a network enabler in communication with the service delivery hub to provide services to customers of external mobile networks a portal in communication with the service delivery hub for providing access to third party application providers or enabler providers and a charging system in communication with the service delivery hub wherein the service delivery hub provides a single point of access to the third party application providers or enabler providers and wherein the applications and enablers are provided to the customer of the external networks.

In accordance with another embodiment of the invention there is provided a method of distributing applications from a single point of entry in a network including the steps of providing login credentials to an application service provider to a service delivery hub establishing a service level agreement between the application service provider and the service delivery hub receiving an application at the service delivery hub receiving a request for purchasing an application at the service delivery hub from a storefront providing network access for distribution of the application and settling a transaction among the service delivery hub and the application service provider in accordance with the service level agreement.

For the purposes of describing an exemplary embodiment of the invention reference will be made to the figures set forth above and certain terms. As an aid to the reader exemplary definitions of such terms are defined as follows 

With reference to there is shown a system having a service delivery hub in communication with network operations and . As described more fully herein the service delivery hub provides a central access point for third party ASPs aggregators and enabler providers and includes a set of application programming interfaces APIs provided by the network provider or enabler providers. The service delivery hub also includes a charging gateway which provides the capability for third parties to monetize their applications and a settlement center which balances accounts of multiple parties and network operators in accordance with contractual fee splitting arrangements or other mechanisms determined by the parties so called recursive settlements. The service delivery hub also includes a control center to manage access to the system.

Referring again to there is shown a third party application server in communication with the service delivery hub . The service delivery hub is targeted to produce an integration layer for access to the network operations and specifically network elements operational support systems and business support systems OSS BSS and Internet application service providers ASPs . The network operations and also referred to as networks herein are illustrative only and may vary in number from one to many networks. The networks may be stand alone networks in a particular geographic area which areas may be delineated on a country or state basis or any other geographic distinction. The networks may also be delineated by network operator or network type. There may also be more than one network in any one geographic region.

In the exemplary embodiment of network operations are designated as being in the country of Columbia network operations in Peru and network operations in Ecuador. Within each network operations there is shown a representative sample of network subsystems contained therein and in the case of network operations in Columbia shown numbered as . Those subsystems within network operations include the short message service center SMSC multi media service center MMSC wireless access protocol WAP gateway a charging gateway labeled CGW a charging and messaging gateway CMG used by aggregators enterprise data warehouse EDW customer care subscriber interface module SIM browsing and operations and maintenance O M . It will be understood by those skilled in the art that the identification of such subsystems is representative and is not meant to specify any one type of proprietary system and that each country or location may have its own instance of such subsystems. Moreover not all subsystems are necessarily found in each network operations and there may be other subsystems not listed above for example profile gateway PGW and emergency management systems EMS are illustrated as part of network operation but not as part of network operation .

The service delivery hub exposes access to third party applications to network services provided by the network subsystems. The service delivery hub supports third party developed services and controls application usage of network operations and third party services. It is preferred that the service delivery hub employ industry standards known to those skilled in the art or to be developed by the industry including but not limited to Parlay X SOAP REST HTTPS JKD 1.5 XML SSL X509 certification for transport security and WSSE username token profile security.

The service delivery hub has interfaces into each of the subsystems within network operations . An exemplary methodology for using those interfaces may include establishing a VPN tunnel from the service delivery hub to the subsystem of interest. Thus if an application residing on the third party application system server desires access to SMSC the service delivery hub will establish a VPN tunnel or other connection to SMSC thereby providing the application access to SMSC

An example of this routing is shown in . In that example an aggregator is utilizing the service delivery hub to access an enabler located in Mexico through an API provided by enabler and made available to aggregator through service delivery hub . The aggregator will send a request message to the service delivery hub which includes an identifier in this case a MSISDN. The service delivery hub will interpret the MSISDN and determine that it is destined for enabler located in Mexico and not for the enablers and located in Columbia and Peru respectively. The service delivery hub then establishes a VPN tunnel to the enabler located in Mexico and will prevent access to other networks. This limited but direct access may be monetized by the enabler and the network operator.

The service delivery hub operates based on a series of service level agreements SLAs between various parties and the network operator. The service delivery platform encapsulates access to the network enablers OSS BSS enablers third party provided enablers and ASP applications. The service delivery platform provides an application service creation gateway which provides standard APIs and software development kits SDKs to third party application providers. The service delivery hub provides management functions for partners and aggregators such as authentication hosting SLA policy control service routing limited charging messaging usage billing settlement monitoring and reporting.

With reference to an exemplary service delivery hub includes 12 functionality such as application service gateway ASG enterprise service bus ESB network service gateway NSG partner management center and Operation Maintenance . External to the service devlivery hub may be HP Openview which may be an implementation of an OSS supporting the operation and maintenance . ASG provides access control policy control and blacklist whitelist control.

Portal provides an external link which uses the ASG functionality to control access to the service delivery hub and further to authenticate users. The portal function of the service delivery hub provides for the sales and distribution of content and services including third party applications. Specific functionality may include device management and rendering a recommendation engine detailed application descriptions product categorization multi language support sales and revenue settlement reports advertising associations and multi network footprint.

The charging gateway User Profile Server shown in an exemplary embodiment as outside of service delivery hub but interfacing therewith provides storage media for user information and profiles. Access to the charging gateway User profile server by the ASG function is routed through the ESB . Additional access and control interfaces are provided within the ASG function for access by aggregators and third party enablers .

The access control function within ASG provides services such as service provider and user authentication and verification. The ASG allocates and prioritizes service delivery hub resources for the application accessing the service delivery hub . The service level policy control function enables the service delivery hub to control and if necessary limit the system resources available to a third party application to prevent system overloading. By controlling the system resources through the service delivery hub the network resources are able to be allocated along a broad range of applications. Policy control also provides for monetization at the service level or the parameter level for access to all network enablers. The scarcity of or availability of resources depending on time of day and loading algorithms provide variable and cost effective price strategies to third party developers and enablers. Quality of service and pricing associated therewith may also be provided by the policy control function.

Routing control functionality is provided by enterprise service bus ESB . This includes developing or configuring the routing policy. The routing control functionality of the service delivery hub enables the third party providers to interface with the network or multiple networks at one and only one access point. The service delivery hub is preferably able to interpret the MSISDN to determine the local network operator involved in the transaction and route accordingly. For example the ESB may route based on MSISDN in a GSM environment. The routing may also be determined based on location including country or market or a sales portal catalog.

The network services gateway NSG within the service delivery hub interfaces with network enablers to provide access to network functionality including for example SMSC MMSC or WAP GW or any other network elements or systems. The NSG protects the network resources from overloading manages all requests against an element and weighs any new requests coming in against the configured load capacity of any element. If multiple elements are available it will load balance the requests across the multiple elements. For example if there are multiple SMSCs in a given region if one SMSC is overloaded the NSG may transfer load to another SMSC

The service delivery hub includes a partner management function which include the contracting capability between the network operators and the enabler providers and the network operators and the ASPs. The partner management functions include the ability to allow an administrator to configure contracts and SLAs for utilizing thea charging module for charging transactions. for example the charging subsystem in . In that example a third party may access the service delivery platform using the SOAP protocol interface to access the SMSC subsystem located in Columbia under contract. The service delivery platform will access the charging subsystem for charging and reconciling the cost of such access to the third party or its customers . In this example the partner management function plays the role of establishing the contracts and SLAs in the network. The act of establishing the connectivity and the routing is performed by the ASG and ESB for the charging reference and the ASG ESB and the NSG for the SMSC reference. From a third party s development standpoint the third party system will receive an API for the desired enabler in this example the SMSC in Columbia. The third party would then develop the program using the API on the third party system and test the program using the service delivery hub test environment. Once development is completed the third party system will complete its purchase of access to the enabler and cut over to the production version of the service delivery hub .

Referring again to the operations and maintenance functionality of the service delivery hub includes system management and reporting functions and provides interfaces to the operational support systems OSS and electronic data warehouses EDW . The operations and maintenance function is to support the platforms from a performance availability and trouble shooting perspective. Alarms will be sent to the OSS when subsystems of the overall architecture are unavailable. The settlement functionality lies within the partner management center of the service delivery hub and provides allocation of revenue and reports covering various aspects of sales. This may include asset sales such as applications or enabler usage. Report features may include multi currency and multi country settlements. Moreover there may be recursive settlement functionality for multi party transactions. The reporting functionality within the partner management center of the service delivery hub may be customized for a variety of applications and enablers. For example reports may include application service provider settlements application service provider traffic enabler provider settlement enabler provider traffic traffic TPS reports error availability and sales portal reports.

The service delivery hub provides the added functionality of monetization of third party applications and services. For example the network enablers are provided the tools to be able to charge at the parameter level for access to all network enablers. Using the access control and other policy rules the network operator on behalf of third party enabler providers is able to throttle or gate applications based on TPS or total volume time of day and other parameters. Moreover the network operators may apply quality of service to the network based APIs and third party supplied APIs.

With respect to third party enablers the network operator may pay or revenue share for the use of such enablers. The network operator may sell access to the third party enablers. Finally the network operator may recursively charge and settle with third party enablers.

In operation the ASP may enter into a contractual relationship with a mobile network operator through which contract the network operator will provide functionality and interfaces defined by a set of SLA s to the ASP. The ASP incorporates the functionality into the application. The application is then either sold on the network operator s portal or multiple portals located in different geographic areas or sold directly to the consumer.

Continuing with an operational view an enabler either a third party network enabler or a third party application enabler may also enter into a contractual relationship with the mobile network operator. The enabler may provide a set of interfaces to the service delivery hub on a revenue share basis to be used by third party ASPs using the service delivery hub .

There are many examples of this monetization business model. For example application service providers utilizing the service delivery hub may contain products or services offered to the customers and include contractual terms with the network operator through which the network operator and the ASP both share in the monetization of an application. For example video game developers may offer a gaming system to its customers on a storefront accessible through the portal of the service delivery platform. The game may include for example a free trial version downloadable to a mobile device with an option to purchase the full version. The network operator will receive the order from the customer deliver the full version of the game to the customer receive payment from the customer and then share the revenue generated with the ASP.

According to another exemplary utilization of the invention an enabler may provide messaging services through an API that is made available to the ASP developing a video gaming application. For example the enabler may offer two products to the ASP for a gaming application sending and receiving SMS messages and sending and receiving MMS messages which permit users of the game to text or video chat while playing the game. For each the ASP may charge its customers either a flat fee or a use based fee or build the fee into the cost of the game. The network operator may charge the ASP a set up fee a maintenance fee or a service level based fee for use or a flat rate fee for use.

In another exemplary embodiment an enabler may provide a service to the network operator on behalf of third party ASPs. For example the enabler may provide mobile advertising services including getting advertisements posting advertisements and tracking advertisements. Depending on the contractual relationships the parties involved in the transaction may share the advertising revenue either two ways i.e. the enabler provider and network provider or three ways including the ASP.

Application service providers may sell anything using the network operator s storefront or its own storefront. In addition to on device applications in which applications such as games are downloadable directly onto a mobile device the service delivery platform also supports web hosted based applications which are stored on network and accessed by mobile devices through a portal. The service delivery hub permits the ASP to host its own web hosted applications or have them hosted in a network cloud operated by the network operator. In the latter case and using the example of a gaming system the gaming system may be hosted in the network cloud and offered to subscribers on a subscription fee per month basis. As such the service delivery hub permits the ASP to access and post its offering in one location while outsourcing to the network operator the hosting accounting fulfillment collection and settlement functions with a revenue share used to monetize the offering.

In the ASP model there may be aggregators of content that utilize the services of the network operator through the service delivery hub . Content to be aggregated may be obtained from ASPs for example a gaming aggregator may offer multiple games from a variety of ASPs on a single storefront either its own storefront or a storefront accessible through the network operator portal. Alternatively such aggregators may make their content available to ASPs or directly to customers of network operators. For example content aggregators may collect and offer music under contract with recording studios and make that music content available to game developers for a fee. In either case the aggregators utilizing the service delivery hub are able to deploy a single interconnection and achieve distribution across a wide array of network operators in diverse geographical locations.

Enablers may provide access via application programming interfaces APIs to a wide range of functions. On the portal side API s may be provided for functions including ownership checking purchasing quoting delivery catalog discovery device checking advertising and subscription notification. Network API s may be provided for charging customer profiling SMS WAP Push and MMS. External API s may include searching functionality while service delivery hub API s may include alarm notification. Moreover external API s may be used by third party developers to create their own enablers that can be resold to other providers or other developers or embedded as a library in an SDK.

With reference to there is shown a block diagram illustrating an exemplary embodiment of the functions of the business process implemented by specially programmed computer servers. The transaction is between the network operator and an ASP as supported by the service delivery hub . The server associated with an ASP will access the service delivery hub to complete a contract template which in this example contains a request to purchase two products P and P . The template sets forth contractual terms including the product and the price and any applicable SLAs for each of those products . Each product then is referred to an application programming interface shown as API for product P and API for product P . Each of those APIs are provided by a third party enabler through an enabler function located within the service delivery hub and in this example each also has an associated cost. With this business relationship established the ASP then may utilize the service delivery hub in the execution of its business plan.

While the service delivery hub been described in connection with the various embodiments of the various figures it is to be understood that other similar embodiments can be used or modifications and additions can be made to the described embodiment for performing the same types of functionality in service delivery without deviating therefrom. For example one skilled in the art will recognize that the service delivery hub may be located anywhere with portal access from multiple locations. The service delivery hub may provide access to one or multiple networks simultaneously and block access to other networks. The service delivery platform may be scaled to provide access to a plurality of networks either domestic or international. Any type of telecommunications network may be supported including but not limited to GSM CDMA EDGE 3G 4G LTE or any other wireless network. While VPN tunneling to connect to the plurality of networks has been described other types of access and communications are contemplated including SSL. Therefore the service delivery hub should not be limited to any single embodiment but rather should be construed in breadth and scope in accordance with the appended claims.

