---

title: Perylene nanofiber fluorescent sensor for highly sensitive and selective sensing of amines
abstract: 


url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08486708&OS=08486708&RS=08486708
owner: University of Utah Research Foundation
number: 08486708
owner_city: Salt Lake City
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100129
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application 61 148 780 filed Jan. 30 2009 which is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Grants CHE0641353 and CBET730667 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The Government has certain rights to this invention.

This invention relates generally to fluorescent materials and the use of such materials for detection of amines. Therefore the present invention relates generally to the fields of chemistry and materials science.

Development of sensors or probes that can be used to detect the trace vapor of organic amines represents one of the active research fields in chemistry and materials science particularly those related to the emerging nanoscience and nanotechnology. Volatile amines have been heavily used in various areas ranging from chemical and pharmaceutical to food industries. Some of the amines like hydrazine have also been used in the military as fuel additives in rocket and fighter jet propulsion systems. Detecting these amines with high sensitivity is not only critical to air pollution monitoring and control but also may provide expedient ways for quality control of food and even medical diagnosis of certain types of disease. For example in diagnosing uremia and lung cancer released biogenic amines are commonly used as biomarkers.

Although much success has been achieved for detection of amines in solutions using various types of sensors the vapor based detection of gaseous amines still remains challenging. This challenge is largely due to the limited availability of sensory materials that enable vapor detection with both high sensitivity and selectivity. Fluorescent sensing and probing based on organic sensory materials represents a unique class of detection techniques that usually provide a simple expedient way for chemical detection and analysis. However there are not many organic materials available that are sufficiently fluorescent in the solid state and suited for use as sensory materials in vapor detection. These materials may be strongly fluorescent in molecular state in solutions. Moreover compared to the more common p type i.e. electron donating materials which are suited for sensing oxidative reagents like nitro based compounds the availability of n type organic materials i.e. electron accepting and suited for sensing reducing reagents like amines is much more limited.

In light of the problems and deficiencies noted above fluorescent sensor compounds for detecting amines can be 3 4 9 10 tetracarboxyl perylene compounds having the formula I 

where A and A are independently chosen from N R1 N R2 and O such that both A and A are not O and R1 through R10 are amine binding moieties solubility enhancing groups or hydrogen such that at least one of R1 through R10 is an amine binding moiety. Typically the fluorescent sensor compounds can be formed into a nanofiber structure although this is not required.

A nanofiber based fluorescent sensor compound can be formed via synthesis of the underlying perylene compound which is then formed into the nanofibers. For example a 3 4 9 10 tetracarboxyl perylene compound having the Formula I as previously noted can be synthesized. The perylene compound can be self assembled into nanofibers via any suitable process such as but not limited to a slow controlled solvent exchange step rapid solution dispersion phase transfer at the interface between two solvents sol gel processing direct vaporization of the solvent or any other suitable self assembly methods including the surface assisted process. The nanofiber fluorescent sensor compound can optionally be formed into a film of entangled nanofibers by coating the nanofiber dispersion on a substrate.

There has thus been outlined rather broadly the more important features of the invention so that the detailed description thereof that follows may be better understood and so that the present contribution to the art may be better appreciated. Other features of the present invention will become clearer from the following detailed description of the invention taken with the accompanying figures and claims or may be learned by the practice of the invention.

The following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention makes reference to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and in which are shown by way of illustration exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. While these exemplary embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention it should be understood that other embodiments may be realized and that various changes to the invention may be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the present invention. Thus the following more detailed description of the embodiments of the present invention is not intended to limit the scope of the invention as claimed but is presented for purposes of illustration only and not limitation to describe the features and characteristics of the present invention to set forth the best mode of operation of the invention and to sufficiently enable one skilled in the art to practice the invention. Accordingly the scope of the present invention is to be defined solely by the appended claims.

The singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Thus for example reference to a binding moiety includes reference to one or more of such groups and reference to exposing refers to one or more such steps.

As used herein alkylene refers to a saturated hydrocarbon having two valencies i.e. for bonding with adjacent groups. Non limiting examples of alkylenes include CH CH CH CH etc. This is in contrast to alkyl groups which are similar but have a single valency and include at least one CHend group.

As used herein when referring to a component of a composition primarily indicates that that component is present in a greater amount than any other component of the relevant composition.

As used herein with respect to an identified property or circumstance substantially refers to a degree of deviation that is sufficiently small so as to not measurably detract from the identified property or circumstance. The exact degree of deviation allowable may in some cases depend on the specific context.

As used herein a plurality of items structural elements compositional elements and or materials may be presented in a common list for convenience. However these lists should be construed as though each member of the list is individually identified as a separate and unique member. Thus no individual member of such list should be construed as a de facto equivalent of any other member of the same list solely based on their presentation in a common group without indications to the contrary.

Concentrations amounts and other numerical data may be presented herein in a range format. It is to be understood that such range format is used merely for convenience and brevity and should be interpreted flexibly to include not only the numerical values explicitly recited as the limits of the range but also to include all the individual numerical values or sub ranges encompassed within that range as if each numerical value and sub range is explicitly recited. For example a numerical range of about 1 to about 4.5 should be interpreted to include not only the explicitly recited limits of 1 to about 4.5 but also to include individual numerals such as 2 3 4 and sub ranges such as 1 to 3 2 to 4 etc. The same principle applies to ranges reciting only one numerical value such as less than about 4.5 which should be interpreted to include all of the above recited values and ranges. Further such an interpretation should apply regardless of the breadth of the range or the characteristic being described.

Any steps recited in any method or process claims may be executed in any order and are not limited to the order presented in the claims unless clearly indicated otherwise. Means plus function or step plus function limitations will only be employed where for a specific claim limitation all of the following conditions are present in that limitation a means for or step for is expressly recited and b a corresponding function is expressly recited. The structure material or acts that support the means plus function are expressly recited in the description herein. Accordingly the scope of the invention should be determined solely by the appended claims and their legal equivalents rather than by the descriptions and examples given herein.

A new type of fluorescence sensor for expedient vapor detection of organic amines with both high sensitivity and selectivity is provided. The sensing mechanism is primarily based on quenching of the fluorescence emission of the sensory materials upon interaction with the amine molecules. The sensory materials can be composed of well defined nanofibers fabricated from an n type organic semiconductor molecule. The long range exciton migration intrinsic to the one dimensional well organized molecular arrangement within the nanofiber enables amplified fluorescence quenching by the surface adsorbed analytes quencher molecules . Upon deposition onto a substrate the entangled nanofibers form a mesh like highly porous film which provides maximal adsorption and accumulation of the gaseous molecules under detection leading to expedient vapor sensing of amines with unprecedented efficiency down to detection limit in ppt range .

Fluorescent sensor compounds for detecting amines can be 3 4 9 10 tetracarboxyl perylene compounds can generally have the formula I 

where A and A are independently chosen from N R1 N R2 and O such that both A and A are not O and R1 through R10 are amine binding moieties solubility enhancing groups or hydrogen such that at least one of R1 through R10 is an amine binding moiety. Typically the fluorescent sensor compounds can be formed into a nanofiber structure although this is not required.

In one specific aspect the fluorescent sensor compound can be an imide anhydride perylene where A is N R1 and A is O. Formula II illustrates one specific class of imide anhydride perylenes where R3 R6 and R7 R10 are hydrogen.

In another alternative the 3 4 9 10 tetracarboxyl perylene compound can be a bisimide i.e. A is N R1 and A is N R2. Each of R1 and R2 can be C1 to C13 alkyl groups as discussed above. Furthermore carboxylic acid can be a side group which is added to act as the amine binding group. Formula III illustrates one alternative class of carboxylic acid bisimides of the present invention.

In still another alternative embodiment the 3 4 9 10 tetracarboxyl perylene compound can include carboxylic acid and or anhydride moieties. Such side groups can be useful to provide amine binding groups. As discussed in more detailed below such solution processing usually involves self assembly mechanisms. In some embodiments the solubility enhancing moieties can be located along the sides of the perylene core i.e. R3 R6 and R7 R10. However most often the amine binding moieties can be located along sides of the perylene core. Formulas IV VI illustrate several carboxylic acid and anhydride substituted perylene compounds suitable for use in the sensor compounds.

The nanofiber based fluorescent sensor compounds can be formed via synthesis of the underlying perylene compound which is then formed into the nanofibers. For example a 3 4 9 10 tetracarboxyl perylene compound having the Formula I as previously noted can be synthesized. In one specific example the starting compound used for synthesizing the sensor molecule 3 4 9 10 tetracarboxylic perylene dianhydride Formula I with A and A both as O and R3 R10 as hydrogen can be obtained commercially from many chemical manufacturers including Sigma Aldrich and Fisher Scientific. A diimide compound synthesized from the dianhydride can be subjected to partial hydrolysis to form an anhydride imide such as those described by Formula II above.

The perylene compound can be self assembled into nanofibers via any suitable process such as but not limited to a slow controlled solvent exchange step rapid solution dispersion phase transfer at the interface between two solvents sol gel processing direct vaporization of the solvent or any other suitable self assembly methods including the surface assisted process. A more detailed description of some of these options can be found in a recent publication Ling Zang a special issue in Nanoscience 41 2008 1596 1608 which is incorporated herein by reference. The slow controlled solvent exchange step can be accomplished by dissolving the compound in a suitable good solvent e.g. dichloromethane chloroform tetrachloromethane alkanes etc. which typically have a solubility of at least 0.2 mM and in some cases at least 1 mM concentration for the perylene compound. A solution of the perylene compound can be placed in a closed chamber in proximity to a poor solvent e.g. some solubility for the perylene compound but generally less than about 1 M concentration and in some cases less than about 0.01 mM . Poor solvents can vary depending on the particular perylene compound but can often include methanol ethanol hexane heptane cyclohexane acetonitrile etc. Vapor diffusion between the two solvents will gradually decrease the concentration of good solvent in the perylene solution and the solubility of the solution. As a result the perylene compound begins to crystallize slowly into the nanofibers of the present invention. The rate of nanofiber formation can depend on the particular solvents temperature etc. but is often about a day to reach equilibrium. The ultrathin nanofibers 20 50 nm in diameter can be fabricated via a quick crystallization method e.g. injecting the good solvent solution of perylene monoimide e.g. 0.3 mL 3.4 mM into poor solvent e.g. hexane 1.2 mL in a small test tube followed by 30 min aging.

The nanofibers can vary in size depending on the specific perylene compound used. However as a general guideline the nanofibers can have a diameter from about 10 nm to about 1000 nm in some cases to about 500 nm and one aspect from about 100 nm to about 350 nm while in another aspect from about 10 nm to about 50 nm. Similarly the length of the nanofibers can vary considerably but is often from about 1 m to about 1 mm and in some cases from about 10 m.

The formed nanofibers can then be suspended in a liquid vehicle in which the nanofibers are very poorly soluble e.g. less than about 1 micromolar concentration at least less than 0.01 mM or completely insoluble to form a nanofiber dispersion. Non limiting examples of suitable liquid vehicles can include hexane heptane methanol cyclohexane alcohols and the like.

The nanofiber fluorescent sensor compound can be formed into a film of entangled nanofibers by coating the nanofiber dispersion on a substrate and allowing the solvent to evaporate.

The formed nanofibers have shown rapid fluorescence responses upon exposure to various amine compounds. The nanofiber fluorescent sensor compound can be exposed to a fluid sample in which the nanofiber fluorescent sensor compound is not substantially soluble. The fluid sample can generally be a fluid containing the target gaseous analyte although liquids can also be tested. A fluorescence change can be measured and or displayed upon exposure of the nanofiber sensor compound to the fluid sample. Typically the fluorescence change can be accomplished using a fluorometer or simply a photon detector that can measure the fluorescence emission intensity. Depending on the application the displaying of fluorescence change can be a quantitative measure of fluorescence response e.g. a percentage change of luminescence intensity. Alternatively the displaying is qualitative such as by visual observation of a fluorescence change. Such qualitative measure can be sufficient when the mere presence of a particular amine is sought rather than an absolute measure of the concentration.

The specific performance of individual perylene nanofibers can vary. However in one aspect of the invention the nanofiber fluorescent sensor compound can exhibit a fluorescence change e.g. quenching from 50 to 100 for a majority of amines selected from the group consisting of phenol cyclohexylamine dibutylamine aniline butylamine triethylamine hydrazine and ammonium hydroxide. Furthermore the fluorescence change for each of cyclohexylamine dibutylamine aniline butylamine triethylamine hydrazine and ammonium hydroxide can most often be from about 80 to about 100 .

Advantageously the nanofiber fluorescent sensor compounds can be regenerated by dissolving the nanofiber fluorescent sensor compound and regenerating the nano fibers as previously described. It is noted that such regeneration also does not typically involve a chemical reaction but rather dissolving of the perylene compound in a suitable solvent and repeating the self assembly process previously described. Thus although not generally regenerable by an end user the sensor compound can be readily collected and recycled with no residual effects on the performance of the material.

Furthermore the fluorescent sensor compounds can be used as fluorescent dyes or other applications such as in solar cells and the like which do not require nanofiber morphology. This technology can also find a broad range of applications in health and security examination where instant detection of trace amine is usually demanded. Indeed sensitive vapor detection of organic amines is not only critical to the air pollution monitoring and control but will also provide expedient ways for food quality control and even medical diagnosis of certain types of disease e.g. uremia and lung cancer for which biogenic amines released are usually used as the biomarkers.

Compared to the electrical sensors like those based on chemiresistors the reported fluorescent optical sensor system represents a class of simple expedient technique for chemical vapor detection and analysis. In contrast to the polymer film based fluorescent sensors the nanofibril film based sensors provide three dimensional continuous pores or channels formed by the entangled piling of the nanofibers enabling expedient diffusion of the analyte molecules throughout the film matrix and thus fast response milliseconds for the sensing. The high porosity and thus large surface area formed by the entangled piling of nanofibers also provides maximal adsorption and accumulation of the gaseous molecules under detection leading to expedient vapor sensing of amines with unprecedented efficiency down to detection limit in ppt range . The nanofibril materials as well as the new sensing module thus developed can open wide options to improve the detection efficacy and find broad range of applications in health and security examination where instant detection of trace amine is usually demanded.

PTCDI perylene tetracarboxylic diimide represents a robust class of n type organic materials with strong photostability which is particularly desirable for being used in optical sensing or probing regarding both the performance sustainability and reproducibility. The sensor compounds can find broad applications in health and security examination. For example air quality and security industries can benefit from real time amine detection. In field monitoring of air quality against pollution by toxic amines is one example which have commonly been used in various industry and military systems. Particularly hydrazine has been heavily used in both industry as an oxygen scavenger and corrosion inhibitor and military as a fuel in rocket propulsion systems . Moreover this compound has been implicated as a carcinogen and is readily absorbed through the skin. Another typical toxic amine is ethanolamine which has been used as the scrubbing agent in the ventilation system of submarines to remove carbon dioxide from the air. Due to their toxicity and reactivity facile detection of these amines is relevant to both life and environment security.

Health and clinic applications can include rapid screening of uremia and lung cancer one of the most common cancers particularly in the developing countries. Alkyl amines will be used as the biomarkers for uremia diseases while aromatic amines will be used for lung cancer. Very trace amount of amines breathed out of the patient will be detected at concentration of ppt thus enabling rapid diagnostics or warning of the diseases at the early stage. Food industry applications can include high throughput quality control and monitoring by detecting the amines released from foods.

A new type of fluorescence sensory material with high sensitivity selectivity and photostability has been developed for vapor detection of organic amines. The sensory material is primarily based on well defined nanofibers fabricated from an n type organic semiconductor molecule. Upon deposition onto a substrate these entangled nanofibers form a meshlike highly porous film which allows for maximal exposure to the gaseous analyte molecules expedient diffusion of the molecules throughout the meshlike film and increased adsorption and accumulation of the gaseous molecules within the porous matrix.

Compared to the electrical sensors like those based on chemiresistors the reported fluorescent sensor system represents a class of simple expedient technique for chemical detection and analysis. In contrast to the polymer film based fluorescent sensors the nano fibril film based sensors provide three dimensional continuous pores or channels formed by the entangled piling of the nanofibers enabling expedient diffusion of the analyte molecules throughout the film matrix and thus fast response milliseconds for the sensing. The nanofibril materials as well as the new sensing module thus developed may open wide options to improve the detection efficacy and find broad range of applications in health and security examination where instant detection of trace amine is highly beneficial.

A strongly fluorescent n type organic semiconductor material which can be fabricated into well defined nanofibers and employed in efficient fluorescent probing of gaseous amines is described. Without being bound to any particular theory it is thought that the long range exciton migration intrinsic to the one dimensional well organized molecular arrangement within the nanofiber enables amplified fluorescence quenching by the surface adsorbed analytes quencher molecules . Taking advantage of such amplified fluorescence quenching intrinsic to nanofibers a new type of nanofibers was fabricated from an n type material that can be used for effective sensing of reductive compounds such as organic amines through electron transfer based fluorescence quenching. The building block molecule 1 employed for the nanofibril fabrication is shown in Formula V which was synthesized through partial hydrolysis of hexylheptyl substituted 3 4 9 10 perylene tetracarboxylic diimide PTCDI .

In particular N 1 hexylheptyl perylene 3 4 9 10 tetracarboxyl 3 4 anhydride 9 10 imide 1 was synthesized by suspending 1 g N N di hexylheptyl perylene 3 4 9 10 tetracarboxyl diimide 1.3 mmol in 60 mL of t BuOH containing 700 mg solid KOH 85 . The mixture was heated with vigorous stirring to reflux. After refluxing for 1.5 h the reaction solution was cooled to room temperature followed by addition of 50 mL of 2 M HCl followed by stirring over night. The resulting solid was collected by vacuum filtration through a 0.45 m membrane filter Osmonics . The solid was then washed thoroughly with distilled water until the pH of washings turned to be neutral. The hydrolyzed product from N N di hexylheptyl perylene 3 4 9 10 tetracarboxyl diimide was directly purified by column chromatography eluent methylene chloride yielding 0.35 g 35 of molecule 1 having the following properties H NMR CDCl 0.83 t 6H 2CH 1.17 1.42 m 16H 8CH 1.85 m 2H CH 2.24 m 2H CH 5.19 m 1H CH 8.67 m 8H perylene .

Self assembly of molecule 1 into nanofibers was performed through a slow solvent exchange process which was realized via vapor diffusion within a closed chamber. Briefly a test tube containing about 0.2 mL CHClsolution of 1 1.7 mM was placed in a 50 mL jar which contained about 10 mL of methanol followed by sealing the jar for slow vapor diffusion between the two solvents . Upon gradual solvent exchange the solution in the test tube became more dominant with methanol which is a poor solvent with low solubility for molecule 1 thereby leading to self assembly of the molecules into nanofibers.

Because of the slow crystallization process controlled by the slow vapor diffusion the nanofibers fabricated via such a process are usually in a well defined shape and sizes as shown in . After about one day the exchange between the two solvents reached the equilibrium resulting in complete assembly of the molecules and precipitating down to the bottom of the test tube. The nanofibers thus obtained were re dispersed in hexane producing a suspension well suited for deposition on a substrate either for microscopy imaging or vapor sensing tests. For each of the sensing tests the whole amount of the nanofibers thus prepared were deposited on a glass substrate to produce a film that maintained the same surface area adsorption for all the sensing tests as presented in .

The fluorescence quantum yield of the nanofibril film was estimated by measuring the absorption and fluorescence intensity in comparison with a thin film fluorescence standard with 100 . The thin film standard was prepared by sandwiching one drop of a polystyrene toluene gel between two glass cover slips. Within the gel was dissolved an appropriate concentration of a PTCDI molecule N N di hexylheptyl perylene 3 4 9 10 tetracarboxyl diimide HH PTCDI . By maintaining molecular dispersion of the molecules within the gel the fluorescent quantum yield of HH PTCDI remains 100 as it is dissolved in a homogeneous solution in toluene or other good organic solvents.

Molecule 1 possesses a structure that provides a good balance between the molecular stacking and the fluorescence yield of the materials thus assembled. The former prefers a molecular structure with minimal steric hindrance usually referring to a small or linear side chain while the latter favors bulky branched side chains that may distort the stacking to afford increased fluorescence by enhancing the low energy excitonic transition for the molecular assembly. shows the scanning electron microscopy SEM image of the nanofibers fabricated from molecule 1 through the vapor diffusion slow solvent exchange process as described in . The average diameter of the nanofibers was 350 nm as determined by zoom in SEM imaging as shown in .

The extended one dimensional molecular arrangement obtained for molecule 1 is likely dominated by the interaction between the perylene backbones which is sterically favored by the bare end of molecule 1 in cooperation with the hydrophobic interactions between the side chains in appropriate size. Such a molecular arrangement is reminiscent of the one dimensional self assembly commonly observed for detergents lipids or amphiphilic peptides for which extended molecular assembly can be achieved through the concerted electrostatic and hydrophobic interactions. It seems that one dimensional molecular assembly of molecule 1 is dependent on the size of the side chains. Replacing the side chain of molecule 1 with a larger group for example nonyldecyl resulted in formation of only ill shaped molecular aggregates. The nanofibers fabricated from molecule 1 demonstrates strong fluorescence with yield 15 as depicted in the fluorescence microscopy images and implying a distorted molecular stacking that is usually observed for the PTCDI molecules modified with branched side chains. The strong red fluorescence of the nanofibers can easily be observed even with the naked eye making the nanofibers more feasible to be used in qualitative fluorescence sensing. Although not essential to an understanding of the compounds an illustrative movie clip shows a demonstration of one embodiment of this compound and can be found at pubs.acs.org Supporting Information for Nano Lett. 2008 8 8 2219 2223 which article is incorporated herein by reference or www.chem.siu.edu zang image gas sensor.wmv.

The fluorescence quantum yield of molecule 1 in solution is 100 the same as other PTCDI molecules tested. Upon assembly into the solid state the fluorescence of individual molecules disappeared while a new emission band formed at a longer wavelength centered around 628 nm. Compared to the emission spectrum 0.21 eV fwhm obtained from the ill shaped molecular aggregate formed from the parent PTCDI molecule modified with two hexylheptyl side chains the emission measured for the nanofibers of molecule 1 exhibits a significantly narrower band only 0.17 eV fwhm implying the well organized molecular assembly within the nanofibers. Consistently a new pronounced band was observed at the longer wavelength in the absorption spectrum of the nanofibers which is typically characteristic of the strong interaction as observed in the self assemblies of PTCDI and other planar conjugated molecules. The strong interaction is also revealed by the characteristic enhancement of the transitions absorptions from ground state to the higher levels of electronic states 0 1 0 2 and 0 3 compared to 0 0 of the component molecules. The strong interaction may enhance the exciton migration which is now more confined along the long axis of the nanofiber leading to amplification in fluorescence quenching by the surface adsorbed analytes quenchers .

Upon fabrication from hydrophilic solvents such as alcohols the nanofibers are expected to possess a surface predominantly consisting of the anhydride moieties which are more hydrophilic compared to the hexylheptyl group located at the other end of the molecule. A surface full of anhydride moieties enables strong chemical binding or adsorption with amines through both hydrogen bonding and donor acceptor charge transfer interaction. Deposition of the nanofibers onto a substrate produces a meshlike film that is primarily formed by entangled piling of the fibers and thus possesses porosity on a number of length scales . Such a porous film not only provides increased surface area for enhanced adsorption of gaseous molecules but also enables expedient diffusion of guest molecules across the film matrix leading to efficient probing of the gaseous molecules with both high sensitivity and fast time response.

The organic compounds employed for sensing tests include methanol acetone acetic acid THF acetonitrile chloroform toluene hexane cyclohexane nitrobenzene nitromethane phenol cyclohexylamine bibutylamine aniline butylamine triethylamine hydrazine and ammonium hydroxide. All the compounds and or solvents HPLC or spectroscopic grade were purchased from Fisher or Aldrich and used as received.

UV vis absorption and fluorescence spectra were measured on a PerkinElmer Lambda 25 spectrophotometer and LS 55 fluorometer respectively. SEM measurement was performed with a Hitachi S570 microscope operated at 10 kV . The sample was prepared by casting one drop of the nanofiber suspension in hexane onto a clean glass cover slip followed by drying in air and then annealing overnight in an oven at 45 C. The dried sample was coated with gold prior to the SEM imaging. The bright field optical and fluorescence microscopy imaging was carried out with a Leica DMI4000B inverted microscope using a Rhodamine filter set which provides excitation in the range of 530 560 nm and collects emission at 580 nm.

The fluorescence quenching by amines vapor was monitored. Briefly the fluorescence spectra of the film were measured immediately after immersing inside a sealed jar 50 mL containing small amount of the amines. To prevent direct contact of the film with the amines some cotton was placed above the amines deposited at the bottom of the jar . Before use the jar was sealed for overnight to achieve saturated vapor inside. The presence of cotton also helps maintain a constant vapor pressure. The fluorescence quenching at the diluted vapor pressures of amines e.g. aniline and hydrazine was performed in a sealed cuvette 5 mL volume into which a small volume of the saturated vapor of a specific amine was injected using an air tight micro syringe to achieve the diluted vapor. For example injection of 5 L of saturated aniline vapor 880 ppm into the 5 mL cuvette will produce a vapor pressure 1000 times diluted e.g. 880 ppb. The lowest vapor pressure of aniline that can be achieved through vapor dilution was about 35 ppb for which two steps of dilution were carried out i.e. 50 L of the ambient saturated vapor of aniline was injected into a 5 mL jar immersed in a water bath ca. 70 C. to avoid minimal condensation of the vapor followed by injecting 20 L of this diluted vapor into the 5 mL cuvette.

The time dependent fluorescence quenching profile shown in was measured with an Ocean Optics USB4000 fluorometer which can be switched to the mode to measure the emission intensity at a selected wavelength as a function of time. An open sample holder Ocean Optics CUV ALL UV was used to hold the nanofibril film deposited on a glass cover slip and the fluorescence from the nanofibers was collected at 90 with respect to the excitation beam which was provided by an Ar laser Melles Griot tuned at 488 nm. Both the excitation and emission were transported with 0.6 mm premium UV Vis fibers Ocean Optics . The fluorescence quenching was carried out by blowing a few mL of saturated aniline vapor 880 ppm onto the nanofibril film during the course when the emission was continuously recorded by the fluorometer.

Indeed as shown in upon exposure to the saturated vapor of aniline 880 ppm the fluorescence of the nanofibril film was instantaneously quenched by almost 100 . Such efficient fluorescent sensing was also observed for a broad range of amines primary secondary and tertiary as listed in Table 1 above. The fluorescence quenching thus observed is due to a photoinduced electron transfer process as depicted in where the electron transfer is driven by the favorable energy difference between the HOMO of aniline and the HOMO of PTCDI which is now one electron vacant in the excited state . The high efficiency of the fluorescence quenching is consistent with the large driving force for the photoinduced electron transfer between the excited state of molecule 1 and the amine molecules and Table 1 .

To explore the detection limit for some of the representative amines such as aniline and hydrazine the same quenching process shown in was also examined for the diluted amine vapor. shows the fluorescence quenching efficiency 1 I I of a nanofibril film measured at four different vapor pressures of aniline 1 1000 10 000 and 25 000 times diluted from the saturated vapor 880 ppm at room temperature. The quenching data are well fitted to the Langmuir equation with an assumption that the quenching efficiency is proportional to the surface adsorption coverage of amines. From the fitted plot the detection limit of the nanofibril film shown in can be projected as low as 200 ppt if considering the fact that a well calibrated photodetector e.g. PMT can detect intensity change as small as 0.1 or below. Following the same procedure the detection limit for hydrazine was estimated to be 1 ppb.

The nanofibril film also demonstrated high selectivity in response to organic amines with minimal fluorescence quenching observed for other common organic reagents such as those listed in . For all the amines tested more than 85 fluorescence quenching was observed for the nanofibril film upon exposure to the saturated vapor of amines whereas all the other organic liquids and solids except for phenol examined as the potential background interference exhibited less than 3 fluorescence quenching under the same testing conditions . The significant quenching 54 observed with phenol is likely due to its strong reducing power i.e. electron donating capability.

Interestingly the fluorescence quenching observed with phenol was highly reversible as shown in without chemical reaction where the fluorescence of the nanofibril film after exposure to the phenol vapor could be recovered almost 100 simply by re exposing it to atmosphere for 60 min or at an elevated temperature e.g. 60 C. for only 5 min . The recovered film demonstrated the same quenching efficiency when used in the next cycle of the test with the phenol vapor . Such a reversible quenching can be used to distinguish phenol if present from the organic amines which otherwise exhibited almost irreversible fluorescence quenching under the same conditions i.e. only 50 of the fluorescence could be restored even after heating up the film overnight. The less reversibility observed for the quenching with amines is largely due to the much more stable chemical binding between amines and the anhydride moiety of molecule 1. Thus the reported fluorescence sensor system can be typically provided as a single use device in the similar manner as a pH paper or pregnancy kit which can be used by ordinary people without worrying about how to recover the materials after each use.

Although the fluorescence of the nanofibers cannot be recovered after exposed to the amines the PTCDI materials molecules can be recovered simply by redissolving the nano fibers into chloroform followed by appropriate purification e.g. extraction with water to remove the amines. The PTCDI molecules thus recovered showing again the 100 fluorescence quantum yield can be refabricated into the nano fibers and maintain the same sensing efficiency for amines. To this end the PTCDI materials are recyclable in contrast to the other irreversible sensor systems for which the sensor materials are usually unrecyclable due to permanent chemical damage.

This example provides a system with increased sensitivity for amines over Example 1 lower detection limit . Ultrathin nanofibers only 30 50 nm in diameter were fabricated from a perylene based molecule N 1 hexylheptyl perylene 3 4 9 10 tetracarboxyl 3 4 anhydride 9 10 imide. The ultrathin nanofibers hereby fabricated in comparison with the much larger fibers of Example 1 enables enhancement in fluorescence quenching efficiency mainly due to the increased surface area offered by the ultrathin nano fibers which in turn allows for increased vapor exposure to amines. Moreover films formed from thinner fibers possess increase porosity facilitating the expedient cross film diffusion of gaseous species and thus enhancing the collection and accumulation of the trace vapor analytes combination of which leads to unprecedented sensing sensitivity.

The ultrathin nanofibers were prepared by a quick crystallization process i.e. directly injecting a good solvent solution of the perylene monoimide into a poor solvent in a small test tube followed by aging. shows a SEM image of the nanofibers measured by a FEI NanoNova microscope demonstrating relatively uniform size and shape with diameter ranging from 30 to 50 nm. The nanofibers exhibit the same UV absorption and fluorescence emission spectra as that of the larger fibers 350 nm in diameter which was fabricated through a vapor diffusion process i.e. about 0.2 mL CHClsolution of the perylene monoimide 1.7 mM was exposed to a methanol vapor in a closed chamber for one day. The same spectral property and thus electronic structure is indicative of the same intermolecular organization for these two sizes of fibril structures despite of the different fabrication methods. This simplifies the comparative study when employing the two sizes of fibers for the vapor sensing of amines for which the fiber size will be the only major factor determining the sensing sensitivity rather than the molecular stacking mode. The same intermolecular stacking structure of the ultrathin nano fiber also yields the same fluorescence quantum yield as that of the larger fibers ca. 15 which facilitates the application in fluorescence sensing. shows a fluorescence microscopy image of a nanofibril film deposited on a glass substrate where strong red fluorescence emission of the nanofibers can easily be visually observed.

In this example aniline was chosen as the target vapor analyte mainly due to its relatively lower saturated vapor pressure 880 ppm compared to other organic amines which makes it easy to dilute the vapor down to a pressure level that matches the detection limit for the new nanofibril sensing system as described below. For example 35 ppb of aniline vapor can be simply generated by injecting 0.2 mL saturated aniline vapor into a 5 mL cuvette. This value represents the lowest vapor pressure so far produced in this lab and has been used in the test of the fluorescence quenching sensitivity of the ultrathin nanofibers. The fluorescence quenching experiments were performed by injecting the saturated aniline vapor into a sealed optical cell 5 mL with the nanofibers deposited on one inner surface. The fluorescence spectra of such a nanofibril film 0.35 mg totally deposited in the presence of different pressures of aniline vapor are shown in .

Dramatic fluorescence quenching 13 was observed for the nanofibril film after 60 s of exposure to only 35 ppb aniline vapor. As calculated considering both the molecular amount of the nanofibers and aniline vapor one aniline molecule can quench the fluorescence emission corresponding to seven building block molecules within a nanofiber i.e. the fluorescence quenching is amplified due to the one dimensional enhancement of exciton diffusion along the long axis of nanofiber. Under the same measurement condition only ca. 4 quenching was observed with the larger nanofibers 350 nm in diameter i.e. one aniline molecule can only quench two building block molecules emission. The decreased quenching efficiency is likely due to the enlarged cross section size of the fibers for which the exciton diffusion is more bulk dispersed not as confined along the long axis as expected for the ultrathin nano fibers. One dimensional confined exciton diffusion is usually conducive to enhancement of fluorescence quenching if the intermolecular energy transfer is dominant along the long axis of nanofibers. This illustrates an effective way to improve the quenching sensing efficiency simply by decreasing the size of the nanofibers which in turn increase the surface area of the nanofibril film thus deposited.

It should be noted that the real sensitivity of the nanofibril film shown in should be much higher than the measured value if taking into account the technical fact that the small volume 0.2 L of aniline vapor cannot be released completely into the cuvette due to the significant absorption in the syringe. Moreover the smaller size of nanofibers are conducive to enhancing the porosity of the film thus deposited i.e. producing a smaller pore structure but with a more bulky inter pore connection. This enhanced porosity along with the increased surface area not only facilitates the adsorption of amine vapor but also strengthen the accumulation of the amine species thus collected from the gaseous phase.

Indeed once the aniline molecules were adsorbed into the nanofibril film they usually remain condensed within the solid phase no release back to the gaseous atmosphere. This is consistent with the results presented in where the quenched fluorescence remained unchanged even 30 min after the film was exposed to 1750 ppb of aniline vapor. In contrast for the film deposited from the larger fibers diameter of 350 nm the fluorescence intensity tended to gradually increase after exposure to the same vapor pressure of aniline indicating significant release of aniline molecules back to the gaseous phase inset . The sustainable accumulation of gaseous analytes within the film matrix is crucial for enabling trace vapor sensing for which expedient and effective collection of analyte molecules from the atmosphere environment is often a defining factor for the sensing system.

Technically as small as 0.1 or below change in fluorescence emission intensity can be detected by a well calibrated photodetector e.g. PMT . Based on such a photon detection threshold one way to further improve the vapor sensing sensitivity or detection limit is to increase the signal to noise ratio. Generally the less the nanofibers are employed the less the quencher molecules are needed for the same percentage of fluorescence quenching thereby leading to enhanced sensitivity to the trace vapor analyte. However to maintain the sufficient adsorption and accumulation for the trace vapor the film deposited from a smaller amount of fibers can maintain a sufficiently high surface area and porosity. To this end ultrathin nanofibers are ideally suited for fabrication as thin films potentially using much less materials while still maintain high surface area and porosity.

In conclusion the fluorescence sensing sensitivity of perylene based nanofibril films for amine vapor was largely enhanced by decreasing the size of the nanofibers which were fabricated through a solution based self assembly processing. The enhanced fluorescence sensing is mainly due to the increased surface area and the enhanced exciton diffusion along the long axis of nanofiber along with the increased porosity intrinsic to the film deposited from the ultrathin nanofibers. The sensing efficiency or detection limit can further be enhanced by reducing the amount of the nanofibers employed in the film.

The foregoing detailed description describes the invention with reference to specific exemplary embodiments. However it will be appreciated that various modifications and changes can be made without departing from the scope of the present invention as set forth in the appended claims. The detailed description and accompanying drawings are to be regarded as merely illustrative rather than as restrictive and all such modifications or changes if any are intended to fall within the scope of the present invention as described and set forth herein.

