---

title: Survivable mobile network system
abstract: A method of establishing communication links during a failure within a mobile communications network includes detecting disruptions in communications between a plurality of base stations and a plurality of mobile terminals. Survivability components are activated within the base station and the mobile terminal to operate in a survivability mode. The survivability mode enables communications and services to be provided by the surviving base stations to mobile terminals through activated survivability components. The alternate communication links may operate for as long as a disruption exists.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09071987&OS=09071987&RS=09071987
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09071987
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20100430
---
This is a U.S. National Stage Application of International Application No. PCT CA2010 000645 entitled SURVIVABLE MOBILE NETWORK SYSTEM filed Apr. 30 2010 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates to management of a wireless communications network and more specifically to a system of maintaining communications within a network during network communication failures.

Wireless communication networks are vulnerable to disruption and loss of service due to disasters or other catastrophic failures. The disasters may include without limitation natural disasters such as floods earthquakes tornados and tsunamis or a combination of such events. The catastrophic failures may include for example without limitation destruction of base stations communication links communication networks network services or a combination of such events.

In a disaster it is urgent that emergency services be provided to the affected communities or areas as quickly as possible. Network or communication failures negatively impact the ability of an effective and immediate emergency response. For example although emergency response personnel such as without limitation police fire fighters military or rescue workers may have global terminals or other cellular mobile devices communication may be impossible because of a communication disruption or destruction of sections of the communications and services network.

It should be understood at the outset that although an illustrative implementation of one or more embodiments are provided below the description is not to be considered as limiting the scope of the embodiments described herein. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated and described herein which may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with a full scope of equivalence. It should be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration where considered appropriate the reference numerals may be repeated among the figures in the corresponding or analogous elements.

According to an illustrative embodiment a system of base stations and mobile terminals distributed within a communications network is disclosed. The system comprises a number of survivability components operatively monitoring communications within the communications network. The survivability components are located with at least one base station and a number of the survivability components perform functions of corresponding components within the communications network.

In accordance with another embodiment of the disclosure a base station of a communications network comprises survivability components that maintain operation of the base station during a failure of the communications network wherein a number of the survivability components correspond to components within the communications network that perform a same function.

In accordance with a further embodiment of the disclosure a mobile terminal of a communications network comprises a plurality of applications which when executed by a processor maintain operations in a survivability mode activated by a mobile terminal during a disruption of communications within the communications network.

In accordance with another embodiment of the disclosure a method of operating a base station comprises determining by a detector an existence of a communications failure and responsive to determining the existence of the communications failure activating by an operations controller operations of survivability components in a number of base stations within a communication network.

The present disclosure provides a wireless network survival apparatus that enable a wireless communication network to maintain functional operations even if the network is destroyed or disrupted. The wireless network survival apparatus includes components that are implemented in a mobile terminal or cellular device and base stations. The wireless network survival components referred to herein as survivability components may be integrated or designed into a mobile terminal and base station and may interact with existing hardware and software features of the mobile terminal and base station.

In embodiments of the disclosure the designation S indicates that a component is a survivability component. Additionally as used herein terminology such as surviving survivability survival with respect to telecommunications and network means the ability to operate or continue operations despite disruptions or failures in network services or communications.

The wireless network survival components may be hardware elements software applications or a combination of hardware and software elements. In the event of an emergency such as a network services or communications disruption the survivability components of the existing mobile terminals and base stations within the wireless communication network are activated to allow the continuation of wireless communications such as without limitation the transmission and reception of radio frequency signals and messages.

Turning first to a mobile wireless communications network in which an illustrative embodiment of the disclosure may operate is depicted. In these depicted examples the number of base stations and mobile terminals illustrated in mobile wireless communications network are merely exemplary and is not limited to the number illustrated. The mobile terminals may include wireless devices such as without limitation a mobile phone a smart phone a laptop computer a personal digital assistant or other such wireless mobile device as may be known to one skilled in the art.

In wireless network a plurality of base stations in communications network connect to base station controller through a wired or wireless connection. In the illustrative embodiment base station and base station are connected to base station controller by wired connections and respectively. Wired connections include but are not limited to wire cables fiber cables or other wired means known to one skilled in the art. In an embodiment the connections to base station controller may also be wireless. Base stations may also be operatively coupled to communications networks such as communications network through wired or wireless means. For example base station may communicate through a wired connection to communications network .

Base stations within the mobile wireless communications network may also be connected to each other or to the network through a wireless point to point transmission link such as back haul link created between radio links positioned on base stations such as radio link and radio link . A back haul link is a point to point radio link between base stations that enables a first base station to communicate with a second base station or other nodes within the network. In the depicted example base station communicates through back haul transmission link to base station . In an embodiment base station controller may be located within a base station of a network such as base station base station base station and base station .

Mobile wireless communications network may also include satellite ground stations such as satellite ground station that provide radio frequency transmissions to mobile terminals of the network. In an illustrative embodiment satellite ground station may transmit and receive transmissions from communications network . Satellite ground station may send and receive transmissions from a number of terminals such as terminal through a communications satellite . As used within this disclosure a number of refers to one or more items.

Mobile wireless communications network includes a number of network components that are operably coupled to the plurality base stations to enable operation of the mobile services network. For example the network components may include without limitation a mobility management entity MME a home location register HLR and visitor location register VLR an authentication center and a gateway serving node . Each network component may be connected to a communications network and a services network .

In an illustrative embodiment initial communications may be established between a base station such as base station and a mobile terminal such as terminal . Base station communicates with the network components through base station controller to enable mobile terminal to access communications network and services network . For example base station controller may enable terminal and terminal to receive and send communications over communications network to network components such as mobility management entity MME the visitor location register and home location register the authentication center and the gateway serving node . Communications network may communicate to the network components over channels or links for example without limitation channel and respectively.

For example the HLR VLR and the authentication center will identify each mobile terminal within the network and verify the services and capabilities of the mobile terminal. Base station controller may supervise or control a number of base stations within mobile wireless communications network such as without limitation base station base station and base station and enable the base stations to connect to the network components such as without limitation authentication center HLR VLR mobility management entity and the services network through communications network .

In illustrative embodiments the base stations and mobile terminals of wireless communications network include survivability components that duplicate or perform operations or functions that are similar to the functionality of the network components that correspond to the survivability components. For example base station includes survivability components base station includes survivability components base station includes survivability components and base station include survivability components .

Similarly in illustrative embodiments the mobile terminals of the wireless communications network include survivability components that may be activated in conjunction or along with the survivability components of the base stations. For example mobile terminal includes survivability component mobile terminal includes survivability component mobile terminal includes survivability component mobile terminal includes survivability component and mobile terminal includes survivability component .

The survivability components of the base station include corresponding or duplicate network components in wireless communications network . The survivability components are capable of performing the function of the network components in the wireless communications network such as without limitation the mobility management entity the home location register and visitor location register VLR HLR the authentication center and the gateway serving node .

The corresponding survivability components within each base station monitor the functions of the network components during normal operation and record and store information on the operation and operating status of the network components in wireless communications network . The mobile terminals also include survivability components that include software applications and sensing apparatus.

Turning now to a disrupted wireless communications network in which embodiments of the disclosure may operate is illustrated. In the wireless communications network of is illustrated as being disrupted according to an embodiment of the disclosure. In this illustrative example mobile wireless communications network may have communication disruptions network services disruptions or a combination of networks services disruption and communication disruptions.

In other embodiments connections between components may be disrupted or the component itself may be disrupted. In these depicted examples of a mobile wireless communications network such as mobile wireless communications network network services disruption and communications disruptions that prevent communications may exist at various points within the network. The network services disruption and communication disruptions negatively impact the external communications of base stations components and networks and prevent communication among mobile terminals and base stations.

The disruptions of service within mobile wireless communications network may include disruptions that affect network services such as without limitation disruptions to base station disruption within a communications network disruption of a services network disruption between gateway serving node and communications network and disruption between gateway serving node and services network . In the illustrative embodiment a base station or base station component may be affected by a disruption such as disruption to base station even though a communication channel or link to the base station from an existing base station controller such as communication channel to base station controller remains unaffected communication channel or link may Disruptions may also occur between connections to the base station controller such as network disruption . Network services disruptions may also include disruptions to network components such as disruption to network component mobility management entity MME and disruption network components Home Location Register Visitor Location Register HLR VLR .

The disruptions of service within mobile wireless communications network may also include disruptions that affect communications or radio frequency transmissions. The communication

disruptions within a network may include for example without limitation communication disruption between base station controller and base station and communication disruption on a communication channel or link between communications network and base station .

In this illustrative example each base station included survivability components that incorporate the capabilities and functions that may exist in the network components of wireless communications network . In the illustrative embodiment for example base station base station base station and base station may include a subset of the functions provided by the mobility management entity MME the visitor home location registers VLR HLR the authentication center and the gateway serving node .

The survivability components within the base stations such as survivability components in base station survivability components in base station survivability components in base station and survivability components in base station are configured to monitor the operations of the network components during normal operations of the wireless communications network .

Disruptions to network services or communications in mobile wireless communications network may result in a number of areas in the wireless communications network and a number of network components becoming disabled or non functional. A communication or network disruption within the wireless communications network activates survivability components within surviving base stations such as survivability components in base station survivability components in base station and survivability components in base station to establish or reestablish communications.

The mobile terminals and include survivability components and respectively that are configured to activate when the communications network is disrupted. The survivability components may be implemented as software applications firmware hardware or a combination of hardware and software applications.

In the illustrative examples the survivability components and of mobile terminals and may be activated by a base station such as base station and in mobile wireless communications network . Alternatively mobile terminals and may be configured to detect disruptions within the network without any indication from a base station.

The illustrations of and are not meant to imply physical or architectural limitations to the manner in which different embodiments may be implemented. Other components in addition to or in place of the components illustrated may be implemented in a specific communications network. Additionally some components may be unnecessary in some embodiments. For example some communication networks may include a plurality of base stations and a plurality of mobile terminals. Other communications networks may include a single base station. Other communication network may not include mobile terminals. Additionally in other illustrative embodiments for example satellite ground station and communications satellite may not be included.

Turning now to a detailed diagram of a base station is shown according to an illustrative embodiment of the disclosure. In the functionality of the network components required to continue communication within a disrupted communications network such as network in is illustrated.

In diagram base station includes a plurality of communication components that enable base station to accept process and deliver communications within a wireless communications network such as wireless communications network of .

The communication components may include without limitation radio receivers and transmitters network communications apparatus base station manager power supply and external network connections . Radio transmitters and receivers send and receive radio signals amplify them and control the operation of the radio signals based on the protocol of the terminals in a particular network.

Radio transmitters and receivers and network communications apparatus are coupled to a base station manager . Base station manager supervises the operation of base station including the radio transmitters and receivers and the network communications apparatus . A local power network may become unavailable in the event of a disruption such as a network services disruption or communications disruption as depicted in .

Power supply provides power to operate base station . Power supply is configured to provide power to base station from a local power network not shown when available. Power supply may continue to provide power to base station using a battery a generator set a renewable power station or a combination of these power sources when a local power network is not available. External network connections of base station allow the base station to interface with external devices.

The communication components also include survivability mode components . During the normal operation of base station survivability mode components monitors or shadows the operation of the corresponding components in the wireless communications network and store information about the processing of the components the operation of the components and the status of the components.

In the event of a disruption such as a communications disruption or network services disruption as depicted in the information stored in the survivability components is enabled or activated to maintain communications activity and services within the coverage area of the surviving base station. In embodiments of this disclosure a surviving base station is a base station that is operative to receive and transmit radio waves during emergencies or after a communication disruption has occurred.

 Turning now to a detailed block diagram of the survivability mode components of a base station according to an illustrative embodiment of the disclosure is depicted. The survivability components of base station may feature components included in survivability components of .

Base station includes communications components comprising radio transmitters and receivers and network communications apparatus that are coupled to a base station manager . Base station manager supervises the operation of base station including the radio transmitters and receivers and the network communications apparatus .

Power supply provides power to operate of base station in cases where a local power network becomes unavailable in the event of a disruption such as a network services disruption or communications disruption as depicted in .

Survivability components are configured to work within the base station. In these depicted examples survivability components are listed as individual elements. However survivability components may also be implemented as software processes cooperating within a processor of a base station manager such as base station manager .

During the normal operation base station the survivability mode components shadow or record functions in the corresponding network elements and store information about their process operation and status. Detector monitors external network connections and the communication activities of mobile terminals within a communications network to determine whether a disruption exists within the communications network such as communications network of and communications network of . Detector may detect a disruption of the communications network from information received on for example without limitation the failure of a communications link to external network connections disruptions within the communications network provided by mobile terminals or an operations failure by the base station manager .

The detection of a disruption by detector enables detector to activate or enable operations of the base station in a survivability mode to facilitate continued communication operations with local mobile terminals surviving base stations and surviving network components within the communications network.

In survivability mode detector activates operations controller . Operations controller implements processes to manage the continued operation of a base station in survivability mode. In survivability mode operations controller may operate with base station manager to operate base station . Base station manager supervises the operation of base station including the radio transmitters and receivers connected to antennas within the antenna tower of base station .

Detector enables operations controller to operate base station manager and survivability components in an active or survivability mode. Detector is also operative to restore normal base station operations and place the survivability components in a monitoring or passive mode.

S Radio link may be activated in a survivability mode to enable communication traffic between other operational or surviving base stations or nodes in surviving networks. S radio link may include signaling and traffic channels. Detector and operations controller activate S Radio link to enable network services and communications to be provided across and within network areas of base stations. S Radio link may use the same communication channels as mobile terminals to enable a base station to communicate with other base stations in a manner similar to mobile to mobile terminal communications. For example a base station with an S Radio link is enabled to receive and transmit radio frequency signals from another base station.

Radio network controller may be activated or enabled by operations controller and detector operating in survivability mode. Radio network controller operates with mobility and location controller to manage the connections of mobile terminals within a base station coverage area. Radio network controller operations may include supervising the transfer of communications between surviving base stations as a mobile station moves or transitions between coverage areas from a first surviving base station within a first coverage area of radio network controller and a second surviving base station within a second coverage area of radio network controller .

Radio network controller may also provide warnings or alerts to mobile terminals as a mobile terminal moves or transitions to the limit or edge of a base station coverage area that is supervised by radio network controller . The warnings may be formatted as for example without limitation pre recorded speech announcement re order tones or text messages.

Radio network controller together or in cooperation with mobility management entity contain resources and processes to permit the planning and routing of call and communications traffic among the mobile terminals in a communications coverage area routing to other communication network sites and communication relays between terminals that are equipped. Radio network controller and mobility management entity also include the ability to provide information on mobile terminals in geographic locations that are available for network services and network services that may be available in a particular geographic region.

The authenticator component monitors authentication processes of its corresponding component in the communication network such as authentication center during normal operations. The authentication and authorization processes may include for example without limitation back up keys and processes encryption algorithms and security policies. Authenticator stores all relevant parameters during normal operations of the base station.

Authenticator may be activated into survivability mode by detector in a network disruption. In survivability mode authenticator provides authentication and authorization processes for mobile terminals in a surviving area. A surviving area is a geographical or coverage area of the surviving base stations that are operating in survivability mode. In survivability mode the back up keys and processes will enable mobile terminals from different networks to be operated together and additionally enables the provision of additional emergency services to groups of terminals. In some embodiments authenticator may not be required as a base station may operate with minimal or no authentication and encryption of radio traffic. In these embodiments mobile terminals may rely on their own individual encryptions and authentication for security.

The visitor location register and home location register may also be activated by detector in a disrupted network. Visitor location register and home location register HLR VLR and mobility management entity MME duplicate the function of corresponding components such as MME and HLR VLR in mobile wireless communications network . Visitor location register and home location register provide continued identification and service subscriptions of the terminals within the coverage area of a base station. The visitor location register and home location register may be preconfigured or preloaded with information that enables authentication and management of the mobile terminals in survivability mode. The visitor location register and home location register and mobility management entity MME maintain a register of terminals in a base station s area to facilitate communication among terminals.

The visitor location register and home location register may also contain information on the location of mobile terminals in the area of a base station that was previously recorded or cached from corresponding network components such as MME and HLR VLR previously operating in normal mode. The previously recorded and cached information enable the continued identification of mobile terminals within the communications networks including mobile terminals that may be switched off or inactive at the time the network is disrupted.

In an embodiment a number of base stations may be available. Visitor location register VLR and home location register HLR exchange information with the available base stations and their VLR HLR and MME components to enable existing terminals to be located within the surviving group of base stations. Visitor location register and home location register may also translate phone numbers to forward to local terminals and services. For example visitor location register and home location register may translate emergency contact numbers to appropriate locally available facilities or provide appropriate message responses such as out of service announcements and message exchanges.

Locator provides location services to supplement the location capabilities of the mobile network which include without limitation processing services for mobile terminals that require processing by a network of location measurements such as without limitation Global Positioning System satellite signals. Locator may also provide additional transmissions and processing facilities to enable the transmissions from the base station to be used for location services processed by the mobile terminals or by the base station itself or in cooperation with other available or operating base stations. In the event that radio signals from location services are no longer available the locator may be equipped to provide replacement signals for some location services. This may include for example without limitation supplemental land based or terrestrial signals for the satellite location services or other completely land based location techniques that may be recognized by one skilled in the art.

Storage server during normal operations of base station maintains a cache or storage of recent local communications traffic and information on applications that are being used throughout a network. Storage server captures and updates this information during normal operation from its corresponding server components in the communications network such as gateway serving node .

During a disruption or network outage storage server is activated by the operations controller to function as a local server. The information in storage server may be accessed using protocols and addresses similar to the protocols and addresses being used when the network was available. In addition the storage server may be preloaded with information that may be used in the local area of the base station to continue network operations. For example storage server may contain information or resources including without limitation maps infrastructure plans addresses repair manuals and other such information that may be useful during an emergency.

Communications controller may be configured to provide visual aid or views to terminals during a network disruption. The communications controller may additionally initiate specialized services such as broadcast information voice and data channels that enable terminals within the network to communicate. For example communications controller may facilitate the formation and operation of groups of terminals in sharing information voice communications and other services.

Communications controller may also designate radio channels for peer to peer communications for terminals capable of establishing such links. In the peer to peer mode a base station may provide through a radio network controller and a Visitor location register and home location register suitable identification and addressing codes for terminals to identify each other and for allocation and supervision of peer to peer channels.

S Radio controller enables communication services to be continued and extended over areas in which base stations exist within a network after a disruption. S Radio controller may be used together with S Radio link by detector to determine the extent of a disruption within a communications network. For example the disruption may be a local communications or network failure of a single base station within a communications network or it may be a global failure affecting a plurality of base stations. Detector may operate S Radio controller and S Radio link to determine the existence and operating status of other base stations in the network and whether the base stations are operating in a survivability mode or are not affected by any network or communications disruptions.

S Radio controller may also contain apparatus that facilitates the radio transmitters and receivers to utilize the same radio channels as mobile terminals within the network to enable a base station to communicate with other base stations. The S Radio controller may also enable communication with other base stations or network nodes using the S Radio link .

External network connections interface with external network facilities and components. External network connections may be monitored by detector to determine whether the network components are disrupted and whether the base station should enter survivability mode. Detector also monitors the network to determine whether network communications are restored and enables the base station to be returned to normal operations and the operations of the survivability mode components to be discontinued.

Turning now to a block diagram of mobile terminal is illustrated according to an illustrative embodiment of the disclosure. Mobile terminal may be equipped with terminal survivability mode applications that may be activated during a services or communications disruption.

Mobile terminal includes components that may be present in a mobile terminal such as without limitation radio frequency transceivers a display microphone speaker keyboard and an interface . Mobile terminal may also include local external interfaces communication processing terminal application processes and a power supply . Mobile terminal may be preloaded with terminal survivability mode applications to enable the mobile terminal to activate a survivability or emergency mode during a disruption of communications.

For example in an embodiment the survivability mode applications may be activated through a flag or other indicator received from a base station that indicates that communications services are disrupted or unavailable. In another embodiment the terminal survivability mode applications may be activated through communication of a parameter sent over a network such as an access channel response message.

Terminal survivability mode applications may include a number of different applications such as without limitation alternate identification terminal end to end applications radio frequency scanning mode displays mode conservation operation traffic throttling environmental sampling and environmental sensors .

The alternate identification may interpret broadcast signaling from a base station and enable the survivability functions. Alternate identification allows the mobile terminal to maintain an additional identity that may be authenticated by another mobile terminal or a base station within a communications network. The additional identity may include without limitation the terminal name the terminal affiliation for example ambulance federal emergency management agency and the terminal user function such as medic electrician police fire or other such functions.

In terminal end to end applications a number of mobile terminals may communicate with each other within a communications network or directly with each other. Terminal end to end applications may enable the receiving and sending of information and packets among a plurality of mobile terminals. For example three way or multiple way communications may be enabled. Additionally for example text messages may be exchanged among devices or terminals within a coverage area during a disruption.

Radio frequency scanning may enable the mobile terminal to scan its local area to determine the existence of surviving base stations. The information obtained through the scan may include without limitation the mode of operation of the base stations for example whether the base stations are operating in energy savings mode or on battery power. This information would then be communicated to a user to enable manual selection with the base station that is active. The information may also be communicated to operational base stations that are minimally disrupted or unaffected by the communications disruption to assist in re forming islands of coverage channel assignments and routing of traffic.

Mode displays will provide some displays to the terminal user to indicate the operating mode of a terminal. For example in a conservations operation mode a mobile terminal may be operated in a mode in which it conserves power for itself and also for a base station. For example if a terminal is operated in a power saving mode it may reduce the amount of signaling to a base station which would result in a conservation of power. In addition the terminal may provide a display that provides information regarding the terminal base station or network being operated in survivability mode.

Traffic throttling controls the amount of network traffic that may be used in a survival mode to prevent the surviving components in a network from becoming overloaded. Environmental sampling enables environmental sensors to sense environmental conditions or qualities such as pressure air temperature weather conditions air quality or other similar environmental conditions that may be recognized by one skilled in the art. The information from these sensors may be sent to other terminals or survivability components in the surviving network and used to assist in the management and recovery from the disruptions.

Turning now to which comprises partial view and flowchart illustrates the top level operations of a base station operating in normal and a survivability mode according to an embodiment of the disclosure.

The operations begin in the monitoring wait state wherein the base station monitors base station communications at block . At block it is determined whether a network disruption exists. A network disruption may include without limitation network services disruptions and communication disruptions. Survivability mode components within a base station may continue to shadow and record operations of corresponding components within a network in the absence of a communication network disruption.

The survivability mode component caches information on network communications and traffic at block and continues to monitor base station communications at block to detect the existence of a communications network disruption. The detection of a communications network disruption at block results in the initiation of base station survivability mode operations at block . The activation of base station survivability mode operations at block enables a number of operations to be activated to maintain communications within a network.

For example at a block the operations controller may initiate a broadcast signaling that indicates that a base station is in survivability mode. At a block the operations controller may initiate communications using radio transceivers and radio links. At a block call traffic may be handled by survivability mode components including without limitation radio network controller visitor home location register mobility management entity and the authenticator. At a block storage server may provide information previously cached or stored regarding local services. At a block communications controller may enable the establishment of communication links to provide local communications. At a block locator may provide information that assists in locating mobile terminals in the area of the base station.

The survivability components continue to monitor the network to detect continuing disruptions at a block . At a block it is determined whether normal operations of the network are restored. The restoration of the normal operations ends the survivability mode at a block . The survivability components may store or cache network information at a block and return to shadow or monitor normal base station communications at block .

Turning now to which comprises partial view and flowchart illustrates top level operations of a terminal in survivability mode according to an embodiment of the disclosure.

The operation begins by monitoring base station communications at a block . At a block it is determined whether a network disruption exists. The terminal continues to monitor base station communication at a block in the absence of any network disruptions or network failures. The existence of network disruptions at a block results in the initiation of a survivability mode for a terminal at a block .

Terminal survivability mode is initiated at a block . The survivability mode includes without limitation the activation of alternate identification at a block that enable the terminal to be identified by a base station. The survivability displays at block may indicate that the terminal and the network are operating in survivability mode. The survivability mode may also include radio frequency scanning of available radio links and other base stations at block . The terminal activities may also include traffic throttling at block which enable the terminal to reduce the rate at which the terminal communicates with a base station. Additional activities may include the activation of end to end application at a block environmental sampling and reports .

The terminal survivability applications continue to monitor information received from base stations about continuing disruptions in the network at a block . At a block it is determined whether normal operations of the network are restored. The restoration of the normal operations ends the terminal survivability mode at a block . In normal operation the terminal survivability applications returns to the monitoring of base station communications at block .

Survivability mode conservation operations may be initiated to save power and radio resources in the mobile terminal and in its interaction with the base station. Radio resources may include without limitation time frequency and radio frequency RF power within a particular radio frequency spectrum.

Survivability mode conservation operations may include for example longer sleep cycles shortened broadcast signaling and reduced radio access technology format types. In expanding coverage mobile terminals in a survivability mode may support extended range operations through for example without limitation additional power in radio frequency signal transmissions lower transmission rates higher coding formats alternate antenna configurations and smaller orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM tile sizes or time division multiple access TDMA frames. This may also include operating the radio access technology with a reduced set of features. For example instead of operating in a complex Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS mode the radio access technology may operate in a Global System for Mobile GSM communication mode.

The mobile terminal and the base station may also coordinate their transmissions to reduce interference between mobile network systems. Reducing interference between mobile network systems increases the range of the mobile terminals that are operating in survivability mode by limiting usage and reducing traffic within a communications network. The resources of the mobile terminal in survivability mode may also be conserved by enabling device to device communications among mobile terminals that are operational and capable of device to device communications and that are within signal range of another mobile terminal.

Referring now to a block diagram of a mobile terminal is illustrated according to an illustrative embodiment of the disclosure. Mobile terminal may be a mobile wireless communication device such as a mobile cellular device that may function as a smart terminal such as smart terminal in . Mobile terminal may be configured to implement features of the disclosure such as the terminal survivability mode applications as depicted in .

Examples of applicable communication devices include pagers mobile cellular phones cellular smart phones wireless organizers personal digital assistants computers laptops handheld wireless communication devices wirelessly enabled notebook computers and such other communication devices.

Mobile terminal includes communication elements in communication subsystem that may be configured to perform radio frequency communications through antenna system . Antenna system may include a plurality of antennas for simultaneous radio frequency signal transmission or reception.

The mobile terminal is a two way communication device with advanced data communication capabilities including the capability to communicate with other mobile devices computer systems assistants through a network of transceivers. In mobile terminal includes a number of components similar to the components described in mobile terminal of . The components include for example without limitation main processor that controls the overall operation of mobile terminal . Communication functions are performed through communication subsystem . Communication subsystem receives messages from and sends messages across wireless link to wireless network .

Communications subsystem provides communication between the mobile device and different systems or devices such as antenna system without the use of the wireless network . For example communications subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components for short range communication. Examples of short range communication standards include standards developed by the Infrared Data Association IrDA Bluetooth and the 802.1 1 family of standards developed by Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE . Short range communications may include for example without limitation radio frequency signals within a 2.4 GHz band or a 5.8 GHz band.

In this illustrative embodiment of the mobile terminal the communication subsystem is configured in accordance with the Global System for Mobile Communication GSM and General Packet Radio Services GPRS standards. The GSM GPRS wireless network is used worldwide and it is expected that these standards will be superseded eventually by for example without limitation Evolved Enhanced Data GSM Environment EEDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications Service UMTS High Speed Packet Access HSPA Long Term Evolution LTE and other standards applicable to multiple input multiple output technology. New standards are still being defined but it is believed that they will have similarities to the network behavior described herein and it will also be understood by persons skilled in the art that the embodiments described herein are intended to use any other suitable standards that are developed in the future.

The wireless link connecting the communication subsystem with wireless network represents one or more different radio frequency RF channels operating according to defined protocols specified for GSM GPRS communications. With newer network protocols these channels are capable of supporting both circuit switched voice communications and packet switched data communications.

Although the wireless network associated with mobile terminal may be a GSM GPRS EDGE wireless network in one illustrative implementation other wireless networks may also be associated with the mobile terminal in variant implementations. Examples of these networks include but are not limited to Code Division Multiple Access CDMA or CDMA2000 networks GSM GPRS EDGE networks as mentioned above third generation 3G networks such as UMTS HSPA and also future fourth generation 4G networks such as such as LTE and Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMax .

Main processor also interacts with additional subsystems such as Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory a display an auxiliary input output I O subsystem a data port a keyboard a speaker a microphone and other device subsystems .

Some of the subsystems of the mobile terminal perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions. By way of example the display and the keyboard may be used to provide both communication related functions such as entering a text message for transmission over the network and device resident functions such as a calculator and or task list.

The mobile terminal can send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Network access is associated with a subscriber or user of the mobile terminal . To identify a subscriber the mobile terminal requires a Subscriber Identity Module or a Removable User Identity Module SIM RUIM module to be inserted into a SIM RUIM interface in order to communicate with a network. The SIM RUIM module is one type of a conventional smart card that can be used to identify a subscriber of the mobile terminal and to personalize the mobile terminal among other things. Without the SIM RUIM module the mobile terminal is not fully operational to communicate with the wireless network .

By inserting the SIM RUIM module into the SIM RUIM interface a subscriber can access all subscribed services. Services may include web browsing and messaging such as e mail voice mail Short Message Service SMS and Multimedia Messaging Services MMS . More advanced services may include point of sale field service and sales force automation. The SIM RUIM module includes a processor and memory to storeinformation. Once the SIM RUIM module is inserted into the SIM RUIM interface it is coupled to main processor . In order to identify the subscriber the SIM RUIM module can include some user parameters such as an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

A feature of using the SIM RUIM module is that a subscriber is not necessarily bound by any single physical mobile terminal. The SIM RUIM module may store additional subscriber information for a mobile terminal as well including various personal information such as for example a datebook or calendar information and recent call information. Alternatively user identification information can also be programmed into the flash memory .

The mobile terminal is a battery powered device and includes a battery interface to receive one or more rechargeable batteries . In at least some embodiments the battery can be a smart battery with an embedded microprocessor. The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which assists the battery in providing power V to the mobile terminal . Although current technology makes use of a battery future technologies such as micro fuel cells may provide the power to the mobile terminal .

The mobile terminal also includes an operating system and software components to which are described in more detail below. The operating system and the software components to that are executed by main processor are typically stored in a persistent store such as the flash memory which may alternatively be a read only memory ROM or similar storage element not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that portions of the operating system and the software components to such as specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as the RAM . Other software components can also be included as is well known to those skilled in the art.

The subset of software applications that control basic device operations including data voice communication applications antenna system and communication subsystem applications will normally be installed on the mobile terminal during its manufacture. Other software applications include a message application that can be any suitable software program that allows a user of the mobile terminal to send and receive electronic messages.

Various alternatives exist for the message application as is well known to those skilled in the art. Messages that have been sent or received by the user are typically stored in the flash memory of the mobile terminal or some other suitable storage element in the mobile terminal . In at least some embodiments some of the sent and received messages may be stored remotely from the device such as in a data store of an associated host system with which the mobile terminal communicates.

The software applications can further include a device state module a Personal Information Manager PIM and other suitable modules not shown . The device state module provides persistence which means that the device state module ensures that important device data is stored in persistent memory such as the flash memory so that the data is not lost when the mobile terminal is turned off or loses power. 00115 The PIM includes functionality to organize and manage data items of interest to the user such as but not limited to e mail contacts calendar events voice mails appointments and task items. A PIM application has the ability to send and receive data items via the wireless network . PIM data items may be seamlessly integrated synchronized and updated via the wireless network with the mobile terminal subscriber s corresponding data items stored or associated with a host computer system. This functionality creates a mirrored host computer on the mobile terminal with respect to such items which may be applicable when the host computer system is the mobile terminal subscriber s office computer system.

The mobile terminal also includes a connect module and an information technology IT policy module . The connect module implements the communication protocols that are required for the mobile terminal to communicate with the wireless infrastructure and any host system such as an enterprise system with which the mobile terminal is authorized to interface.

The connect module includes a set of application programming interfaces APIs that can be integrated with the mobile terminal to allow the mobile terminal to use any number of services associated with the enterprise system. The connect module allows the mobile terminal to establish an end to end secure authenticated communication pipe with the host system. A subset of applications for which access is provided by the connect module can be used to pass IT policy commands from the host system to the mobile terminal . This can be done in a wireless or wired manner. These instructions can then be passed to the IT policy module to modify the configuration of the device . Alternatively in some cases the IT policy update can also be done over a wired connection.

The IT policy module receives IT policy data that encodes the IT policy. The IT policy module then ensures that the IT policy data is authenticated by the mobile terminal . The IT policy data can then be stored in the flash memory in its native form. After the IT policy data is stored a global notification can be sent by the IT policy module to all of the applications residing on the mobile terminal . Applications for which the IT policy may be applicable then respond by reading the IT policy data to look for IT policy rules that are applicable.

The Terminal Survivability Application module monitors the network communications through the communications subsystem and initiates and terminates the terminal survivability mode and the functions of the survivability components such as those described with reference to and .

Other types of software applications can also be installed on the mobile terminal . These software applications can be third party applications which are added after the manufacture of the mobile terminal . Examples of third party applications include games calculators utilities and other similar applications know to one skilled in the art.

The additional applications can be loaded onto the mobile terminal through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the communication subsystem or any other suitable device subsystem . This flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the mobile terminal and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications may enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using the mobile terminal .

The data port enables a subscriber to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the mobile terminal by providing information or software downloads to the mobile terminal other than through a wireless communication network. The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the mobile terminal through a direct and thus reliable and trusted connection to provide secure device communication.

The data port may be any suitable port that enables data communication between the mobile terminal and another computing device. The data port may be a serial or a parallel port. In some instances the data port may be a USB port that includes data lines for data transfer and a supply line that can provide a charging current to charge the battery of the mobile terminal .

In operation a received signal such as a text message an e mail message or web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to main processor . Main processor will then process the received signal for output to the display or alternatively to the auxiliary I O subsystem . A subscriber may also compose data items such as e mail messages for example using the keyboard in conjunction with the display and possibly the auxiliary I O subsystem .

The auxiliary I O subsystem may include devices such as a touch screen mouse track ball infrared fingerprint detector or a roller wheel with dynamic button pressing capability. The keyboard is preferably an alphanumeric keyboard together with or without a telephone type keypad. However other types of keyboards may also be used. A composed data item may be transmitted over the wireless network through the communication subsystem .

With respect to voice communications the overall operation of the mobile terminal is substantially similar except that the received signals are output to the speaker and signals for transmission are generated by the microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem can also be implemented on the mobile terminal . Although voice or audio signal output is accomplished primarily through the speaker the display can also be used to provide additional information such as the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein. The embodiment or embodiments selected are chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the embodiments the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure of various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

The processes disclosed herein may be implemented by a computer implemented process in which a different illustrated action may take the form of program code embodied on a computer recordable storage medium or device for execution by a controller or processor unit such as a communications processor . The recordable storage medium or device may be for example semiconductor memory EPROM a hard disk drive a flash drive a solid state disk drive a floppy disk a CD ROM DVD ROM or some other mechanical storage device. The substantive programs that control basic device operations including data and voice communication applications will normally be installed on a mobile terminal during manufacture but may also be installed or updated after deployment.

Also techniques systems and subsystems described and illustrated in the various embodiments as discreet or separate may be combined or integrated with other systems modules or techniques without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Other items shown or discussed as coupled or directly coupled or in communication with each other may be indirectly coupled or communicated through some other interface device or intermediate component whether electrically mechanically or otherwise. Other examples of changes substitution and alterations are ascertainable by one skilled in the art and could be made without departing from the spirit and scope disclosed herein.

