---

title: Method and system for implementing link adaptation based on an application profile
abstract: A method comprising establishing a wireless link with at least one endpoint. The wireless link comprises at least one connection. The method also includes determining an application profile associated with a first connection of the wireless link. The method further includes dynamically selecting at least one parameter for the wireless link based on the detected application profile.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09030961&OS=09030961&RS=09030961
owner: Fujitsu Limited
number: 09030961
owner_city: Kawasaki-shi
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20100315
---
The present invention relates generally to wireless networks and more particularly to methods and systems for implementing link adaptation based on an application profile.

Cellular networks are undergoing a shift from being purely voice centric to a mixture of voice and data in third generation 3G systems and beyond. The networks are also evolving into more packet based wireless broadband access networks WBANs . The WBANs are designed to support voice data and multi media applications. These applications have varying requirements for the delay budgets packet loss error rates and priority sometimes referred to as the quality of service QOS requirements.

Multiple Input Multiple Output MIMO or multiple antenna technology is one of the technologies proposed to be used in fourth generation 4G wireless systems. MIMO technology can improve the reliability of the underlying wireless channel or increase the spectral efficiency using different configurations. For example spatial multiplexing SM can be used to increase spectral efficiency by transmitting multiple parallel streams of data from multiple antennas while diversity techniques such as Space Time Block Codes STBC or Space Frequency Block Codes SFBC can be used to increase the channel reliability by intelligent coding across space and time or frequency respectively. Similarly various modulation and channel coding scheme MCS levels can be used to obtain a tradeoff between reliability and spectral efficiency.

Hybrid automatic repeat request HARQ is another technology used in 4G systems to obtain reliable transmissions. However an increase in the number of re transmissions by HARQ leads to larger delays.

The teachings of the present disclosure relate to a method comprising establishing a wireless link with at least one endpoint. The wireless link comprises at least one connection. The method also includes determining an application profile associated with a first connection of the wireless link. The method further includes dynamically selecting at least one parameter for the wireless link based on the detected application profile.

Technical advantages of particular embodiments may include dynamically selecting a suitable combination of MIMO scheme and MCS level to be used with a wireless connection. Another technical advantage of particular embodiments is to adjust the selected combination of MIMO scheme and MCS level over the lifetime of the wireless link in response to changing conditions of the wireless link. Other technical advantages will be readily apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art from the following figures descriptions and claims. Moreover while specific advantages have been enumerated above various embodiments may include all some or none of the enumerated advantages.

In particular embodiments based on the available information an endpoint such as endpoint may choose a suitable combination of MIMO scheme and MCS level to be used for the link. The choice may then be transmitted as a recommendation to a base station such as base station via a feedback control channel. In some embodiments endpoint may transmit the underlying information directly to base station without making a recommendation. The information sent from endpoint may aid base station in making its own choice as to a suitable combination of MIMO scheme and MCS level.

Regardless of the technique used to make the decision the decision may be crafted to satisfy the Quality of Service QoS requirements e.g. delay and error tolerance for the specific application being run by endpoint the relative mobility of endpoint or a combination of the application and mobility of endpoint . Moreover the decision may in certain embodiments also account for what is best for the network e.g. what is the most efficient use of resources .

In some embodiments base station may consider additional information in making a decision for the configuration of a particular link. For example base station may distribute its transmission resources to satisfy the requirements of several different endpoints.

Each network may be any of a variety of communication networks designed to facilitate one or more different services either independently or in conjunction with other networks. For example networks may facilitate internet access online gaming file sharing peer to peer file sharing P2P voice over internet protocol VoIP calls video over IP calls or any other type of functionality that may be provided by a network. Networks may provide their respective services using any of a variety of protocols for either wired or wireless communication. For example network may comprise any one of a variety of different wireless technologies such as 3G 802.16 popularly known as WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE LTE Advance LTE A or any other wireless technology that supports the use of MIMO technology.

Although communication system includes four different types of networks networks the term network should be interpreted as generally defining any network or combination of networks capable of transmitting analog or digital signals data and or messages including signals data or messages transmitted through WebPages e mail text chat voice over IP VoIP and instant messaging. Depending on the scope size and or configuration of the network any one of networks may be implemented as a LAN WAN MAN PSTN WiMAX network LTE network LTE A network global distributed network such as the Internet Intranet Extranet or any other form of wireless or wired networking.

Networks may be connected to each other and with other networks via a plurality of wired links wireless links and nodes . The interconnection of networks may enable endpoints to communicate data and control signaling between each other as well as allowing any intermediary components or devices to communicate data and control signals. Accordingly users of endpoints may be able to send and receive data and control signals between and among each network component coupled to one or more of networks . For purposes of illustration and simplicity of explanation network is a MAN that may be implemented at least in part via a 4G networking standard network is a PSTN network is a LAN and network is a WAN.

In some embodiments wireless links of network may comprise an uplink and a downlink. The uplink and downlink may comprise numerous wireless connections e.g. each application running on an endpoint may have its own connection via the wireless link . In particular embodiments wireless links may be using for example WiMAX or LTE A. A wireless connection or link may comprise various wireless resources such as for example a combination of a particular center frequency a particular bandwidth a particular time slot and or a particular subchannel for example as described in a downlink or uplink MAP . In addition external factors such as distance interference mobility and obstructions may change the characteristics of a signal.

Nodes may include any combination of network components modems session border controllers gatekeepers ISN gateways WSN gateways security gateways operation administration maintenance and provisioning OAM P servers network access provider NAP servers base stations conference bridges routers hubs switches gateways endpoints or any other hardware encoded software or embedded logic implementing any number of communication protocols that allow for the exchange of packets in communication system . For example node may comprise a gateway. This may allow network a PSTN network to be able to transmit and receive communications from other non PSTN networks such as network an IP network. As a gateway node may work to translate communications between the various protocols used by different networks.

Endpoints may comprise any type of endpoint able to wirelessly send and receive data and or signals to and from base station . Endpoints may provide data or network services to a user through any combination of hardware encoded software embedded in a computer readable medium and or encoded logic incorporated in hardware or otherwise stored e.g. firmware . For example endpoints may include an IP telephone a computer a laptop a video monitor a camera a personal data assistant a cell phone a smart phone or any other hardware encoded software and or encoded logic that supports the communication of packets or frames using networks . Endpoints may also include unattended or automated systems gateways other intermediate components or other devices that can send or receive data and or signals.

Within wireless network each of endpoints are connected to one of base station or relay station . For simplicity the component to which an endpoint is connected may generally be referred to as an access station. For example the access station for endpoint is relay station

Although illustrates a particular number and configuration of endpoints connections links and nodes communication system contemplates any number or arrangement of such components for communicating data. For example communication system may contain fewer or more networks . Furthermore the interconnections between networks may vary from those depicted in . In addition elements of communication system may include components centrally located local with respect to one another or distributed throughout communication system .

Each endpoint and access station may be thought of as separate computer systems. Depending on the scenario configuration and or embodiment endpoints and or access station may include one or more portions of one or more computer systems. In particular embodiments one or more of these computer systems may perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments one or more computer systems may provide functionality described or illustrated herein. In particular embodiments encoded software running on one or more computer systems may perform one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein or provides functionality described or illustrated herein.

The components of endpoints and or access station may take any suitable physical form and they may be arranged in any suitable fashion. For simplicity only the components of access station are discussed in detail. However depending on the embodiment and configuration endpoints may comprise any suitable number type and or layout of the components discussed with respect to access station .

As example and not by way of limitation access station may be an embedded computer system a system on chip SOC a single board computer system SBC such as for example a computer on module COM or system on module SOM a desktop computer system a laptop or notebook computer system an interactive kiosk a mainframe a mesh of computer systems a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a server or a combination of two or more of these.

Where appropriate access station may include one or more computer systems be unitary or distributed span multiple locations span multiple machines or reside in a cloud which may include one or more cloud components in one or more networks. Where appropriate access station may perform without substantial spatial or temporal limitation one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. As an example and not by way of limitation access station may perform in real time or in batch mode one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein. One or more access stations or endpoints may perform at different times or at different locations one or more steps of one or more methods described or illustrated herein where appropriate.

In particular embodiments access station includes processor memory storage input output I O interface communication interface and bus . These components may work together in order to provide wireless networking functionality such as providing dynamic link adaptation based on an application profile and mobility characteristic associated with a wireless link. Although a particular access station is depicted having a particular number of particular components in a particular arrangement this disclosure contemplates any suitable access station or endpoint having any suitable number of any suitable components in any suitable arrangement.

In particular embodiments processor includes hardware for executing instructions such as those making up a computer program. As an example and not by way of limitation to execute instructions processor may retrieve or fetch the instructions from an internal register an internal cache memory or storage decode and execute them and then write one or more results to an internal register an internal cache memory or storage . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal caches for data instructions or addresses. This disclosure contemplates processor including any suitable number of any suitable internal caches where appropriate. As an example and not by way of limitation processor may include one or more instruction caches one or more data caches and one or more translation lookaside buffers TLBs . Instructions in the instruction caches may be copies of instructions in memory or storage and the instruction caches may speed up retrieval of those instructions by processor . Data in the data caches may be copies of data in memory or storage for instructions executing at processor to operate on the results of previous instructions executed at processor for access by subsequent instructions executing at processor or for writing to memory or storage or other suitable data. The data caches may speed up read or write operations by processor . The TLBs may speed up virtual address translation for processor . In particular embodiments processor may include one or more internal registers for data instructions or addresses. Depending on the embodiment processor may include any suitable number of any suitable internal registers where appropriate. Where appropriate processor may include one or more arithmetic logic units ALUs be a multi core processor include one or more processors or any other suitable processor.

In particular embodiments memory may include main memory for storing instructions for processor to execute or data for processor to operate on. As an example and not by way of limitation access station may load instructions from storage or another source such as for example another computer system another access station or an endpoint to memory . Processor may then load the instructions from memory to an internal register or internal cache. To execute the instructions processor may retrieve the instructions from the internal register or internal cache and decode them. During or after execution of the instructions processor may write one or more results which may be intermediate or final results to the internal register or internal cache. Processor may then write one or more of those results to memory . In particular embodiments processor may execute only instructions in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere and may operate only on data in one or more internal registers or internal caches or in memory as opposed to storage or elsewhere . One or more memory buses which may each include an address bus and a data bus may couple processor to memory . Bus may include one or more memory buses as described below. In particular embodiments one or more memory management units MMUs may reside between processor and memory and facilitate accesses to memory requested by processor . In particular embodiments memory may include random access memory RAM . This RAM may be volatile memory where appropriate. Where appropriate this RAM may be dynamic RAM DRAM or static RAM SRAM . Moreover where appropriate this RAM may be single ported or multi ported RAM or any other suitable type of RAM or memory. Memory may include one or more memories where appropriate.

In particular embodiments storage may include mass storage for data or instructions. As an example and not by way of limitation storage may include an HDD a floppy disk drive flash memory an optical disc a magneto optical disc magnetic tape or a Universal Serial Bus USB drive or a combination of two or more of these. Storage may include removable or non removable or fixed media where appropriate. Storage may be internal or external to access station where appropriate. In particular embodiments storage may be non volatile solid state memory. In particular embodiments storage may include read only memory ROM . Where appropriate this ROM may be mask programmed ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable PROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM electrically alterable ROM EAROM or flash memory or a combination of two or more of these. Mass storage may take any suitable physical form and may comprise any suitable number or type of storage. Storage may include one or more storage control units facilitating communication between processor and storage where appropriate.

In particular embodiments I O interface may include hardware encoded software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication between access station and one or more I O devices. Access station may include one or more of these I O devices where appropriate. One or more of these I O devices may enable communication between a person and access station . As an example and not by way of limitation an I O device may include a keyboard keypad microphone monitor mouse printer scanner speaker still camera stylus tablet touchscreen trackball video camera another suitable I O device or a combination of two or more of these. An I O device may include one or more sensors. Particular embodiments may include any suitable type and or number of I O devices and any suitable type and or number of I O interfaces for them. Where appropriate I O interface may include one or more device or encoded software drivers enabling processor to drive one or more of these I O devices. I O interface may include one or more I O interfaces where appropriate.

In particular embodiments communication interface may include hardware encoded software or both providing one or more interfaces for communication such as for example packet based communication between access station and one or more other access stations endpoints networks. As an example and not by way of limitation communication interface may include a network interface controller NIC or network adapter for communicating with an Ethernet or other wire based network or a wireless NIC WNIC or wireless adapter for communicating with a wireless network such as a 3G 4G WiMAX LTE LTE A or WI FI network. In some embodiments communication interface may include multiple antennas used for example in conjunction with MIMO technology. Depending on the embodiment access station may be used in any suitable network and may comprise any suitable communication interface for it. As an example and not by way of limitation access station may communicate with an ad hoc network a personal area network PAN a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a metropolitan area network MAN or one or more portions of the Internet or a combination of two or more of these. One or more portions of one or more of these networks may be wired or wireless. As an example access station may communicate with a wireless PAN WPAN such as for example a BLUETOOTH WPAN a WI FI network a WI MAX network an LTE network an LTE A network a cellular telephone network such as for example a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network or any other suitable wireless network or a combination of two or more of these. Base station may include any suitable communication interface for any of these networks where appropriate. Communication interface may include one or more communication interfaces where appropriate.

In particular embodiments bus may include hardware encoded software or both coupling components of access station to each other. As an example and not by way of limitation bus may include an Accelerated Graphics Port AGP or other graphics bus an Enhanced Industry Standard Architecture EISA bus a front side bus FSB a HYPERTRANSPORT HT interconnect an Industry Standard Architecture ISA bus an INFINIBAND interconnect a low pin count LPC bus a memory bus a Micro Channel Architecture MCA bus a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus a PCI Express PCI X bus a serial advanced technology attachment SATA bus a Video Electronics Standards Association local VLB bus or any other suitable bus or a combination of two or more of these. Bus may include any number type and or configuration of buses where appropriate.

Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium encompasses one or more tangible computer readable storage media possessing structures. As an example and not by way of limitation a computer readable storage medium may include a semiconductor based or other integrated circuit IC such as for example a field programmable gate array FPGA or an application specific IC ASIC a hard disk an HDD a hybrid hard drive HHD an optical disc an optical disc drive ODD a magneto optical disc a magneto optical drive a floppy disk a floppy disk drive FDD magnetic tape a holographic storage medium a solid state drive SSD a RAM drive a SECURE DIGITAL card a SECURE DIGITAL drive a flash memory card a flash memory drive or any other suitable computer readable storage medium or a combination of two or more of these where appropriate. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes any medium that is not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101. Herein reference to a computer readable storage medium excludes transitory forms of signal transmission such as a propagating electrical or electromagnetic signal per se to the extent that they are not eligible for patent protection under 35 U.S.C. 101.

Particular embodiments may include one or more computer readable storage media implementing any suitable storage. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements one or more portions of processor such as for example one or more internal registers or caches one or more portions of memory one or more portions of storage or a combination of these where appropriate. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements RAM or ROM. In particular embodiments a computer readable storage medium implements volatile or persistent memory. In particular embodiments one or more computer readable storage media embody encoded software.

Herein reference to encoded software may encompass one or more applications bytecode one or more computer programs one or more executables one or more instructions logic machine code one or more scripts or source code and vice versa where appropriate that have been stored or encoded in a computer readable storage medium. In particular embodiments encoded software includes one or more application programming interfaces APIs stored or encoded in a computer readable storage medium. Particular embodiments may use any suitable encoded software written or otherwise expressed in any suitable programming language or combination of programming languages stored or encoded in any suitable type or number of computer readable storage media. In particular embodiments encoded software may be expressed as source code or object code. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in a higher level programming language such as for example C Perl or a suitable extension thereof. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in a lower level programming language such as assembly language or machine code . In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in JAVA. In particular embodiments encoded software is expressed in Hyper Text Markup Language HTML Extensible Markup Language XML or other suitable markup language.

Network may comprise one or more interconnected networks operated by one or more different operators using one or more different technologies or protocols. Though network is depicted as a single network it may comprise any number of the networks described above with respect to . For example network may comprise the Internet a LAN WAN MAN PSTN or some combination of the above.

The components and devices illustrated in may be used to provide link adaptation. Link Adaptation may be used with modern 3G and 4G wireless systems e.g. WiMAX LTE LTE A etc. . In particular embodiments link adaptation may provide adjustments to the modulation and coding scheme MCS level used by communication interface for the uplink and or downlink of a wireless link based on a combination of at least two or more factors including channel quality information for a wireless link an application profile for one or more programs over the wireless link and a mobility indication of the endpoint e.g. endpoint with which the wireless link is established. For example when a wireless link is in a poor state e.g. a low signal to noise ratio SNR a lower MCS level may be used to increase the reliability of transmissions despite its spectral in efficiency. Conversely for example when a wireless link is in a good state e.g. a high SNR a higher MCS level may be used to obtain higher spectral efficiency.

Each MCS level may be associated with an SNR threshold below which it has an unacceptably high bit error rate BER . Particular embodiments may select the highest MCS level whose SNR threshold is smaller than the current SNR of the wireless link while also taking into account at least one of an application profile or a mobility indication of at least one connection of the wireless link.

In addition to selecting an appropriate MCS level particular embodiments may also select a MIMO scheme suitable for a particular wireless link. Available MIMO schemes may include for example spatial multiplexing SM or a transmit diversity technology such as Space Time Block Codes STBC or Space Frequency Block Codes SFBC . SM may provide higher spectral efficiency while STBC SFBC may provide higher reliability.

Depending on the scenario the mobility of endpoints may cause abnormal fluctuations in the wireless link for example in the channel quality as compared to a stationary endpoint . These fluctuations may impact the data throughput of the wireless link. Accordingly the mobility of endpoints may impact the type of MIMO scheme and or the MCS level that is used for a particular SNR. As the endpoint increases speed the need for reliability may also increase. Accordingly particular embodiments may select more robust link parameters for an endpoint that is moving than would be selected if SNR considerations alone were considered. For example a quicker moving endpoint may switch from SM to STBC SFBC at a lower SNR. This may be because the STBC SFBC scheme is more reliable than the SM scheme. While a traditional base station may use the average SNR to select an MCS level without regard to mobility particular embodiments by including the mobility of endpoints may make selections that more accurately reflect the quality of the wireless link.

Different types of applications have different QoS requirements. The QoS requirements may include such factors as delay and packet loss rate. Some protocols or technologies have techniques e.g. HARQ that correct or respond to packet errors. These techniques may add delay in responding to a bad packet. Thus when the channel is bad particular embodiments may use a more reliable MCS MIMO combination that reduces the number of re transmissions for bad packets. This may result in less packet delay. Conversely when the channel quality is good particular embodiments may take advantage of an MCS MIMO combination that provides high spectral efficiency. The higher efficiency may be used because it may be less likely that packets will have to be re transmitted. Particular embodiments may consider the trade offs between higher reliability and higher efficiency in light of the QoS requirements for the specific application using the wireless link. For example an application used with conversational voice may be able to tolerate a relatively high packet loss rate e.g. 10 but may have a relatively strict delay requirement e.g. 100 ms . As another example a file sharing application may require a relatively low packet error rate e.g. 10 but may tolerate a relatively long delay e.g. 300 ms . Between these two extreme cases there are other applications with their respective delay tolerance and loss error rate requirements. The QoS requirements may be stored in memory storage or remotely.

Another characteristic of different applications may be the statistical distributions of their respective sources. For example the media access control packet data unit MAC PDU size for a VoIP application is relatively small e.g. 42 bytes compared to the mean MAC PDU size of an I frame of a streaming movie e.g. 5640 bytes . Larger MAC PDUs may be more susceptible to errors. Particular embodiments may segment data that is to be transmitted into smaller blocks. The size of these smaller blocks may be determined based the SNR application profile and or mobility of the endpoint.

In particular embodiments processor of base station or a processor of endpoint may select between the various MIMO schemes and MCS levels to provide a suitable balance between reliability and efficiency based on a combination of the SNR the application profile of an application using the wireless link and the mobility of the respective endpoint . This may allow for application and mobility aware link adaptation. In considering the application profile and mobility associated with a wireless link base station may be moving traditional adaptation from a physical layer decision into a cross layer decision. This may allow link adaptation decisions that better meet the application s requirements e.g. QoS requirements given the mobility characteristics and channel conditions.

Information regarding the SNR application profile and or mobility may be determined detected or communicated in a variety of ways. For example in some embodiments and in some scenarios endpoint may send a 4 bit call quality indication CQI index to recommend a particular MCS level and precoding matrix indicator PMI to indicate the precoding matrix to be used in a spatial multiplexing MIMO scheme. In certain embodiments and in certain situations endpoint may send a 2 bit MIMO scheme recommendation e.g. SM STBC SFBC or other MIMO scheme in addition to the CQI.

In addition to the 4 bit CQI and the 2 bit MIMO scheme some embodiments may comprise a 2 bit mobility indication to provide feedback as to the mobility of the endpoint. In some embodiments base station may be able to determine the mobility of endpoints on its own e.g. without receiving a mobility indication . In particular embodiments the mobility indication may quantize the mobility of an endpoint into four classes 1 indoor 

In particular embodiments endpoints may use a control channel to communicate a recommendation e.g. a particular MCS MIMO scheme to base station . This may be done once endpoint for example determines a suitable MCS MIMO combination based on one or more of the application profile SNR and mobility information. Because endpoint is supplying the information for its own wireless link it knows the SNR as opposed to a base station which may estimate SNR information using for example endpoint sounding signals. Moreover because endpoint has taken into account its mobility in making its recommendation there may be no need for endpoint to provide mobility feedback. This approach may shift the processing load from base station to endpoints .

Thus far several different embodiments and features have been presented. Particular embodiments may combine one or more of these features depending on operational needs and or component limitations. This may allow for great adaptability of network to the needs of various organizations and users. For example a particular embodiment may use several access stations to provide wireless access for a metropolitan area. Some embodiments may include additional features.

With respect to link adaptation unit is part of a base station such as base station discussed above. Link adaptation unit receives CQI information and mobility information . This information may be received from an endpoint such as endpoint it may be determined locally at the base station or it may be gathered through a combination of the two. Link adaptation unit may also receive application profile information and scheduling resources information . This information may be readily available from the base station. Collectively CQI information mobility information application profile information and scheduling resources information may be referred to as input information

Using input information link adaptation unit may output the code block size provided to segmentation block MCS level provided to channel encoder and symbol mapper and MIMO scheme provided to MIMO scheme unit . As alluded to above depending on the embodiment and capabilities of the base station and endpoint the base station may receive mobility information from an endpoint or it may determine the endpoint s mobility from analyzing the Doppler spectrum of the reference signals sent by the endpoint. Similarly channel quality information may be received as a CQI index value provided by an endpoint or the base station may estimate the link quality e.g. based on the uplink quality and reciprocity or endpoint sounding .

With respect to there are two link adaptation units link adaptation unit is part of a base station such as base station and link adaptation unit is a part of an endpoint such as endpoint . Link adaptation unit at the endpoint may determine the MCS level and MIMO scheme based on application profile SNR information and mobility information . The MCS and MIMO decision made by link adaptation unit may be sent to the base station as a recommendation to link adaptation unit at the base station. Link adaptation unit may then use this information along with scheduling resources information to make a final decision on the code block size MCS and MIMO scheme.

Application profile information may include estimated delay and throughput curves of the particular application as a function of the SNR. This information may be pre determined and stored locally at either the base station or the endpoint where appropriate.

Regardless of whether the link adaptation functionality is solely within the base station or is divided between the endpoint and the base station the decision process involving the application profile may in certain embodiments be divided into two stages. In the first stage the choice of MCS MIMO may be limited to the set of combinations that satisfy target delay and packet error loss rate requirements e.g. as ascertained from the application profile . In the second stage the MIMO MCS scheme that maximizes the throughput among the subset of combinations output by the first stage may be chosen.

Generally speaking the motion of objects causes Doppler spectrum which gives the statistical distribution of the channel at a particular frequency. The Doppler spectrum is nonzero for f f f f where fis the maximum Doppler spread which is calculated as follows 

Regardless of whether the link adaptation functionality is solely within the base station or is divided between the endpoint and the base station the decision process involving the mobility of the endpoint may in certain embodiments be divided into two stages. In the first stage the mobility of the endpoint may be taken into account to generate a sub set of performance curves. The sub set of curves may then be used in the next stage to maximize the throughput and or minimize the delay.

The method begins at step with the establishment of a wireless link between at least one endpoint and an access station. The wireless link may comprise multiple connections. For example in some embodiments an endpoint may establish a wireless link with an access station and then use the wireless link to support multiple connections associated with multiple applications e.g. one connection for a VoIP session another connection for a data transfer session etc. . The link may be established using any of a variety of wireless technologies and or protocols. For example the wireless connection may be a 3G 4G WiMAX LTE or LTE A wireless connection.

At step an application associated with one of the connections associated with the wireless link is detected. The application may be detected by either the base station or the endpoint. For example the endpoint may be able to detect the application based on what applications the endpoint is running. As another example the base station may be able to detect the application based on the signaling exchanged during the establishment of the connection for the application.

At step an application profile associated with the connection associated with the wireless link is determined. This may be done at the endpoint or base station with locally or remotely stored information. In particular embodiments the application profile may be based on the application or application type detected at step . For example if the endpoint is running a specific VoIP application step may entail determining that the endpoint is running a conversational voice type application.

At step a packet delay budget and a packet error loss rate associated with the application are determined by the endpoint or the base station . In some embodiments the packet delay budget and packet error loss rate may be determined from a table that lists the packet delay budget and the packet error loss rate associated with several different types of applications. For example the LTE specification includes a table comprising nine different types of application profiles.

At step a mobility indication indicative of a rate of travel of the endpoint is received. Depending on the embodiment and or scenario the mobility indication may be received from the endpoint or it may be calculated by the base station. For example in particular embodiments the mobility indication for an endpoint may be by a base station using sounding signals provided by the endpoint. In some embodiments the endpoint may communicate its knowledge of its mobility. Depending on the embodiment the mobility indication may comprise a selection of a particular class of speeds.

At step at least one performance curve is adjusted based on the mobility indication. The at least one performance curve correlates at least one parameter of a wireless link with a detected SNR. This adjustment may account for the degradation of the wireless connection that may occur the faster the endpoint travels. The performance curves may correlate block error rate versus SNR and delay versus SNR. The curves may originally be constructed to cover a variety of different scenarios based on a given mobility MIMO scheme code block size and MCS using for example a link level simulator or actual measurements . Depending on the scenario the performance curves may be based on a set of link level simulations or real system measurements.

At step the performance curves are pre screened based on for example the application profile. The pre screening may eliminate those performance curves that may not meet the QoS requirements of the application profile. This may reduce the number of performance curves that are considered in later steps.

At step a signal to noise ratio associated with the wireless link is correlated with the at least one parameter for the wireless link. In particular embodiments the SNR information for a wireless link may be estimated e.g. based on reciprocity at the base station using sounding signals periodically transmitted by an endpoint. In certain embodiments the SNR information may be communicated or reported specifically from the endpoint. Regardless of how the SNR is acquired the correlation may be based on the adjusted performance curve attained at step . The correlation at step may help in eliminating from consideration those MCS levels and or MIMO schemes that may not meet the QOS requirements based on the detected SNR. In some embodiments a table may be constructed identifying the minimum SNR requirement above which a corresponding configuration of code block size MIMO scheme and MCS levels may be applied that provides based on the performance curves for a given application a specified delay and packet error rate requirement under each mobility scenario.

At steps and the MIMO scheme the MCS level and the code block size are dynamically selected for the wireless link. Depending on the embodiment and or scenario the determinations may be made at the base station the endpoint or a combination of the two. Where one or more of the selections are made at the endpoint the endpoint may transmit the selections to the base station as a recommendation. Regardless of where the selections are made each selection may be based on one or more of the application profile endpoint mobility or SNR. Not only may the selections account for the QOS requirements for the wireless link or connection in light of the channel quality and endpoint mobility but they may also attempt to maximize the efficiency and or total throughput of the access station across all its wireless links. These selections may be dynamically adjusted over the course of the life of the wireless link. This may allow for adaptability to changing conditions.

Some of the steps illustrated in may be combined modified or deleted where appropriate and additional steps may also be added to the flowchart. For example in some embodiments more than one data stream may be decoded using the maximum likelihood decoder. Additionally steps may be performed in any suitable order without departing from the scope of particular embodiments.

Although particular embodiments have been described in detail it should be understood that they do not limit the scope of this disclosure and that various other changes substitutions combinations and alterations may be made hereto without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure. For example although an embodiment has been described with reference to a number of elements included within communication system such as endpoints and base stations these elements may be combined rearranged or positioned in order to accommodate particular routing architectures or needs. In addition any of these elements may be provided as separate external components to communication system or each other where appropriate. The present invention contemplates great flexibility in the arrangement of these elements as well as their internal components.

Numerous other changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications may be ascertained by those skilled in the art and it is intended that various embodiments encompass all such changes substitutions variations alterations and modifications as falling within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

