---

title: Messaging and service system for mobile computer
abstract: A service sends rich content messages including text and photos between any mobile device and potentially across a heterogeneous network. Furthermore, to enhance the user experience, content can be delivered based on personal preferences and device display capabilities.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08458270&OS=08458270&RS=08458270
owner: Sony Electronics Inc.
number: 08458270
owner_city: Park Ridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100924
---
This application is a divisional of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 977 356 filed Oct. 29 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 860 937 which in turn claims priority from U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 60 518 285 filed Nov. 7 2003. Priority to both of the prior applications is claimed.

The advent of mobile devices and their enhanced capabilities has precipitated efforts to tap the vast information and services available on the Internet and extend them to wireless mobile devices such as wireless telephones and personal digital assistants PDAs . These devices are easy to carry provide ample level of battery life for remote operations and contain sophisticated operating systems to serve as adequate platforms for mobile messaging and information services.

As understood herein messaging encompasses the ability to send text and or multimedia content such as photos audio and video. Further services can include information on demand such as stock quotes weather headline news etc. preferably provided over a Wide Area Network WAN such as the Internet.

As recognized herein a challenge is in building a service that makes market sense for mobile devices. For instance the capabilities of the target mobile device dictates the strength of the services that can be delivered to that device. This in turn implicates the need for a client application that is sufficiently capable to exploit the resources that are present on the client device.

Furthermore as recognized herein a server application should be provided that is capable of handling messages not only to a specific device but also to the granularity of a specific user. Also information services can be dependent on the ability of the device is receiving and displaying the content posing yet another challenge in providing them to wireless computing devices.

A service is disclosed that includes sending to a wireless computing device rich content messages including text and photographs. The messages may be sent across a heterogeneous network and message content can be based on personal preferences of a user and or on display capabilities of the device. The personal preference can be in the form of a personal profile that essentially is an information filter stored on a Web server to optimize bandwidth. The filter can be increased or decreased in strength as desired by the user of a wireless device communicating with the server.

In some embodiments the device sends an XML request to send a message and the method includes authenticating the user of the device using an external authentication module. The method can also include validating message content format to ensure the message includes only text and or photographs and then generating a Java Message Service JMS message and sending it to a server queue. A wireless device can send an XML request for messages addressed to the device and if the user of the requesting device is authenticated the server queue is checked for messages intended for the requesting device. The messages if any are formatted for the device per user defined preferences and sent to the device.

In another aspect a messaging system includes a wireless computing device and a load balance server communicating with the wireless computing device. The system also includes an application server communicating with the load balance server and a Web page server communicating with the load balance server. Further a database server can communicate with the load balance server. The application server includes a Message Queue MQ server application with the server application in turn including a server part a client runtime part an administered object part and an administration part.

In still another aspect a method is disclosed for providing at least one information service to a wireless computing device. The method includes receiving from the mobile device an initial information request. Using a web service platform on an application server a Simple Object Application Protocol SOAP request is generated and sent to a third party web server which sends back a SOAP response containing the requested information. The method includes providing the information to the wireless computing device.

The details of the present invention both as to its structure and operation can best be understood in reference to the accompanying drawings in which like reference numerals refer to like parts and in which 

The following acronyms may be used herein Java Message Service JMS Message Queue MQ Mobile Information Device Profile 2.0 MIDP2 Java Technology for Wireless Industry JTWI Java 2 Platform Micro Edition J2ME Connected Limited Device Configuration CLDC Connected Device Configuration CDC Mobile Information Devices MID Personal Digital Assistant PDA .

Referring initially to a system is shown generally designated that includes one or more load balancing servers communicating with one or more mobile computing devices over a network such as the Internet. The mobile computing device may be a wireless telephone personal digital assistant PDA or other device that may use a non personal computer PC operating system OS and in the embodiment shown that uses a Palm OS. The mobile computing device can communicate with the server over the Internet using e.g. modems 802.11 transceivers Bluetooth infrared IR and or radiofrequency rf transceivers and the like.

It is to be understood that one or more of the processors of the computers shown herein undertake the logic shown and discussed below which may be executed by a processor as a series of computer executable instructions.

The instructions may be contained on a data storage device with a computer readable medium such as a computer diskette having a computer usable medium with computer readable code elements stored thereon. Or the instructions may be stored on a DASD array magnetic tape conventional hard disk drive electronic read only memory optical storage device or other appropriate data storage device. In an illustrative embodiment of the invention the computer executable instructions may be lines of compiled Ccompatible code or JAVA .

Indeed the flow charts herein illustrate the structure of the logic of the present invention as embodied in computer program software. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the flow charts illustrate the structures of computer program code elements including logic circuits on an integrated circuit that function according to this invention. Manifestly the invention can be practiced in its essential embodiment by a machine component that renders the program code elements in a form that instructs a digital processing apparatus that is a computer to perform a sequence of function acts corresponding to those shown.

The load balancing server balances incoming message and service requests among plural web servers and or application servers only a single one of each is shown for clarity to avoid choking any one of the servers. As contemplated herein as the number of users increase the web servers can be horizontally scaled without disrupting the service. Security for transactions can be provided by using secure sockets layer SSL certificates that are accessible by the load balancing server to relieve the web servers of encryption and decryption processing.

The Web servers host static hypertext markup language HTML pages. For each of the services provided to the mobile device these servers contain the web version of the service in the form of a portal. Accordingly users of mobile devices have the ability to directly log in from any Internet capable device and browse through the services. If desired the Web servers can be configured using Linux and Apache for the web service.

In addition to the servers discussed above one or more database servers only one shown for clarity can be provided. The database servers can be clustered as a precaution against hardware and software failure. In some embodiments the database servers can use Solaris with an Oracle database. This system contains the necessary user information for authentication. Also the database servers can store user information such as the preferences discussed further below to facilitate customized service delivery. Storage Area Networks SAN and or Network Attached Storage NAS can be provided for data storage.

As shown in the load balancer server can communicate with the servers and SAN using a virtual private network that can include plural virtual local area networks VLAN i.e. different virtual local area networks VLANs can be provided for different pieces of equipment. For example the load balancer server may be placed on a global VLAN which has direct connectivity to the Internet. The backend of the load balancer server can be connected to a first private VLAN which hosts the Web servers . For services each of the web servers can access the application server and to balance the load in this layer of communication the web servers can be configured to alternatively open sessions with first and second application servers . In a similar fashion the application servers are connected to all the VLANs. The database servers in contrast may be hosted on a second VLAN . Any SAN that may be used can provide for direct connection to all servers to allow for fast access to necessary data from any of the servers.

In one embodiment and referring now to the present messaging service may use Sun s Message Queue MQ server application which can be executed by the present application server . The architecture of the MQ system can be broken down into four parts namely the server part the client runtime part the administered object part and administration part .

The MQ server part constitutes the heart of the MQ system. It includes one or more brokers which provide delivery services for the system. These services include connections to Java Messaging Service JMS clients messaging applications that are executed on the application server message routing and delivery persistence security and logging. The message server part that may be executed by the application server maintains physical destinations to which clients send messages and from which the messages are delivered to consuming clients as set forth more fully below.

The MQ Client runtime part provides the interface between the JMS client and MQ message server part . It supports all the required operations needed by the JMS client to send and receive messages. The MQ administered objects part encapsulates configuration information that can be specific to a particular wireless device . A user can use the MQ administration part to create and manage these objects.

To describe the interaction of the applications JMS clients using JMS APIs it must first be understood that JMS messages consist of a header properties and body. The MQ server part generates most of the header information automatically while some values can be specified or changed by the client . Typical information within the header includes destination delivery mode expiration time priority status etc. When a message is sent information besides the payload carried in the body may be included in descriptive fields of its properties.

A component referred to as connection factory may be a JMS object that contains the service provider s configuration information. Per this configuration information a connection is created to the MS server part through which messages are transported. A session can be a single threaded context for producing and consuming messages and may be used to define the message producers and consumers that send and receive messages.

A message producer can be created by passing the destination object to the session s method for creating a message producer. The same can be true for creating a message consumer. For asynchronous consumption a so called message listener can be used. The message listener may be registered with a message consumer.

In contrast to messaging for information services the system acts as a broker between the mobile devices and third party vendors where the content lies. The information services application can be designed to accept and parse the incoming request connect to the appropriate third party web service to gather the information and pass the information back to the mobile device in the appropriate format.

Referring to a user of a wireless device can first register in accordance with conventional registration processes known in the art at block and then user preferences can be stored at block . The user can be authenticated at block with user requests for messaging and services being satisfied at block .

With more specificity services can be customized to each mobile device in the system if desired by storing customer preferences in a database of the system and then acting upon these preferences when providing each of the services. This essentially acts as an information filter that is stored on the server and thus need not be stored on a wireless client device.

Examples of possible customization the customers may require include image quality size of messages types of message content and message blocking. The present invention understands that for a messaging service users might like to adjust their preferences to suit the amount of time they would spend in downloading information. If a single user gets several messages waiting for him in a queue on the server waiting for a login from the associated mobile device then without particular preferences the download could take a long time. Using the system however the user has an opportunity to reduce the image quality to reduce the message size or implement a maximum limit for message size. Message blocking can be used for annoying messages.

For information services customization may take the form of a custom stock list news topic selections weather related to a particular location tracking specific currency rates etc. For example the user can establish his personal preferences filter on one of the servers shown in such that only breaking news is delivered to the user s wireless device. The user can alter the filter to increase or decrease its strength e.g. the user can select only sports news or only baseball news. Updating the filter can be done via a web site. During data transfer the first part that synchronizes can be the personal preferences filter which may include the size of the data or minutes available for synchronization new filter settings that are available that have been recently posted on the server and priority of preferences which can change based on time since during business hours some information can be more important than during leisure hours .

With respect to the authentication step at block each user of the system can be pre registered. Personal user information can be provided and stored preferably on one of the servers shown in . The user information can include a user identification and password which must be provided to complete authentication. The user identification can also be used for targeting to send and receive messages in the case of PDAs. A phone number may be used to target mobile phones.

Preferably the authentication module is written independently of the application logic of any service provided. Using SOAP Simple Object Application Protocol the authentication module may be capable of receiving a request from any service to authenticate the user. Once successfully authenticated a session identification may be used by the application to complete the service request independent of any further interactions with the authentication module. Thus the authentication module simply validates the session identification against a session identification database. Preferably the authentication module contains separate methods to register a new user insert a record and to change user information edit .

With this overview in mind an XML request to send a message can be received at block and the user authenticated using the external authentication module at block in accordance with principles discussed previously. The content format may be validated at block e.g. the content can be validated to be text and or photographs. The above discussed JMS message may then be generated at block and sent to the MQ server queues as shown with the MQ server queues being hosted on a database server or application server .

In exemplary non limiting an XML request for messages addressed to the requesting wireless device is received at block . At block the requesting user may be authenticated and then at block the MQ message queues are checked for messages addressed to the requestor. At block any relevant messages are received and formatted per the user defined preferences discussed above. If desired by the user for instance when retrieving messages only message headlines can be initially displayed instead of the entire message to facilitate quickly scrolling through potentially many messages. The response consisting of the requestor s messages can be sent to the wireless device at block .

As recognized herein mobile devices may be limited by screen size and so a user may have difficulty to conveniently view complex web pages. As mentioned above however the user of a wireless device can customize received information by entering preferences into the system and this applies to information services as well including but not limited to headline news from a web server stock quotes from a web server currency rates and location based weather.

Accordingly referring to and assuming for illustration that weather information may be desired by a user of a wireless device at block in the mobile device transmits an initial information request. A web service platform on the application server then generates a SOAP request at block . The SOAP request can be sent to a third party content provider e.g. one of the web servers shown in at block which responds with a SOAP response containing the requested information. The SOAP response is decoded at block and the identification of the requesting device can be compared to the device database to obtain the device specific preferences capabilities at block in accordance with principles set forth above. The content can be formatted per the preferences capabilities at block and sent to the requesting device at block . shows an example SOAP request in accordance with the logic of .

For applications used by the mobile devices it is preferable to use a single technology and be able to use it on various types of devices . As recognized herein the J2ME Java platform provides this capability since most phones and PDAs are Java enabled.

The present invention further recognizes that the Mobile Information Device Profile MiDP combined with the Connected Limited Device Configuration CLDC can be the Java runtime environment for many mobile devices such as wireless telephones and PDAs. MIDP can provide sufficient application functionality that might be required by mobile device applications including user interfaces network connectivity and local storage management. Mobile Information Device Profile 2.0 MIDP2 can be used for instance to develop a photo messaging application for the Sony CLIE PDA which may not otherwise be able to use J2ME. Such an application can be transferred between the CLIE and any Java enabled wireless telephone.

Further to messaging applications on wireless devices a messaging application can use the Palm native development environment referred to colloquially as Code Warrior . An XML interface can be used to communicate with a JMS server.

While the particular MESSAGING AND SERVICE SYSTEM FOR MOBILE COMPUTER as herein shown and described in detail is fully capable of attaining the above described objects of the invention it is to be understood that it is the presently preferred embodiment of the present invention and is thus representative of the subject matter which is broadly contemplated by the present invention that the scope of the present invention fully encompasses other embodiments which may become obvious to those skilled in the art and that the scope of the present invention is accordingly to be limited by nothing other than the appended claims in which reference to an element in the singular is not intended to mean one and only one unless explicitly so stated but rather one or more . It is not necessary for a device or method to address each and every problem sought to be solved by the present invention for it to be encompassed by the present claims. Furthermore no element component or method step in the present disclosure is intended to be dedicated to the public regardless of whether the element component or method step is explicitly recited in the claims. Absent express definitions herein claim terms are to be given all ordinary and accustomed meanings that are not irreconcilable with the present specification and file history.

