---

title: Systems for determining website secure certificate status via partner browser plugin
abstract: Systems of the present inventions allow for determining website secure certificate status via a partner browser plugin. An exemplary system may comprise a server communicatively coupled to a network hosting a first website configured to receive a request for a plugin from a partner. The plugin may be configured to determine the secure certificate status of a second website browsed in a browser on the partner's computing device. The system further may comprise a plugin request processing module, perhaps running on the server, configured to receive a request for the plugin from the partner, code the plugin with a unique identifier identifying the partner, and transmit the coded plugin to the partner. A status receipt module, perhaps also running on the server, may be configured to receive, from the plugin, the second website's uniform resource locator and secure certificate status, and the partner's unique identifier. The status receipt module also may be configured to store the received data in a database running on the server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09225511&OS=09225511&RS=09225511
owner: Go Daddy Operating Company, LLC
number: 09225511
owner_city: Scottsdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100817
---
This patent application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 857 783 entitled WEBSITE SECURE CERTIFICATE STATUS DETERMINATION VIA PARTNER BROWSER PLUGIN concurrently filed herewith and also assigned to Go Daddy Operating Company LLC.

The present inventions generally relate to website secure certificates and more particularly systems and methods for determining website secure certificate status via partner browser plugins.

An example embodiment of a system for determining website secure certificate status via a partner browser plugin may comprise a server communicatively coupled to a network hosting a first website configured to receive a request for a plugin from a partner. The plugin may be configured to determine the secure certificate status of a second website browsed in a browser on the partner s computing device. The system further may comprise a plugin request processing module perhaps running on the server configured to receive a request for the plugin from the partner code the plugin with a unique identifier identifying the partner and transmit the coded plugin to the partner. A status receipt module perhaps also running on the server may be configured to receive from the plugin the second website s uniform resource locator and secure certificate status and the partner s unique identifier. The status receipt module also may be configured to store the received data in a database running on the server.

An example embodiment of method for determining website secure certificate status via a partner browser plugin may comprise the steps of storing on a server communicatively coupled to a network a plugin configured to determine the secure certificate status of a website browsed in the browser. A request for the plugin from a partner having a unique identifier may be received at the server. The plugin may be coded with the partner s unique identifier and transmitted to the partner. The server subsequently may receive from the plugin the website s uniform resource locator and secure certificate status along with the partner s unique identifier which may be used to identify the source of the data.

The above features and advantages of the present inventions will be better understood from the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

The present inventions will now be discussed in detail with regard to the attached drawing figures which were briefly described above. In the following description numerous specific details are set forth illustrating the Applicant s best mode for practicing the inventions and enabling one of ordinary skill in the art to make and use the inventions. It will be obvious however to one skilled in the art that the present inventions may be practiced without many of these specific details. In other instances well known machines structures and method steps have not been described in particular detail in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the present inventions. Unless otherwise indicated like parts and method steps are referred to with like reference numerals.

A network is a collection of links and nodes e.g. multiple computers and or other devices connected together arranged so that information may be passed from one part of the network to another over multiple links and through various nodes. Examples of networks include the Internet the public switched telephone network the global Telex network computer networks e.g. an intranet an extranet a local area network or a wide area network wired networks and wireless networks.

The Internet is a worldwide network of computers and computer networks arranged to allow the easy and robust exchange of information between computer users. Hundreds of millions of people around the world have access to computers connected to the Internet via Internet Service Providers ISPs . Content providers place multimedia information e.g. text graphics audio video animation and other forms of data at specific locations on the Internet referred to as webpages. Websites comprise a collection of connected or otherwise related webpages. The combination of all the websites and their corresponding webpages on the Internet is generally known as the World Wide Web WWW or simply the Web.

For Internet users and businesses alike the Internet continues to be increasingly valuable. People increasingly use the Web for everyday tasks from social networking shopping banking and paying bills to consuming media and entertainment. E commerce is growing with businesses delivering more services and content across the Internet communicating and collaborating online and inventing new ways to connect with each other.

Prevalent on the Web are numerous websites some of which may offer and sell goods and services to individuals and organizations. Websites may consist of a single webpage but typically consist of multiple interconnected and related webpages. Websites unless extremely large and complex or have unusual traffic demands typically reside on a single server and are prepared and maintained by a single individual or entity. Menus and links may be used to move between different webpages within the website or to move to a different website as is known in the art. The interconnectivity of webpages enabled by the Internet can make it difficult for Internet users to tell where one website ends and another begins.

Such websites may be created using HyperText Markup Language HTML to generate a standard set of tags that define how the webpages for the website are to be displayed. Users of the Internet may access content providers websites using software known as an Internet browser such as MICROSOFT INTERNET EXPLORER or MOZILLA FIREFOX. After the browser has located the desired webpage it requests and receives information from the webpage typically in the form of an HTML document and then displays the webpage content for the user. The user then may view other webpages at the same website or move to an entirely different website using the browser.

Some Internet users typically those that are larger and more sophisticated may provide their own hardware software and connections to the Internet. But many Internet users either do not have the resources available or do not want to create and maintain the infrastructure necessary to host their own websites. To assist such individuals or entities hosting companies exist that offer website hosting services. These hosting providers typically provide the hardware software and electronic communication means necessary to connect multiple websites to the Internet. A single hosting provider may literally host thousands of websites on one or more hosting servers.

Browsers are able to locate specific websites because each website resource and computer on the Internet has a unique Internet Protocol IP address. Presently there are two standards for IP addresses. The older IP address standard often called IP Version 4 IPv4 is a 32 bit binary number which is typically shown in dotted decimal notation where four 8 bit bytes are separated by a dot from each other e.g. 64.202.167.32 . The notation is used to improve human readability. The newer IP address standard often called IP Version 6 IPv6 or Next Generation Internet Protocol IPng is a 128 bit binary number. The standard human readable notation for IPv6 addresses presents the address as eight 16 bit hexadecimal words each separated by a colon e.g. 2EDC BA98 0332 0000 CF8A 000C 2154 7313 .

IP addresses however even in human readable notation are difficult for people to remember and use. A Uniform Resource Locator URL is much easier to remember and may comprise any name or address pointing to any computer directory file webpage website database or other resource accessible via a network such as the Internet. As a non limiting example the URL may comprise a Uniform Resource Identifier URI a Uniform Resource Name URN or any other set of characters used to identify a resource on the Internet. A browser is able to access a website on the Internet through the use of a URL. The URL may include a Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP request combined with the website s Internet address also known as the website s domain name. An example of a URL with a HTTP request and domain name is http www.companyname.com. In this example the http identifies the URL as a HTTP request and companyname.com as the domain name.

A user s interaction with a website may be more secure if a secure certificate is installed on the website. A secure certificate is an electronic document that may use a digital signature to bind together a public key with an entity e.g. an individual business governmental entity etc. . The secure certificate may be used to verify that a public key belongs to that entity. When issued to a website resolving from a domain name or URL it may serve to verify that the domain name or URL is under that entity s control. As a non limiting example a secure certificate may comprise any digital certificate using the public key infrastructure such as a Secure Sockets Layer SSL or Transport Layer Security TLS certificate.

SSL includes a protocol for transmitting private documents via the Internet by using a private key to encrypt data transferred over an SSL connection. An SSL certificate lets users know that a website s owner or operator has been verified by a trusted third party a certificate authority and that confidential communications with the website are encrypted. The SSL certificate typically includes an identification of the server hosting the website such as its hostname the server s public key a digital signature provided by the Certificate Authority the subject domain name or URL the certificate s expiration date and the individual or business to which the certificate has been issued.

Common conventional browsers such as INTERNET EXPLORER or MOZILLA FIREFOX support the SSL protocol and many websites use the protocol to obtain confidential user information from their Customers. By convention URLs that require an SSL connection start with https instead of http . Whether a website is SSL certified may indicate whether the entity having control of the website has been verified as the authorized controller of the website s domain name is currently registered with a government authority and or legally exists as an incorporated corporation. SSL certificates are usually displayed on the website and typically indicate that the website utilizes at least some level of secure communications protocol.

Applicant has determined that presently existing systems and methods for providing secure certificates to website operators do not provide optimal means for determining a website s secure certificate status e.g. expired soon to expire or otherwise invalid and utilizing such information to market or otherwise provide secure certificates to website operators. For these reasons there is a need for the systems and methods for determining website secure certificate status via a partner browser plugin and related functionality as described herein.

The example embodiments herein place no limitation on network configuration or connectivity. Thus as non limiting examples the network could comprise the Internet the public switched telephone network the global Telex network computer networks e.g. an intranet an extranet a local area network or a wide area network wired networks wireless networks or any combination thereof.

Servers may be communicatively coupled to the network via any method of network connection known in the art or developed in the future including but not limited to wired wireless modem dial up satellite cable modem Digital Subscriber Line DSL Asymmetric Digital Subscribers Line ASDL Virtual Private Network VPN Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN X.25 Ethernet token ring Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI IP over Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM Infrared Data Association IrDA wireless WAN technologies T1 Frame Relay Point to Point Protocol over Ethernet PPPoE and or any combination thereof.

As non limiting examples the servers could comprise application communication mail database proxy fax file media web peer to peer standalone software or hardware servers e.g. server computers and may use any server format known in the art or developed in the future possibly a shared hosting server a virtual dedicated hosting server a dedicated hosting server or any combination thereof . Computing devices that may be used to connect to the network may include additional server s or client s such as a desktop computer a laptop computer a hand held computer a terminal a television a television set top box a cellular phone a wireless phone a wireless hand held device an Internet access device a rich client thin client or any other client functional with a client server computing architecture.

The first website hosted on the server and any other website described herein may comprise any collection of data and or files accessible perhaps via a computing device communicatively coupled to a network . It may be configured e.g. programmed to receive a request from a partner for a plugin perhaps by displaying a virtual button entitled request plugin that when clicked by a partner transmits a HTTP request to the server for the plugin . The request may comprise any electronic communication including but not limited to a HTTP request response email message Short Message Service SMS message e.g. text message and or a function call response to from an Application Programming Interface API running on a server .

An API is a software to software interface that specifies the protocol defining how independent computer programs interact or communicate with each other. The API may comprise an interface running on a server that supports function calls perhaps made by the partner s computing device seeking a plugin for installation on the browser . The API may comprise any API type known in the art or developed in the future including but not limited to request style Berkeley Sockets Transport Layer Interface TLI Representational State Transfer REST Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP Asynchronous JavaScript and XML AJAX Remote Procedure Calls RPC Structured Query Language SQL file transfer message delivery and or any combination thereof.

The partner may comprise any individual or entity that uses a browser on a computing device to browse websites . As a non limiting example the partner may comprise a participant in a domain registrar and or a certificate authority affiliate program. Such participants may join an affiliate program promote the domain registrar or certificate authorities products and services e.g. domain name registration hosting services SSL certificates and or other eCommerce solutions and subsequently receive remuneration e.g. commission for sales tracked to the participant s promotion. In such a program partners may be assigned a unique identifier perhaps an affiliate member number or some other uniquely recognizable file or code that may be used to track such sales to the partner .

The plugin may comprise any software and or script that when installed adds specific customized functionality to a larger software application such as a browser perhaps by interfacing e.g. via a function call with a host application via an API running on a server . Alternatively it may comprise a self sufficient software module running within the browser environment. The plugin may comprise any add on software component known in the art including but not limited to snap ins plug ins extensions and or themes. It may be installed on a browser and configured e.g. programmed to determine the secure certificate status of a website browsed in the browser on the partner s computing device . The website may comprise any webpage or website resolving from a URL perhaps one that has an installed secure certificate engages in eCommerce receives sensitive data or otherwise would benefit from a secure certificate.

As non limiting examples the secure certificate status determined by the plugin may include statuses indicating that the website s secure certificate perhaps a SSL certificate is nonexistent expired soon to expire improperly installed sourced from a non trusted certificate authority comprised of a non matching public and private key pair or otherwise invalid. Such statuses may be determined as non limiting examples by reading the data e.g. expiration date in the certificate itself determining whether the browser is securely communicating with the website or analyzing browser error messages e.g. invalid secure certificate .

The plugin also may be configured e.g. programmed to transmit perhaps to a certificate authority via any of the data transmission protocols discussed herein a uniform resource locator for a website having a secure certificate status determined by the plugin the secure certificate status and the unique identifier for the partner . Other information such as the date and or time that a determination is made also may be transmitted by the plugin . As non limiting examples the plugin may transmit data at regular intervals every time a secure certificate status determination is made or at any other time. Alternatively the plugin may store in local memory e.g. browser cache or computing device memory a history of visited websites and their respective statuses and transmit only the status of newly visited websites and or statuses for previously visited websites having statuses that have changes since the browser s last visit.

The illustrated systems also may comprise a plugin request processing module which along with each module described elsewhere in this application may comprise a self contained software component that may interact with the larger system and or other modules. A module may comprise an individual or plurality of file s and may execute a specific task within a larger software and or hardware system. As a non limiting example a module may comprise any software and or scripts running on at least one server containing instructions perhaps stored in computer readable media accessible by the server s computer processor that when executed by the computer processor cause the server to perform the steps for which the module is configured.

The plugin request processing module may be configured e.g. programmed to i receive the request from the partner for the plugin as described above ii code the plugin with a unique identifier for the partner and iii transmit the plugin coded with the unique identifier to the partner . The plugin request processing module may be configured to receive the described data via any method of data receipt described above e.g. HTTP request response email message SMS message and or a function call reponse to from an API . Thus it may comprise any electronic communication interface capable of receiving such requests e.g. web email or SMS server software or an API .

The plugin may be coded with the unique identifier via any method known in the art or developed in the future of encoding a piece of software with a marker indicating that use of the software e.g. plugin is uniquely traceable to the partner . As a non limiting example the plugin may be coded by adding the partner s affiliate member number in a line of code of the plugin perhaps by setting a variable to equal the partner s affiliate member number.

The plugin coded with the unique identifier may be transmitted to the partner according to any data transmission protocol known in the art or developed in the future including but not limited to an HTTP response to the request a file transfer protocol FTP transmission an email message and or a SMS message. Viable data transfer methods can generally be classified in two categories 1 pull based data transfers where the receiver initiates a data transmission request and 2 push based data transfers where the sender initiates a data transmission request. Both types are expressly included in the embodiments illustrated herein which also may include transparent data transfers over network file systems explicit file transfers from dedicated file transfer services like FTP or HTTP distributed file transfers over peer to peer networks file transfers over instant messaging systems file transfers between computers and peripheral devices and or file transfers over direct modem or serial null modem links such as XMODEM YMODEM and ZMODEM. Data streaming technology also may be used to effectuate data transfer. A data stream may be for example a sequence of digitally encoded coherent signals packets of data used to transmit or receive information that is in transmission. Any data transfer protocol known in the art or developed in the future may be used including but not limited to 1 those used with TCP IP e.g. FTAM FTP HTTP RCP SFTP SCP or FASTCopy 2 those used with UDP e.g. TFTP FSP UFTP or MFTP 3 those used with direct modem connections 4 HTTP streaming 5 Tubular Data Stream Protocol TDSP 6 Stream Control Transmission Protocol SCTP and or Real Time Streaming Protocol RTSP .

The illustrated systems also may comprise a status receipt module configured e.g. programmed to receive perhaps from the plugin a uniform resource locator for the second website having the secure certificate status determined by the plugin the secure certificate status and the unique identifier for the partner . Other information such as the date and or time that a determination is made also may be received. This system component may communicate with the plugin once installed on the partner s browser and receive the results of the plugin s website secure certificate status monitoring. The status receipt module may be configured e.g. programmed to receive the described data via any method of data receipt described above e.g. HTTP request response email message SMS message and or a function call response to from an API .

The status receipt module further may be configured e.g. programmed to store in association the uniform resource locator the secure certificate status and the unique identifier in a database . Structurally the database may comprise any collection of data accessible via the network . As non limiting examples the database may comprise a local database online database desktop database server side database relational database hierarchical database network database object database object relational database associative database concept oriented database entity attribute value database multi dimensional database semi structured database star schema database XML database file collection of files spreadsheet and or other means of data storage located on at least one server a computer a client another server or any other network storage device.

This illustrated embodiment also may comprise a secure certificate sales module running on the server . This module may be configured e.g. programmed to sell and or otherwise provide secure certificate related services to an individual or an entity having control of the subject website . As a non limiting example the secure certificate sales module may comprise a software and or scripts that when executed by the server s processor contacts an owner or operator of a website the website owner or operator may be determined by querying the WHOIS database with an offer to provide a valid secure certificate receives a request for a secure certificate and a certificate signing request from a website owner or operator verifies that the website is actually controlled by the owner or operator generates and transmits the secure certificate to the owner or operator and collects payment.

The secure certificate sales module further may be configured to pay a remuneration to the partner after a secure certificate is sold to the individual or entity having control of the second website . The remuneration may comprise any financial payment including but not limited to a percentage share of the secure certificate sales price a fixed fee and or a periodic payment for being a partner e.g. an affiliate member and may be paid via electronic funds transfer perhaps to the partner s banking account. Alternatively the partner may be paid in any conventional manner including but not limited to mailing a check.

The plugin coding module may comprise software and or scripts running on the server that when executed by the server s microprocessor cause the server to code the plugin with the unique identifier via any method known in the art or developed in the future of encoding a piece of software with a marker indicating that use of the software e.g. plugin is uniquely traceable to the partner . As a non limiting example the plugin may be coded by adding the partner s affiliate member number in a line of code of the plugin perhaps by setting a variable to equal the partner s affiliate member number.

The plugin transmission module may comprise software and or scripts running on the server that when executed by the server s microprocessor cause the server to transmit the plugin coded with the unique identifier to the partner according to any data transmission protocol described above.

The plugin may be stored Step on any server or network storage device accessible to a partner s computing device via a network . A request for the plugin then may be received Step perhaps from a partner that may be an affiliate program member. Perhaps consistent with the terms of the affiliate program the partner may have a unique identifier assigned such as a membership number. The plugin request may be received Step by any method of receiving a request known in the art or developed in the future including but not limited to receiving an electronic communication a telephone communication an in person communication or a written communication. As a non limiting example a first website hosted on a server may be configured e.g. programmed to receive a request from a partner for a plugin Step perhaps by displaying a virtual button entitled request plugin that when clicked by a partner transmits a HTTP request to the server for the plugin . Alternatively the request may comprise any electronic communication including but not limited to an email message SMS message e.g. text message and or a function call on an API running on a server .

The plugin then may be coded with the partner s unique identifier Step . This step may allow for tracking the source of data subsequently transmitted from the plugin e.g. Step and may be accomplished via any method known in the art or developed in the future of encoding a piece of software with a marker indicating that use of the software e.g. plugin is uniquely traceable to the partner . As a non limiting example the plugin may be coded by adding the partner s affiliate member number in a line of code of the plugin perhaps by setting a variable to equal the partner s affiliate member number.

The plugin coded with the unique identifier then may be transmitted to the partner Step according to any data transmission protocol known in the art or developed in the future including those described in detail above. As a non limiting example where an HTTP plugin request is received Step from a partner via a certificate authority or domain registrar s affiliate website e.g. first website an HTTP response to the request may be transmitted along with a hyperlink to the plugin stored on the server allowing the partner to download the plugin to his computing device . Once the plugin is received by the partner and installed on the browser of the partner s computing device it may determine the secure certificate status of websites browsed by the partner and transmit data back to the server . See Steps described in detail below with respect to . A uniform resource locator for the website having the secure certificate status determined by the plugin the secure certificate status the unique identifier for the partner then may be received from the plugin Step perhaps by the status receipt module running on a server as described in detail above. Other information such as the date and or time that a determination is made also may be transmitted by the plugin .

As a non limiting example step may be accomplished by contacting via any known method an owner or operator of the website the website owner or operator may be determined by querying the WHOIS database with an offer to provide a valid secure certificate receiving a request for a secure certificate and a certificate signing request from the website owner or operator verifying that the website is actually controlled by the owner or operator generating and transmitting the secure certificate to the owner or operator and collecting payment.

Step may be accomplished as a non limiting example by paying a remuneration to the partner after the secure certificate is sold to the individual or entity having control of the website . The remuneration may comprise any financial payment including but not limited to a percentage share of the secure certificate sales price a fixed fee and or a periodic payment for being a partner e.g. an affiliate member and may be paid via electronic funds transfer perhaps to the partner s banking account. Alternatively the partner may be paid in any conventional manner including but not limited to mailing a check.

The plugin may be received Step by any method known in the art or developed in the future of receiving software including but not limited to receiving an electronic communication e.g. email SMS HTTP request response and or function call response to from an API transmitting the plugin . As a non limiting example a computing device perhaps via a browser may receive an HTTP response to a previously transmitted request e.g. Step of . The HTTP response may be received along with a hyperlink to the plugin stored on a server enabling the computing device to download the plugin and install it on a browser Step .

As websites are browed in the browser Step perhaps by the partner or anyone using the partner s computing device the plugin may determine the secure certificate status of the website s as described in detail above. The plugin then may transmit a uniform resource locator for the website s the website s secure certificate status and the unique identifier for the partner . The plugin may be configured e.g. programmed to transmit the described data via any method of data receipt described above e.g. HTTP request response email message SMS message and or a function call response on an API . This data may then be stored in a database perhaps only accessible by property authenticated sales personnel of a certificate authority or domain registrar.

An Example Use of Methods and Systems for Determining Website Secure Certificate Status Via a Partner Browser Plugin.

As a non limiting example an Internet user may decide to join a certificate authorities affiliate program which may allow him to assist in generating sales leads for the certificate authority and receive payment for sales traceable to his referrals. To do so the Internet user may become a partner with the certificate authority perhaps via the certificate authorities website first website . Upon signing up with the certificate authority the partner may be assigned a unique identifier such as an affiliate member number that subsequently may be used to track his referrals.

The certificate authority in an effort to generate sales leads may store a browser plugin on a server Step for download by its partners . As described in detail above the plugin may comprise software configured e.g. programmed to determine the secure certificate status of a websites browsed in a partner s browser and transmit related data back to the certificate authority for use as a sales lead.

To download the plugin the partner may navigate to the certificate authorities website via the browser on his desktop computer computing device . He then may request the browser plugin by clicking a virtual button on the first website entitled request plugin Step . When clicked by the partner the button may transmit a HTTP request to a request receipt module running on a server communicatively coupled to the Internet.

The request then may be received by the certificate authorities server Step . Upon receipt a plugin coding module running on the server may automatically code a copy of the plugin with the requesting partner s unique identifier Step by setting available in the plugin s code to the partner s unique affiliate member number. The coded plugin then may be transmitted by a plugin transmission module also running on the server back to the partner Step as a hyperlink in an HTTP response to the partner s request. The hyperlink when clicked may automatically download the plugin to the partner s computing device for installation on its browser Step .

Once installed the plugin may monitor websites browsed in the browser Step and automatically determine the secure certificate status of browsed websites Step by reading the expiration dates of the websites SSL certificates. If the plugin identifies a website having a SSL certificate that will expire with a predetermined timeframe e.g. within 30 days it may transmit the website s URL the SSL certificate s expiration date i.e. its secure certificate status and the partner s unique affiliate member number i.e. unique identifier to a status receipt module running on the certificate authorities server Step . Other information such as the date and or time that a determination is made also may be transmitted by the plugin .

Upon receiving such information Step the status receipt module may store the SSL certificate s expiration date i.e. its secure certificate status and the partner s unique affiliate member number i.e. unique identifier in a database on the certificate authorities server . The database may be accessible to the certificate authorities sales personnel via an internal sales website hosted on the server . The stored data may be used to contact the website owner or operator to provide an SSL certificate renewal via the certificate authority.

Alternatively the data stored in the database may be accessed by a secure certificate sales module running on the server . The secure certificate sales module may contact the website owner or operator the website owner or operator may be determined by querying the WHOIS database with an offer to provide a valid secure certificate perhaps via an email message with a link to the sales page certificate authorities first website . If the certificate authority receives a request for a secure certificate and a certificate signing request from a website owner or operator it may then verify that the website is actually controlled by the owner or operator generate and transmit a SSL certificate to the owner or operator and collect payment Step .

Because the partner who referred the SSL certificate sale has been tracked through the above process by his unique identifier the certificate authority then may pay the partner a commission for the sale Step by electronically transferring funds into the partner s bank account. Alternatively the partner may be paid in any conventional manner including but not limited to mailing a check.

Other embodiments and uses of the above inventions will be apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art upon consideration of the specification and practice of the inventions disclosed herein. The specification and examples given should be considered exemplary only and it is contemplated that the appended claims will cover any other such embodiments or modifications as fall within the true scope of the inventions.

The Abstract accompanying this specification is provided to enable the United States Patent and Trademark Office and the public generally to determine quickly from a cursory inspection the nature and gist of the technical disclosure and in no way intended for defining determining or limiting the present inventions or any of its embodiments.

