---

title: Method and system for graphically differentiating user preferred securities from one another
abstract: A system for graphically differentiating user preferred securities from one another is disclosed. The system comprises a server system () and a client system (). The server system () is in communication with a security data source () that provides security data on a plurality of securities. The client system () is in communication with the server system () and provides M user specific criteria to the server system (). The server system () then analyzes the security data based upon the M user specific criteria and identifies user preferred securities from the plurality of securities. The server system () provides the client system () with data relating to the user preferred securities. The client system () uses N user specific parameters received from an input device () to generate an N dimensional graph that is populated with icons representing the user preferred securities, thereby graphically differentiating the user preferred securities from one another on a display device ().
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08548889&OS=08548889&RS=08548889
owner: Charles Schwab & Co., Inc.
number: 08548889
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100525
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 569 656 filed May 12 2000 entitled Method and System for Graphically Differentiating User Preferred Securities From One Another which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

This invention relates in general to a computer method and system for selecting a security and in particular to a computer method and system for graphically differentiating user preferred securities from one another in a multi dimensional graph.

Without limiting the scope of the present invention its background will be described with regard to trading common stock as an example.

In trading common stock there are three fundamental factors an investor must consider. These factors are what stock to buy when to buy that stock and when to sell that stock. There are enumerable models that attempt to help the investor identify these factors each of which are based upon particular criteria. Some of the models are best suited for the long term investor using a buy and hold approach. Other models are better suited for the short term investor including for example the day trader.

A typical long term investor may perform substantial research into a particular company in an effort to evaluate the future success of that company. For example a long term investor may evaluate whether the company has products or services that are likely to have an increase in sales the effectiveness of a company s research and development the profit margin of the company the size and effectiveness of the company s sales organization labor relations within the company the quality of management personnel at the company the competitiveness of the company in relation to other companies in the industry and long range outlook for profits.

In addition to these business related factors the long term investor may look at factors such as whether the company typically pays dividends on common stock the price to earnings ratio of the stock and the market capitalization of the company as well as earnings revenue and net income of the company. On the other hand an investor that is interested in short term investments may not perform such detailed research and instead may focus on factors such as volume of trades in that stock proximity to a milestone such as a fifty two week high difference between current volume and a historical volume number of daily highs or money flow in identifying a stock of interest.

Once an investor has identified a stock of interest the investor must then determine when to buy that stock. A long term investor might buy the stock regardless of price if it is being offered by a good company in a good industry banking on long term growth. Alternatively a long term investor may monitor factors such as business cycles the trend of interest rates governmental attitudes and the direction of inflation in making a decision to buy. The short term investor however may be more interested in such factors as the volatility of the stock or the liquidity of the stock in making such a buy decision.

The next step for an investor once they have entered such a position in a stock is to determine when to sell that stock. A long term investor may make a decision to sell based upon factors such as a fundamental change in a company that does not comport with the investor s original criteria for buying stock in that company a change in management in the company under performance of the stock the stock reaching an unacceptable low a belief that the stock has peaked or simply a belief that another investment has better long term prospects. While some of these factors may also be important to a short term investor a short term investor may focus more heavily on such factors as the continued momentum of the stock or simply making certain all open positions are closed by the end of a day.

Regardless of the investment strategies however these three factors what to buy when to buy and when to sell remain key elements in any successful investment strategy. Therefore a need has arisen for a system and method for identifying stocks that meet specific criteria selected by the investor. A need has also arisen for such a system and method that allows the investor to differentiate between the stocks that meet the investor s criteria.

The present invention disclosed herein comprises a computer based system and method for graphically differentiating user preferred securities from one another. The system and method allow investors to identify securities that meet specific criteria selected by the investor. In addition the system and method allow investors to differentiate between the securities that meet the investor s criteria.

The system of the present invention comprises a server system and a client system that are communicably linked together. The server system is in communication with a security data source that provides security data relating to a plurality of securities. The client system interrogates the server system by providing user specific criteria to the server system. These user specific criteria are presented to the server system in the form of a query that is processed by the server system to identify which securities from the plurality of securities meet the user specific criteria. The securities that meet the user specific criteria are referred to herein as the user preferred securities. Any number of user specific criteria can be included in the query to the server system. The number of user specific criteria will generically be referred to herein as M user specific criteria wherein M is a positive integer. As an example the investor may enter a query with three user specific criteria such as top ten securities that are 1 trading at least 2 above the 60 simple moving average 2 that are trading at least 15 above open price and 3 that have hit at least 10 daily highs.

Once the user preferred securities have been identified the server system provides the client system with data relating the user preferred securities. The client system uses this data to populate a multi dimensional graph which is constructed based upon a set of user specific parameters. The user specific parameters are used to define the display configuration on the multi dimensional graph. Any number of user specific parameters may be selected by the user. The number of user specific parameters will generically be referred to herein as N user specific parameters wherein N is a positive integer. The number of dimensions of the multi dimensional graph is the same as the number of user specific parameters. Thus the multi dimensional will have N dimensions. As an example the investor may enter five user specific parameters such as current price close price change from close volume and change from open as the user specific parameters. These five user specific parameters will then be used by the client system to generate a graph having five dimensions. As such after the user preferred securities have been identified based upon the user specific criteria and the display configuration of the multi dimensional graph has been defined based upon the user specific parameters the user preferred securities may be graphically differentiated from one another on a display device.

Use of the present system allows each investor to create a trading model that suits their goals. Each investor is able to identify user preferred securities based upon that investor s user specific criteria. Once these user preferred securities are identified the investor may view these user preferred securities in a multi dimensional graph that is generated based upon that investor s user specific parameters thereby graphically differentiating the user preferred securities from one another. Using the present system the investor may modify their trading model for example by changing the user specific parameters to view this set of user preferred securities in a different graphical configuration by changing the user specific criteria to generate a new set of user preferred securities or both. In addition the user may simultaneously create and graphically display numerous sets of user preferred securities such that the user may utilize multiple trading models.

In one embodiment of the system of the present invention the security data may be a real time security data stream that is parsed by the server system into a predetermined number of security related factors. The security data may include fundamental data historical data and analytical data relating to the plurality of securities as well as other data that a security trader may find valuable.

In one embodiment of the system of the present invention the user may select at least 3 user specific parameters which will be used to create a graph having at least 3 dimensions for graphically differentiating the user preferred securities from one another. In another embodiment of the system of the present invention the user may select at least 5 user specific parameters which will be used to create a graph having at least 5 dimensions for graphically differentiating the user preferred securities from one another. Generally speaking the user will select N user specific parameters that are presented in an N dimensional graph. The N dimensions are graphically represented by for example icons that are positioned within a coordinate system of axes icons of various colors icons of various sizes icons of various shapes icons with various shadings icons including character symbology designations and the like.

In the method of the present invention security data for a plurality of securities is provided to a server system from a security data source. Next a client system provides user specific criteria for analyzing the security data to the server system. The server system then identifies the user preferred securities from the plurality of securities based upon the user specific criteria. The server system returns to the client system data relating to the user preferred securities. The client system receives and processes a set of user specific parameters used to generate the display configuration of a multi dimensional graph. Finally the user preferred securities are populated into the multi dimensional graph on the client system thereby graphically differentiating the user preferred securities from one another on the client system.

The present invention also comprises a computer program embodied on a computer readable medium on the server system and a computer program embodied on a computer readable medium on the client system that are in communication with one another. The computer program embodied on the computer readable medium on the server system includes a code segment for receiving security data for a plurality of securities from a security data source a code segment for receiving user specific criteria from a client system a code segment for analyzing the security data based upon the user specific criteria a code segment for identifying the user preferred securities from the plurality of securities and a code segment for providing the client system with data relating to the user preferred securities to be graphically represented in a multi dimensional graph on the client system.

The computer program embodied on the computer readable medium on the client system includes a code segment for providing user specific criteria to the server system a code segment for receiving user specific parameters from the user for generating a display configuration of a multi dimensional graph a code segment for receiving data from the server system relating to the user preferred securities and a code segment for populating the multi dimensional graph with icon representing the user preferred securities.

While the making and using of various embodiments of the present invention is discussed in detail below it should be appreciated that the present invention provides many applicable inventive concepts which can be embodied in a wide variety of specific contexts. The specific embodiments discussed herein are merely illustrative of specific ways to make and use the invention and do not delimit the scope of the invention.

Referring now to therein is depicted a platform layout of the system for graphically differentiating user preferred securities from one another in a multi dimensional graph of the present invention that is generally designated . System includes a server system and a client system . Client system may include any number of peripheral input storage and display devices such as a keyboard a mouse and a monitor . Server system may communicate with client system by any suitable means. In one illustrated embodiment server system is in communication with a client system via a direct connection such as a T1 line a frame a dial up modem or the like. In the other illustrated embodiment server system is in communication with the other client system via an internet connection .

Server system is also in communication with one or more security data sources via a T1 line a high speed modem or other transmission line using for example a direct socket connection such as a TCP IP connection. Security data sources provide data feeds to server system from a plurality of sources such as PC Quote S P Comstock NQDS and the like that contain all types of information relating to thousands of securities that are traded for example on the New York Stock Exchange NYSE NASDAQ Electronic Communications Networks ECN and the like. The data feeds contain a variety of information relating to each security. For example the data feeds may contain level one information which is best ask and best bid information as well as time and sales information and level two information which is includes detailed market maker exchange information. In addition the data feeds may include fundamental information such as market capitalization sector information price to earning ratio 52 week highs and lows and the like.

Server system includes an application programming interface that takes each data feed from the various security data sources which are typically in a proprietary format and processes it for real time dissemination to client system . As the amount of information received and processed by server system from security data sources is voluminous each client system typically receives only the information that the user of that client system requests. As such each client system requests and receives only a small subset of the information processed by server system . For example one user may be interested in securities that are approaching a 52 week high and that have a five day average volume above a particular threshold. In this case the user would make the appropriate request from a client system to the server system for processing. The server system then returns only the information relating to the securities that meet this user s criteria to that client system . Likewise another user may be interested in securities having a high current volume that fall within a particular price range. Again in this case the user would make the appropriate request from a client system to server system which would return only the information relating to the securities that meet this user s criteria to that client system .

Referring now to therein is depicted a more detailed diagram of server system of the system for graphically differentiating user preferred securities from one another. Server system comprises numerous integrated servers that enable the processing of security data received from security data sources for dissemination to various client systems based upon the request made from each client system . Server system includes a quote server a chart server and book servers . Quote server receives the data feed from one of the security data sources and parses the data based upon the feed parsing API. The parsed information may be sent via direct connection to a client system upon request by a client system . In the illustrated embodiment however the connection between quote server and client system include a boss server a mid level server and an HTTP tunneling server as will be explained in more detail below. As such quote server may disseminate real time first level security data real time second level security data and the like to client system . For speed of delivery to client systems some of this data preferably resides in the cache memory of quote server or may alternatively reside in RAM.

Chart server receives the data feed from one of the security data sources and parses the data based upon the feed parsing API. The parsed information is further processed by database manager such that information relating to the securities may be stored in database . Database is used for historical charting of security data. For example database builds one two three and five minute charts for intraday activity as well as historical charts for daily volume daily highs and lows and the like for specified time increments such as the prior week month or year. Database is preferably an in memory database utilizing cache memory and RAM such that information requested by a client system can be disseminated as fast as possible. For example information relating to the most frequently requested securities stays in cache memory while information relating to the less frequently requested securities resides in RAM.

Each book server receives the data feed from one of the security data sources and parses that data based upon the feed parsing API. Each book server receives data from a specific ECN. The ECN data feeds contain not only the first and second level security data but also information relating to all the available asks and bids of each security.

Mid level server monitors information on a subset of the securities on which data feeds are received. While quote server chart server and book servers monitor all securities perhaps 12 000 to 15 000 or more mid level server only monitors those securities that are frequently requested by a client system perhaps several hundred to a few thousand. For example mid level server monitors all open positions that users presently have as well as additional securities that are being watched by such users i.e. those that are part of real time user requests and historically active securities. Use of mid level server adds flexibility to server system by reducing the load on the other servers. In addition the use of mid level server enhances the speed at which information is disseminated to client systems by among other things gathering combining and placing in cache memory data from quote server chart server and book servers such that a request does not have to be processed by more than one server.

It should be understood by those skilled in the art that the use of the term server herein may mean a single physical server or multiple physical servers. For example it is preferable to have multiple quote servers at least one for each exchange and multiple book servers at least one for each ECN. Likewise it is preferable to have multiple chart servers and multiple mid level servers depending upon the amount of information being processed. Also it should be understood by those skilled in the art that the servers described herein that make up server system may comprise any suitable processor. For example a Dell dual 500 MHZ processor with 512 MB of memory operating on a Microsoft Windows NT 4.0 platform has been found to be suitable.

In addition to the above described servers server system may include a boss server that manages the operation of the other servers. Boss server optimizes the processing of server system by routing connection requests from client systems to the servers within server system for example to a specific mid level server that are presently operating with appropriate capacity to handle the new connection which avoids overloading any of the servers.

For connection between server system and client systems over the internet server system may also includes HTTP tunneling server . HTTP tunneling server allows client systems to work through fire walls proxy servers and the like.

Referring now to therein is depicted a more detailed diagram of server system of the system for graphically differentiating user preferred securities from one another in a multi dimensional graph of the present invention. In addition to the above described servers server system also comprises a decision support server . As with the mid level server described above with reference to decision support server perform specific tasks which enable server system to be more responsive to client systems .

Decision support server provides the data feed to client systems that enables the creation of a multi dimensional graph on the client systems that allows for the graphical differentiation of user preferred securities from one another. In the illustrated embodiment decision support server receives data feeds from chart server book servers and quote server . In addition decision support server receives a data feed from data compiled in database . As explained in more detail below decision support server receives queries that contain various criteria from users of a client system which are processed by decision support server to identify particular securities that are of interest to users of a client system . The criteria range from fundamental information such as the market cap dividends 52 week highs and lows to technical analysis including Bollinger bands RSI moving averages money flow and other charting techniques. More specifically but by way of example only the following is a list of some the criteria that may be utilized by decision support server 

Change from 5 Day Avg Close Difference between the average close for the last five days and the Current Price expressed as a dollar value 

Change from 5 Day Avg Close Difference between the average close for the last five days and the Current Price expressed as a percentage 

Change from 20 Day Avg Close Difference between the average close for the last 20 days and the Current Price expressed as a dollar value 

Change from 20 Day Avg Close Difference between the average close for the last 20 days and the Current Price expressed as a percentage 

Change from 1 Month Avg Close Difference between the average close for the last month and the Current Price expressed as a dollar value 

Change from 1 Month Avg Close Difference between the average close for the last month and the Current Price expressed as a percentage 

Change from 6 Month Avg Close Difference between the average close for the last 6 months and the Current Price expressed as a dollar value 

Change from 6 Month Avg Close Difference between the average close for the last 6 months and the Current Price expressed as a percentage 

Change from YTD Avg Close Difference between the average close for the last year and the Current Price expressed as a dollar value 

Change from YTD Avg Close Difference between the average close for the last year and the Current Price expressed as a percentage 

Volume Over Yesterday s Vol Difference between current Volume and yesterday s volume expressed as a percentage 

Volume Over 5 Day Avg Vol Difference between current Volume and the average volume for the last five days expressed as a percentage 

15 60 120 Day EMA While similar to the SMA above the exponential moving average uses a smoothing factor to give more weight to recent prices while still allowing all data in the window to influence the average 

Rate of Change Change in price between the current price and the close 6 days ago divided by the price 6 days ago 

10 30 50 Day RSI Relative Strength Index indicates the degree of positive and negative movement by the stock on a scale of 0 weakest to 100 strongest . Determined by figuring the ratio of the average up closes for the last 9 29 or 49 days using today s Current Price for the 10th 30th or 50th day divided by the sum of the average up closes and the average down closes for the same period. This ratio is multiplied by 100 

10 30 50 Day RSI from Close Relative Strength Index indicates the degree of positive and negative movement by the stock on a scale of 0 weakest to 100 strongest . Determined by figuring the ratio of the average up closes for the last 10 30 or 50 days not including today if prior to close divided by the sum of the average up closes and the average down closes for the same period. This ratio is multiplied by 100 

Bollinger Bands The center is an n interval exponential moving average. The top and bottom lines are placed in standard deviations above and below the centerline. Since standard deviations are a measure of volatility the bands widen during volatile price action and contract when the trading range tightens 

MACD Trend following momentum indicator that uses three exponential moving averages a short or fast average a long or slow average and an exponential average of their difference the last being used as a signal or trigger line 

OBV On Balance Volume Indicator that relates volume to price changes by adding volume to a running total when the price closes up for a period and subtracts the volume if the stock closes down for a period 

20 40 60 Day Momentum Measures the amount that a security s price has changed over the last 20 40 or 60 days. If today hasn t closed yet it uses the current price for today s close 

20 40 60 Day Momentum from Close Measures the amount that a security s price has changed over the last 20 40 or 60 closes 

Money Flow Indicates with a dollar value whether money is flowing into or out of a security. Calculated by subtracting the downtick and adding the uptick for every tick of the trading day 

Williams R Measures the percentage to which a security is overbought or oversold based on the position of the current period s close to the range of prices over a time period 

PE Ratio Measures how expensive a security is based upon the cost an investor in a security must pay per dollar of current annual earnings 

Dividend Taxable payment declared by a company s board of directors and given to its shareholders out of the company s current or retained earnings 

DPS Ratio Dividends Per Share Ratio indicates the to dollar amount of dividends issued to stockholders per share 

On the client side the user of a client system makes a request on decision support server based upon one or more of these and other available criteria. The user may select any number of criteria which will be referred to herein as M user specific criteria. Decision support server then identifies the securities that meet these M user specific criteria which are referred to herein as user preferred securities. As best seen in the user of client system opens an Add query window which allows the user to select from built in and user constructed preloaded queries or allows the user to construct new queries. These queries define the M user specific criteria used to select the user preferred securities. More specifically Add query window includes an available queries selection box that shows a list of available queries. The built in queries are indicated by a icon such as 5 dayave query . The user constructed queries are indicated by a u icon such as hicount query . Add query window also includes Delete File button that allows a user to delete user constructed queries a Save button that allows the user to save user constructed queries or query lists and a Load button that allows the user to access a saved query list. Add query window allows the user to display or hide built in user constructed queries or both by operating a Built in query button and a User constructed queries button . By selecting a particular query and pushing Description button the detailed search criteria of the selected query is provided to the user. For example if the user selected hicount query and requested a description a description dialog box would appear having a description such as top 20 stocks hitting daily highs today. 

Add query window allows the user to construct a multi dimensional graph that differentiates between the user preferred securities that are identified as a result of the user specific criteria in the selected query. By pressing the Add Graph button the user preferred securities are graphically represented to the user on client system as to will be explained in more detail below. Alternatively or additionally the user may view the user preferred securities in a list format by pressing the Add List button .

The user may construct new queries by pushing the Advanced button in the Add query window . This will pull up a Query Construction Results window as seen in . In the Query Construction Results window the first step in creating a query is specifying in Query box a criteria and a condition that securities must satisfy to be included in the query results. The user may then add more filters to further refine the query. For example a user selects a name for the query in name box . Then the user chooses the criteria to query from the pull down menu in List box . The user determines how to limit the query results by selecting the Query from Top button which returns the top N securities sorted by the query criteria that meet the query and filter requirements the Query from Bottom button which returns the bottom N securities sorted by the query quantity that meet the query and filter requirements or the Query by Threshold button which prompts the user to select a relationship in Relation box i.e. greater between etc. and enter a number in the Threshold box and the Threshold box if BETWEEN is selected in Relation box .

To add additional criteria or filters to this query the user selects a criteria in the Available Filter box which is used in conjunction with various factors selected in the Filtered by box which create the criteria in the Applied Filters box . After the user selects the desired criteria from Available Filter box the user selects whether to filter by threshold quantity delta or delta percent in Filtered by box . If the user selects the Threshold button the user then must also select a relationship in Relation box i.e. greater between etc. and enter a number in the Threshold box and Threshold field if BETWEEN is selected in Relation box . For example to set a filter that will only list securities with a greater than 15 change from open the user chooses Change from Open in the Available Filters box GREATER in the Relation box and 0.15 in Threshold box .

Selecting the Quantity button allows the user to compare an available filter quantity against another quantity using one of the relationship operators. For example to set a filter that will only list stocks with a Volume greater than the one month average volume the user chooses Volume in the Available Filters box GREATER in the Relation box and 1 Month Avg Volume in the Quantity box .

Selecting the Delta button allows the user to subtract the selection in the Quantity box from the originally selected criteria. If the difference falls within the Relation Threshold entered by the user the security will is appear in the query results. For example to set a filter that will only list stocks that are th or less off their 52 week high the user chooses Current Price in the Available Filters box 52 Week High in the Quantity box GREATER OR EQUAL in the Relation box and 0.125 in Threshold box .

Selecting the Delta button allows the user to subtract the selection made in the Quantity box from the originally selected criteria then divide the result by the originally selected criteria. If the final result falls within the Relation Threshold entered by the user the security will appear in the query results. For example to set a filter that will only list stocks within 2 above their 60 Day Simple Moving Average the user chooses Current Price in the Available Filters box 60 Day SMA in the Quantity box BETWEEN in the Relation box 0 zero in Threshold box and 0.02 in Threshold box .

Once the user has selected all of the desired filters the user presses the Apply button to add the filter to the query. When the user is finished building the entire query the user presses the Submit button which saves the query and sends it to decision support server of server system . As explained above the user may view the textual description of the selected query in the User Query list or Built in Query list by pressing Description button . Another query may be created by pressing the New button .

Use of the above described built in queries or user constructed queries allows the user to define the M user specific criteria and design a decision support tool that provides information to the user based upon the users trading style. Once the user has selected a particular query the user pushes the add graph button of to generate a multi dimensional graph for the user that graphically differentiates the user preferred securities from one another.

As seen in a multi dimensional graph is depicted displaying the results of a user selected query. Graph includes a coordinate system that has an X axis a Y axis and a Z axis . Displayed on graph are a variety of icons which represent specific user preferred securities that were identified by decision support server based upon the user specific criteria in the M user selected query. Specifically five icons representing these user preferred securities are depicted as icon icon icon icon and icon .

In the illustrated embodiment graph is a three dimensional graph wherein the dimensions are represented by the three axes of coordinate system . As will be explained in more detail below the user selects the various parameters that are represented in graph . In the illustrated embodiment the parameter represented by X axis is current price the parameter represented by Y axis is the prior days close price and the parameter represented by Z axis is the change in price from close.

Once graph has been generated based upon the M user specific criteria in the user selected query the user may further differentiate the user preferred securities using various features of the graphical user interface of client system . For example the user may select a particular parameter in the parameter box then modify the display on graph by manipulating slider bar system . In the illustrated embodiment the user has selected the current price parameter in parameter box . The end points of the scale of X axis are displayed in box and box . To change this scale the user may operate sliders and to adjust the scale. For example if the user is now only interested in securities having a current price greater than 100 the user would operate slider to the right until 100 appeared in the box . This operation would hide any securities that are in graph that have a current price is less than 100.

The user may also manipulate the position of graph in the graphical user interface by rotating wheels and . For example as best seen in coordinates system may be rotated such that the user has a direct view of the plane formed by X axis and Z axis . This view allows the user to more precisely identify the current price and the change from close of the user preferred securities that are represented by icons . Referring again to the user of client system may also change the size of graph to more precisely view a particular area of graph by rotating wheel .

If the user of client system wants to know which security is represented by a particular icon and wants to view additional information about that particular security the user may select that security and press button to display in list format various criteria relating to the selected security. As best seen in if icon were selected and it represented ebay the user would be able to view a plurality of criteria relating to ebay in a security list view window .

Referring now to therein is depicted a four dimensional graph that graphically differentiates user preferred securities from one another. As with graph of graph of uses coordinate system for displaying the three user selected parameters of current price close and change from close. In addition graph of also utilizes the size of the icons to represent a fourth parameter which in the illustrated embodiment is volume. The relative size of the icons compare the volumes of the user preferred securities displayed in graph . Specifically the security represented by icon and the security represented by icon have a relatively low volume while the security represented by icon has a relatively high volume. The security represented by icon and the security represented by icon have volumes that fall between that of the security represented by icon and the security represented by icon .

Referring next to therein is displayed a five dimensional graph . Graph displays five user selected parameters which include current price on X axis close on Y axis change from close on Z axis volume based upon the size of icons and change from open based upon the color of icons . In the illustrated example the color spectrum indicated by stippling represents different percent changes from open ranging from zero to twenty percent.

Referring now to therein is depicted a six dimensional graph used to graphically differentiate user preferred securities from one another. In the illustrated embodiment the six dimensions are represented by the three axis of the coordinates system the size of icons the color of icons and the character symbology within icons . In this example the six parameters represented on the six dimensional graph are current price using X axis close using Y axis change from close using Z axis volume represented by the relative size of icons percent change from open represented by the color of icons and the relative market capitalization represented by the numerical character symbology within icons .

Referring now to therein is depicted a seven dimensional graph for graphically differentiating user preferred securities from one another. Graph allows the user to specify seven parameters for viewing the user preferred securities. Specifically current price is represented on X axis close is represented Y axis change from close is represented on Z axis volume is represented by the size of icons percent change from open is represented by the color of icons rank order of market capitalization is represented by the numerical character symbology of icons and relation to the five day simple moving average of the preferred securities is represented by the shape of icons . The triangles representing securities that are currently trading above the five day simple moving average the circles represented by securities trading below the five day simple moving average and the square representing a security currently traded at its five day simply moving average.

Referring generally to the user of client system views the user preferred securities that were identified based upon M user specific criteria that were sent to decision support server for processing. The user preferred securities are placed on an N dimensional graph based upon N user specific parameters. As should be apparent to those skilled in the art the user may select any number of user specific criteria for identifying user preferred securities. Likewise even though have illustrated the use of between three and seven user specific parameters the user of the present system could select any number of user specific parameters which could be displayed in multi dimensional graphs having a larger number or a smaller number of dimensional characteristics. Additionally it should be noted by those skilled in the art that the M user specific criteria used for selecting the user preferred securities may be the same as the N user specific parameters. Alternatively however the M user specific criteria and the N user specific parameters may have some overlapping characteristics or no overlapping characteristics.

Referring next to therein is depicted a graphical user interface that allows the user of client system to change the parameters associated with the various dimensions on a graph . In the illustrated embodiment five parameters are shown in Axes box . Specifically in Axes box the X axis represents current price the Y axis represents close the Z axis represents current price low size represents volume and color has not been assigned a characteristic. The parameters are assigned based on a pick list within Quantities box . To assign a characteristic to one of the parameters in Axes box the user selects that parameter for example color and then selects a characteristic from Quantities box . Thereafter the user pushes the Assign button to assign that characteristic to a parameter. If the user wants to redesignate new characteristics to each of the parameters listed in Axes box the user pushes the Clear button . Once the user has selected the desired characteristic for each of the parameters the user pushes the Okay button to view a graph with those selected parameters.

Referring now to therein is depicted a graphical user interface that may be viewed on monitor of client system . This graphical user interface includes graph graph graph graph and graph . Each of these graphs represent a particular trading strategy that the user of the system of the present invention may select. In this view the user of the system of the present invention may select any one of the securities represented by any one of the icons on any one of the graphs . When the user selects the desired security real time information relating to that security appears in stock box . Specifically stock box includes level one information level two information as well as time and sales information relating to the selected security.

As such the system for graphically differentiating user preferred securities from one another of the present invention allows the user to operate multiple trading models using multiple N dimensional graphs such that a tremendous amount of information is available to the user in an understandable format. Specifically in the illustrated embodiment twenty five user preferred securities have been identified based upon five different trading models each of which has its own M user specific criteria associated therewith. In addition the user may select N number of parameters in each graph for displaying the user preferred securities identified in each trading model.

While has been described as having five graphs each having five user preferred securities displayed thereon it should be understood by those skilled in the art that the number of graphs as well as the number of user preferred securities in each graph may be changed and is selected based upon user preference. As such the user may receive as much information as the user believes is helpful in identifying which securities to trade.

Referring now to and with reference to therein is depicted a flow diagram of a method for graphically differentiating user preferred securities from one another in an N dimensional graph. The method begins at step . In step real time security data is provided from a security data source to server system . Server system processes the security data feed using all available filters in step to generate filtered data for all available securities in step . In step the user provides M user specific criteria to the server system from a client system such that the server system may identify the securities that meet the M user specific criteria i.e. user preferred securities in step . In step the user provides N user specific parameters to the client system which are used in step to create an N dimensional graph that is populated by icons representing the user preferred securities which ends the process at step . As such the computer method and system for graphically differentiating user preferred securities from one another in a multi dimensional graph provides the user with a decision support tool that allows the user to identify securities of interest.

While this invention has been described with a reference to illustrative embodiments this description is not intended to be construed in a limiting sense. Various modifications and combinations of the illustrative embodiments as well as other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to persons skilled in the art upon reference to the description. It is therefore intended that the appended claims encompass any such modifications or embodiments.

