---

title: Geographical location authentication method
abstract: A system and non-transitory computer-readable storage medium for authenticating votes or transactions received from a mobile device comprising a computer programmed with a set of computer-readable instructions and a database accessed by mobile device reading a durable computer readable medium stored in a computer server or mobile communications device module, the database comprising a registered geographical location and corresponding postal mail delivery address, means to receive a vote in an election or a transaction over a wireless carrier network, means to determine geographical location of a device which transmitted the transaction over the wireless network comprising cell tower triangulation or Assisted-GPS and means to reject vote or transaction if geographical location of the device which transmitted the vote or transaction is not within a predetermined distance range from the geographical location for the registered postal mail delivery address latitude or longitude coordinates embodied and executable in a physical medium.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08700003&OS=08700003&RS=08700003
owner: 
number: 08700003
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20100901
---
This application is a national stage of International Application No. PCT US2010 047503 filed Sep. 1 2010 which claims priority to U.S. Non Provisional Application No. 12 635 847 filed Dec. 11 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 8 090 351 which in turn claims priority from U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 275 603 filed Sep. 1 2009. All priority applications are incorporated herein by reference.

Consumers utilize the internet from devices such as mobile phones and portable computing devices to conduct trustworthy online banking transfers or internet based purchase services and goods with a credit card account. These processes use various electronic token and encryption means with passwords caller ID technology and other biometric security functions to authorize access or complete a purchase online. In contrast voting in official governmental and other election vote processes have not been able to enjoy the same automated trustworthy methods due to the absence of a reliable paper verifiable method to count a vote using the internet with a method to mitigate voter fraud.

The current state of art in online voting for state local and international governmental and other trustworthy elections e.g. shareholder proxy vote election of a board of directors a vote on a local community issue or policy popularity selection process etc. is primarily directed to applications for voter registration that can be accomplished online but not voting online by internet with a highly reliable or trustworthy voter verification and authentication data method. Instead a voter is registered by internet methods and computer printouts to record a signature and instructed to then vote at a physical polling location where a voter s identity is re authenticated and re verified. Only then is a printed ballot presented for selection and recording.

The other current approach is to use ordinary absentee ballots distributed by U.S. Postal Service mail to the voter s home address and then to allow voters to return them online. A voter typically goes to a web site and downloads a file containing an absentee ballot and a cover sheet. After printing out the file the voter fills out the cover sheet giving his name and other signature and certification information and the ballot. He she scans the cover sheet and ballot and uploads the scan to a web site or sends the ballot as fax. Election authority or authorized officials or individuals collect and print the resulting file and treat the printout like an ordinary absentee ballot.

Many criticize the security of these prior art systems since distribution of blank ballots under the prior art cannot be secure enough since returning filled out ballots from an ordinary computer and browser presents authentication and security risks. There are integrity and authentication issues because several things can go wrong here an attacker could subvert the voter s computer and have it modify the ballots before sending them they could get phished and the phisher could modify their ballot appropriately before passing it on to the central site. Finally the attacker could subvert the central database server and modify the ballots before they are printed out. These current prior art methods provide no way for a voting authority or other administrator of the voting process to verify or authenticate the physical Postal Service mailing address of the voter or geographical location of the voter as a data authentication and verification method to accept a vote for processing using a consumer device. Further supporting the method s improvement over prior art is the fact geographical data reported by consumer device is reliable and can be considered highly resistant to any broad scale attack or spoofing. That is because a consumer cannot gain easy access to a personal consumer device to open it and alter. In addition each device typically includes a normal password authentication requirement to access the device and these and other SIM card identity elements in combination are enough to avoid a casual hacker installing a rogue GPS driver onto a consumer device for the purpose of misleading location data of the device for voting.

While the current art does use tools of internet to make a significant impact on current paper based fill in ballot election systems they have heretofore been unknown to use the method of cell tower triangulation geolocation data at the time of a vote and capturing and assembling data reported by a consumer device with other voter identity and Mobile Sensor API device sensor data gathered and sent to a computer server over the internet as a data authentication and verification method in context of internet voting systems or methods.

U.S. Publication No. 20050101307 by Torsten et al. teaches a method to perform voting as well as a vote server a mobile terminal and a computer program product used for voting. The vote server generates a unique transaction number associated with a specific voting item and a specific subscriber. It transmits the unique transaction number together with the specific voting item to the mobile terminal of the specific subscriber. The mobile terminal sends back a response comprising the vote together with the transaction number and a unique identification number associated with the subscriber of the mobile terminal. The vote server compares the received transaction number and the received identification number with stored values and accepts the vote contained in the response if the check is positive. The application also describes the application of a SIM card when a mobile terminal receives a voting item from a vote server and performs a subscriber authentication based process.

U.S. Publication No. 20090072032 by Cardone teaches an apparatus for executing a trusted electronic voting system under the control of an election authority comprising a. at least one electronic voting machine b. an election configuration for said voting machine in said electronic voting system and c. a trusted computing platform for said voting machine in said electronic voting system. While Cordone does provide a trustworthy voting platform such platform is based on voting at a polling place and fails to teach the advantages and improvements of a voting with a consumer mobile device.

U.S. Publication 20090187492 by Hammad shows how the GPS feature in mobile phones has been used for authentication outside the internet election voting environment. The Hammad invention is directed to authenticating a portable consumer device that is used to conduct a transaction at a merchant. The portable consumer device is authenticated based on location data coming from at least two different sources. For example first location information may be received from a mobile communication device possessed by a consumer and second location information may be received from a POS terminal operated by a merchant conducting the transaction. If the first location information and the second location information correspond to each other e.g. they match then the server computer may authenticate the financial credit card payment transaction. The method of Hammad does not teach registering a geographical location of a voter s postal mail delivery address prior to an election wherein the geographical location consists of longitude and latitude coordinates and storing the resultant registration data in a computer server. It does not teach voting system and methods and instead is directed to financial transaction processing methods. Instead Hammad 2009 0187492 describes using GPS function of mobile device to authenticate but in that case the mobile device has to be in the same location more or less to a Point of Sale POS terminal when the device is used for a sale transaction. The teaching of verifying that a mobile device is where it is supposed to be geographically to carry out a transaction is known. The instant invention for an internet based mobile vote transaction verified by postal mail delivery address instead of a sale is unobvious and produces unpredictable results. The instant application also differs in requiring registration of the geographical location of the voter s postal address prior to an election. Hammad doesn t require any pre registration since the Hammad transaction is not carried out at the mobile device owner s home or registered postal mail address in a computer server system.

U.S. Publication 20090149192 by Vargus teaches a device locate service where the GPS feature in mobile phones can be used to locate or remote manage mobile devices such that when the device is misplaced the device locate service can communicate and provide GPS location signal for a method to disable the device and locate it.

Internet voting using a mobile phone device has also been previously discussed in the Republic of Estonia a country in Northern Europe. In 2007 Estonia became the world s first country to allow voters in a national parliamentary election to cast their ballots over the Internet. To vote Estonians put their identification card which has an electronic chip on it into a reader attached to their computer and then enter two passwords. The votes are then encrypted for security and opened by the national election committee using a private key on Election Day. The Estonian method has not been adopted in any other country because of certain problems with exclusive use of SIM cards for authentication among which are the fact that the SIM cards are controlled by cellular network carriers and have limited web services processing capabilities.

Numerous other prior art and authentication technique with a consumer device such as a mobile phone or Smartphone is typically applied as a caller ID function of the home phone number or other biometric data function when a consumer calls their local cable company to enquire or to pay a bill. Such automated systems know automatically that a call is from that person s account based on the phone number transmitted by the phone device that is captured by a Caller ID method at a cable company. Similarly new credit cards sent by postal mail must often be activated by calling from one s home number on record in the database of the card issuer. Under these methods it is relatively possible to change the phone identification number that is shown in a Caller ID function to another number for the purpose of misleading or conducting a fraudulent authentication method. Caller ID methods suffer from certain disadvantages when applied to mobile device voting authentication. For example not all mobile devices allow caller identification by the recipient and second the voter may have more than one mobile device and would have to register the phone number for each of them so the voting system would recognize each device.

In contrast to current Caller ID methods there are no known methods for a device user to modify the GPS data coordinate transmission processes without disabling the entire GPS data sensor that would render one or more of instant method teachings by Klein to become inoperable. Therefore the recent technological achievements in the ability of the latest consumer devices to determine and report cell tower triangulation geolocation data coordinates together with other identity data over the internet creates a significantly more trustworthy method to enable a voting process with a consumer device associated with the latitude and longitude data matching to a pre registered Postal Service mail address data distance range to perform a novel and unpredictable voting method.

With the objective of improving on voter authentication methods and systems to facilitate voting in an election by a voter using a mobile device such as a mobile telephone over a cellular phone network or similar wireless communication device network wherein the election authorities use a computer system to receive authenticate and count votes I have discovered a computer implemented method for authenticating a mobile device for electronic voting over the internet comprising

a. storing a geographical location of a voter s postal mail delivery address prior to an election wherein the geographical location comprises longitude and latitude coordinates in a database stored in a computer server to which an election authority has access 

b. upon receiving from a mobile device at the computer server an internet vote by the voter in the election and the geographical location of the device determining whether the geographical location of the mobile device is within a predetermined distance from the registered geographical location for the voter by cell tower triangulation geolocation A GPS or Assisted GPS and

c. if the geographical location of the mobile device is not within the predetermined distance from the registered postal address for the voter rejecting the internet vote.

In another aspect the invention comprises a computer system for authenticating votes received from a voter s mobile device comprising a computer programmed with a set of computer readable instructions and a database stored in a computer readable medium the database comprising a registered voter and a geographical location for the registered voter means to receive a vote in an election over a cellular or wireless network means to determine the geographical location of a device which transmitted the vote over the network and means to reject the vote if the geographical location of the device which transmitted the vote is not within a predetermined distance from the geographical location for the registered voter stored in the database.

Authentication and verification techniques can be combined and transmitted by a wireless consumer device to create an improved more convenient trustworthy and reliable voting method by virtue of supplemental and automated authentication data capture and cell tower triangulation geolocation data sensing receiver and reporting combined with internet access vote processing applications that can be uploaded or downloaded into many consumer devices. This computer readable data can be transmitted by the device to a computer server that can capture and compare data in a server to better authenticate a voter and related vote cast by an individual voter using an internet connected consumer device for internet voting.

Embodiments of the invention are directed to authenticating and verifying a portable consumer device and individual voter used to conduct a voting event over the internet by cell tower triangulation data communication function and computer server database comparison in the context of voting systems. The portable consumer device is authenticated based on location data coming from at least two different sources. For example first location information may be received from a mobile communication device possessed by a consumer and second location information may be received from a voter registration database operated by a voting authority conducting the voting process and tabulation of results. If the first location information and the second location information correspond to each other e.g. they match then the server computer may authenticate the vote event. In some embodiments the mobile communication device may be the portable consumer device. In other embodiments the mobile communication device may be separate from the portable consumer device. For example the portable consumer device could be a SIM card module that can be inserted into the portable consumer device to provide voter authentication and software processing applications for voting using the device.

Similar to the aspect described in relation to the wireless device implements one of a plurality of voter ballot access applications that provides for presentation of voter ballot or voter selection choice content by voter . In this regard the plurality of application may include one or more voter executing applications that execute or present voter content .

Additionally the plurality of applications implemented on the wireless device may include voter requesting application that provide for user inputted vote requests or requests alternate durable computer readable network content in reply to the request. In addition the content that is presented in durable computer readable content requesting application from a data sensor electronically reading data from an active pixel sensor camera or a Microsoft Tag and or NFC tag s read as a durable computer readable medium for inventive voting process .

Additionally wireless device may include a location determination module operable for determining the geographic location of the wireless device . The location determination module may provide for satellite based location determination terrestrial or network based location determination or a hybrid location determination including both satellite and terrestrial based location determination.

According to some implementation of the invention a suitable consumer device shown as a Smartphone in the requires the ability to geocode that is to take a text based Postal Service mail street address and turn that into a latitude and longitude using a remote computer database server and the built in data sensor . A database server with access to incoming cell tower triangulation geolocation can then determine quite easily if the latitude and longitude reported by the device is within a specified distance of the latitude and longitude of the Postal Service mail address. This geocoding functionality is incorporated into a computer server for voting applications herein described . The server includes a MapTP Web Services API installed in the server to determine if geographical location data coordinates match the database in the computer server for voter to be authenticated to perform a voting application on the device .

Before the voter initiates the voting process the voter authenticates himself to the mobile communication device step . The consumer may authenticate himself to the mobile communication device in a variety of different ways. Exemplary authentication mechanisms include entering a personal identification number PIN entering a challenge response or by any other method of verifying consumer identity to the mobile communication device including data from a voter registration record that enabled voter to register to vote in advance of a specific vote or ballet vote selection process.

After the voter authenticates himself to the mobile communication device the mobile communication device or a SIM card is used to initiate the casting of a vote application step at the home Postal Service mailing address GPS coordinates or other conforming GPS Postal Service mailing address GPS location or range from that location. Permission or authentication to vote may also be dependent upon time or date parameters of the voting system and the like stored in a rules and permissions server database and associated with the voter and or voting process.

The voting authority provides the permissible GPS address location information to the computer server step where it is stored for matching by exact location or range within i.e. permitted location may be within 2 miles radius of the GPS location address stored in the voter server and related database . The device cell tower triangulation geolocation information may identify the location of the voter at the time of vote or may include alternate GPS address locations such as the GPS coordinates of a polling location where voters can choose to vote with or without a consumer device.

The mobile communication device provides the voter location information to the processing network step . Thus the processing network may identify the voting location where the vote is being initiated by the mobile communication device.

The location of the mobile communication device is identified using a global positioning system step . The global positioning system provides the cell tower triangulation location of the mobile communication device to the voter database and remote computer server processing network.

A determination is made whether the location of the mobile communication device corresponds to the voter s pre designated Postal Service mail location step . The vote casting and serving network considers the mobile communication device to be authentic when the voter location corresponds to the cell tower triangulation geolocation or locations and or radius there from of the mobile communication device. For example when the mobile communication device is identified as being in the same location as the voter s home Postal Service mailing address i.e. the address matching a driver s license or address at which a voter is typically registered to vote the voting processing network authenticates the transaction step . Similar matching can be performed at a business address if the vote is for proxy or union vote elections where the home address may not be the relevant GPS location stored in the computer server database.

The vote processing network may determine that the mobile communication device is not authentic when the voter location does not correspond to the Postal Service mailing location of the mobile communication device based on cell tower triangulation geolocation and other data comparisons and matching in a remote computer data server step . For example when the mobile communication device is identified as being at a different location from the voter home address the vote processing network does not process the transaction because the transaction is not authentic step . The voter is notified accordingly by email SMS or on screen browser message delivered over the internet on the device screen that parameters in rules and permissions database server step or other GPS data matching to Postal Service mail address do not match with the database server step and therefore an authenticated vote on the device cannot be made using the consumer device at this time. Authentication processing may then terminate or may proceed in another manner e.g. in person at a designated physical polling location for the vote .

According to some implementations of the invention and with reference to voter may use a consumer mobile device with a SIM card where the SIM card may implement various features of the computer implemented voting method. In these implementations the SIM card may additionally include among other information the information included in the SIM card described above for example voter s registration record identification related information voter s Postal Service mail address information voter s GPS home location latitude and longitude information voter s International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI data by using the Provide Local Information code command and or other voter or device information . The SIM card may also include the electronic forms associated with fill in voter ballot download or on device display screen ballot viewing or vote selection processes.

According to some implementations of the invention when voter with the mobile device that includes the SIM card visits a polling place for on premises voting may access the SIM card to obtain the voter information associated with the voter retrieve electronic forms associated with voter registration or ballot format compliant voter selection forms and or other voting information. This may be accomplished via various wired or wireless communications links associated with the mobile device in which the SIM card operates. This may also be accomplished by reading the SIM card directly e.g. by removing the SIM card from the mobile device and inserting i.e. hot swapping a different SIM card into the device or a reader at the polling place . The obtained voter information may be used to generate ballot compliant voting form s between a polling place location and voter with SIM card.

In some implementations of the invention as depicted in mobile device may be configured to run an application not shown stored in a memory at the mobile device comprising one or more JavaCard application modules that may enable various features and functionality of the invention. For example the one or more software modules may perform functions including one or more of accessing SIM cards updating voter information on the SIM card and remote server generating voter ballot forms for internet voting on the device or other functions.

According to various implementations of the invention these application modules may include one or more of a third party service Mobile Sensor API software and communication interaction module SIM card accessing module device identity generating module SIM card interaction module server update module or other modules .

According to some implementations of the invention voter may utilize the mobile device to connect to third party service API software and communication application and generate requests to obtain the initial voter information provided at either a polling place or voter s home Postal Service Mail address reported by GPS coordinates or both to third party service API software via third party service API software application interaction module . Any suitable wireless communication links may be used to connect the mobile device to third party service API software application . Third party service API software application may receive the requests for initial voter information and in response may retrieve the initial voter information from internet database and provide the retrieved information to voter s mobile device . Third party service API software application interaction module may receive the initial voter information from third party service API software application and store obtained voter information data ballot or API in the SIM card included in the mobile device .

In this diagram we have a Smartphone consumer device handset connected to the internet by a web based browser capable to receive any HTTP HTTPS and html internet database content for viewing on a consumer device. The method provides a novel approach is to use a Smart Card Web Server from the SIM toolkit for voting by putting those HTTP HTTPS and html web pages on the SIM card . According to this implementation the SIM card can store specific content related to vote or voting with the consumer device handset can support the implementation. So instead of sending on the handset a website from a URL request in the device s browser the webpage action is performed by an agent receiving the HTML HTTPS content from the SIM card. So the request to initiate a vote is sent to the SIM card by the voter using the device and the SIM card fetches the appropriate contents from the internet. Included with this inventive method is data provided by SIM based services with pictures midlets files everything already deployed on web browser. The HTTP HTTPS voter related content is assembled and resolved by the SIM card not the web browser program.

In some implementations of the invention third party service API software application interaction module may provide voter s updates additions deletions changes and or other updates to the initial voter information in SIM card to the third party service API software application . Third party service API software application interaction module may provide updates associated with voter s chosen API software applications voter identity related information associated with voter and or other voter information. The SIM card implements the interaction using a SIM card programming software method known as Smart Card Sever Interaction using SCWS technology. The application may be via Over the Air OTA by using the SIM Alliance loader. Further the SIM card IMEI is read by using the Provide Local Information ETSI TS 102 223 command and user typically needs a PIN or password to download software to the SIM card. Gemalto is one of the manufactures of a SIM card that uses Smart Card Web Server technology to implement mobile applications such as voting in the SIM card with SCWS technology. A SCWS compatible handset and SIM card also enables deployment of secure services with standard Web technology by leveraging inherent smart card security features making them especially beneficial for a voter application using an internet method.

In some implementations of the invention voter may update the voter information for example voter identity and registration related information and or other information included in the SIM card by directly entering the updated information using the mobile device s data entry screen or other integrated data entry keyboard. This updated information may be directly communicated to third party service API software application via third party service API software application interaction module . In some implementations the updated information may be communicated by a PC which in turn may communicate the updated information to third party service API software application . Third party service API software application may receive and store the updated voter information in database or in device server update module . In some implementations the updated voter information from the voter may be received and stored in the SIM card via SIM card interaction module .

In some implementations of the invention voter information may be maintained at the voter s PC and may be synchronized with the voter information on the SIM card . Voter may update the voter information maintained at the voter s PC. The updated voter information may be downloaded from the PC onto the SIM card . Then the updated voter information may be communicated to third party service API software application by the mobile device .

In some implementations updated voter information from third party service API software application which may include updates from other entities for example API software applications voter and or other entities may be received and stored on the SIM card of the mobile device via the third party service API software application interaction module . In some implementations the updated voter information from third party service API software application may be received by the consumer device. The obtained voter information may be downloaded from the consumer device and stored in the SIM card included in the mobile device .

In some implementations of the invention third party service API software application may comprise corresponding voter interaction modules that may enable third party service API software applications to receive requests to obtain voter information from the mobile device retrieve and provide the requested voter information to the mobile device receive updates to the voter information from the mobile device provide updates to the voter information to the mobile device receive requests to view voter information from the mobile device provide the views of voter information to the mobile device and or other functions.

According to some implementations of the invention the mobile device may comprise a SIM card accessing module that may access the SIM card to obtain the voter information including the electronic ballot form s associated with voting process and or other information.

In some implementations of the invention API software application may update the voter information directly at the remote server associated with third party service API software application via server update module . In some implementations a voter polling place may update the voter information by synchronizing updates to voter information on the SIM card with voter information at the remote server accessed by internet database for example if a person with a disability needs assistance at the polling place to vote using the mobile device with assistive technology tools .

In some implementations the mobile device may comprise a server update module similar to the server update module of API software application . In some implementations the server update module may update the voter information at the remote server and synchronize the voter information including cell tower triangulation geolocation coordinate data on the SIM card with the voter information at the remote internet database server .

In some implementations of the invention the application described with respect to may be resident on the SIM card and mobile device may be configured to run the application resident on SIM card . The application and the voter information may be stored in separate areas of the SIM card.

In some implementations of the invention the SIM card can be removed from the consumer device after a voting process and sent by Postal Service mail to a voting authority or vote administrator including a handwritten signature method with legal declaration to certify and attest to the voting process using the internet database and mobile device. In such case the SIM card may be returned together with a signature card or other paper based form that serves as a paper verifiable record of the vote and also a means to audit the vote electronically from the SIM card included in a pocket of the return Postal Service mail data if needed to supplement or re affirm an internet based vote from the device to better enable a post election audit verification process or response to resolve a vote authentication challenge.

In an embodiment Microsoft Tag recognition processing is performed via a consumer device coupled to a server via a network to provide interactive voting by the consumer device in combination with a separate PC and related PC display monitor screen displaying the image s of a Microsoft Tag for voter capture and selection using the separate mobile consumer device. In these embodiments voters use local processing devices e.g. consumer devices to communicate via one or more networks e.g. Internet wireless networks wired networks etc. with a server supporting Microsoft Tag recognition activities and exercises.

In a further alternate embodiment a voter uses the device s camera to scan the Microsoft Tag for digital recognition for interactive voting over the mobile infrastructure with software applications that support the processing of Microsoft Tags that can request that the software for reading the Microsoft.Tag be downloaded or otherwise served from a remote computer server request on the PC device and installed to the voter s consumer device at the time a voter subscribes to the internet voting method. These downloaded applications are subsequently run on the consumer device during the execution of the Microsoft Tag recognition and associated vote selection process.

When a voter operating the voter wishes to communicate with the server for Microsoft Tag recognition activities the voter scans the Microsoft Tag of the VoterTags or electronic display of one or more Microsoft Tags and transfers the displayed Microsoft Tag s or causes the Microsoft Tag to be transferred to the server by PC device that supports Microsoft Tag recognition software application and download processing. A browser running on the consumer device will establish a coupling or connection to the mobile wireless network infrastructure e.g. a W CDMA Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP coupling or connection .

Information and messages are broken down into smaller pieces or packets to be transmitted from a source to a destination. The protocol breaks down and reassembles the packets while ensuring the packets are transmitted to the proper destination. Each packet is given a header that contains a variety of information including the order in which the packet is to be reassembled with other packets for the same transmitted message or information. Each packet is put into a separate IP envelope for transmission over the internet . The IP envelopes contain addressing information that direct the internet to IP data or URL destination address. All IP envelopes containing packets for the same transmitted message or information have the same addressing information in order that they are all transmitted to the same destination location and thereafter properly reassembled. Each IP envelope also contains a header that includes information such as the source or voter s Postal Service mail address the date and time of the vote and the amount of time the packet should be maintained before being discarded etc.

In an embodiment of a Microsoft Tag recognition activity for interactive voting a voter requests via their PC device with display screen or consumer device an XML eXtensible Markup Language file comprising a web page for use in a Microsoft Tag function. The Microsoft Tag function of an embodiment includes a Microsoft Tag processing exercise from the server supporting Microsoft Tag recognition. The Microsoft Tag function of an embodiment also includes use of the URL from the decoded Microsoft Tag to return a multimedia object or web page to the consumer. The proper XML file is returned to the consumer from the server via the Internet or wireless network and the consumer s browser displays the text graphics and multimedia data of the file on the PC device consumer s screen. The voter may then perform various vote or voter registration or voting processes at the direction of the displayed web page.

In order to support Microsoft Tag recognition processing for interactive voting via the Internet or wireless network a voter accesses the Microsoft Tag recognition program on the device or a server which may or may not be remotely located from the consumer. The voter then scans the Microsoft Tag using the consumer device and in response to the scanning receives a response or feedback from the server. Responsive feedback from the Microsoft Tag recognition program may be in the form of text graphics audio audio visual or some combination of these but is not so limited.

As described above with reference to in an internet server network supporting Microsoft Tag recognition numerous voters with fixed or mobile device camera are configured to communicate with a PC device and server supporting Microsoft Tag identifier recognition services e.g. for voting via the Internet or wireless network . In an embodiment in order to support Microsoft Tag recognition processing for respective voters the server executes a Microsoft Tag processing thread.

In response to transmission of the Microsoft Tag by the voter the voter receives an XML file comprising a web page from the server for use in an internet based vote activity and the consumer device displays the text graphics and multimedia data of the file to the voter . When the voter thereafter selects a Microsoft Tag via the displayed web page a script associated with the selected exercise activates a browser component.

In an embodiment a text response is returned to the voter from the server which is displayed on a portion of the screen already displaying the current web page for the activity accessed by the voter. In an alternative embodiment an entirely new XML page is returned from the server which is displayed as a new web page to the voter via the consumer screen on the mobile device .

Generally the Microsoft Tag processing thread is configured to accept Microsoft Tag data packets from a consumer decode the Microsoft Tag and transmit a response or appropriate feedback to the voter. The Microsoft Tag processing thread is configured to perform each of these functions as the appropriate data becomes available to it thereby eliminating any latencies that normally accrue when each of these functions is performed in a pipeline function wherein processing of one function is required to complete before beginning other processing tasks.

The URL associated with one or more Microsoft Tag can represent one or more vote selections on a topic for voting representing a Yes No Undecided or similar vote selection option such as the name of a candidate running for board of director union leadership council television performer teacher of the year competition etc.

The mobile communication device may further include a contactless element that is typically implemented in the form of a semiconductor chip or other data storage element with an associated wireless transfer e.g. data transmission element such as an antenna. Data or control instructions transmitted via a mobile communications carrier network may be applied to the contactless element by a contactless element interface not shown . The contactless element interface functions to permit the exchange of data and or control instructions between the mobile device circuitry and hence the mobile network and the contactless element . For reference the NFC mobile reading circuit can be included with the SIM card described in .

The contactless element is capable of transferring and receiving data using a near field communications NFC capability or near field communications medium typically in accordance with a standardized protocol or data transfer mechanism e.g. ISO 14443 NFC . Near field communications capability is a short range communications capability such as RFID Bluetooth infra red or other data transfer capability that can be used to exchange voter data between the mobile communication device or it can be used to exchange voter data between the mobile communication device and the polling place location noted by reference in . Thus the mobile communication device is capable of communicating and transferring voter ballot data and or voter authentication instructions via both mobile carrier network i.e. Verizon or T Mobile wireless and near field communications capability.

The mobile communication device may also include a processor e.g. a microprocessor for processing the functions of the mobile communication device and a display to allow the consumer to view voter ballot associated with voting that may be selected and other voter information and messages. The mobile communication device may further include input elements to allow a voter to input information into the mobile communication device a speaker to allow the voter to hear voice communication text to speech reading of the ballot contents etc. and a microphone to allow the voter to transmit voice through the mobile communication device to vote in the event they have a disability and require such assistance to vote. The mobile communication device may also include an antenna for wireless data transfer e.g. data transmission over the internet.

A method for voters to use a consumer device such as a mobile communication device or a mobile phone to authenticate themselves and vote just as they would in a polling place for a local state or national election event in the voter s home jurisdiction. The computer based method also keeps a handwritten signature paper data record verifiable by the voter with the voter s handwritten signature to confirm they voted by the internet method which is sent back using Postal Service mail to voting authority voting officials or otherwise deposited by voter at a physical voter polling location after the elections have been made on the device enabling a post election audit with a paper verifiable record. The method applies data captured and sent wirelessly by the device applying data from data sensors such as location data and an active pixel sensor APS camera image capture of a durable computer readable medium to create a new trustworthy voting method by consumer device with a paper verifiable trail across the internet.

The availability of small low cost and low power CMOS image data sensors with active pixel sensor GPS receiver chipsets portable consumer device mobile phones and internet database servers that can be accessed wirelessly over wireless mobile network carriers combine to create a method to enable new consumer device and mobile voting methods. As a result different computer applications and methods have emerged that work with a mobile communication device and their related software application program interfaces APIs and user device interaction that enable the instant method of voting with trustworthy voter authentication.

The current invention is directed to novel cyber physical methods for voter and election related database verification services image data capture and reporting and location sensor data to include online communications and database reporting services that link to and run in parallel with physical Postal Service sent mail to verify and permit a trustworthy voting process to be performed by computer server methods over the internet using a consumer device.

The method in part performs a mobile device voter process accessible to a wider range of voters including those with disabilities who cannot easily visit physical polling locations to enable what is in essence a new mobile device authentication and internet transmission method for what is often referred to as an absentee ballot voting process.

The new method helps transform voting for people with or without disabilities by combining the security and trust of Postal Service mail with the convenience of a mobile device. The method helps transform a mobile phone or Smartphone into a trustworthy electronic voting device that can be used at to vote at a Postal Service home mailing address or at other designated physical location s to authenticate the consumer device and voter and then process a vote in an election event or any other voting process from the device including a shareholder proxy votes school board election university student officer election or popularity selections for a survey to select entertainers such as singers or other TV performers.

The technological and administrative solutions of the instant method are designed to help ensure that all citizens can vote privately and independently a requirement of the Help America Vote Act HAVA of 2002 42 U.S.C. 15441 . The technology leads to the adoption of a new method to make voting systems including paper ballots more accessible to all voters and make the entire election process more welcoming and accessible to individuals with disabilities by allowing voting to take place at a home residence or designated polling location as verified in part by cell tower triangulation geolocation data in a consumer device and compared to a physical Postal Service mail address by a computer server database.

The method is further enabled by GPS location coordinate data that can be made readily accessible to a consumer device over wireless access using mobile communication consumer data network carriers and application program interfaces APIs and SIM card based Smart Card Web Server using internet connected consumer devices. Providers of cell tower triangulation geolocation data that can be integrated to perform access by internet database lookup and reporting by the instant method include companies such as Navteq Alcatel Lucent deCarta and Tele Atlas that provide server side wireless mobile geospatial software solutions to help power the location reporting and analysis functions of the instant method with an efficient client server architecture and programming interface using a J2ME API mobile platform with GPS and related latitude and longitude data for computer database lookup comparison and analytic reporting capabilities.

The cell tower triangulation data enables a process known as geolocation also called geotagging or geocode that is the practice of associating a digital resource with a physical location. Location information is typically given in terms of latitude and longitude coordinates which can pinpoint any place on the planet with a high degree of precision.

Other sorts of digital artifacts such as sent Postal Service mail in the form voter election information similarly benefit from being included with a durable computer readable medium affixed or included on voter mail that can be further verified by comparison to cell tower triangulation with location data. With cell tower triangulation geolocation data coordinate layers of information voting authorities have new abilities to discern correlations between related materials and take greater advantage of the growing interconnectedness of consumer computing devices and Mobile Sensor API application methods for device and voter authentication. The cell tower triangulation geolocation data for voting methods creates a new and improved verification tool for voting on a mobile consumer device when captured by a Mobile Sensor API Application Program Interface .

A Mobile Sensor API allows Java ME and other software applications to fetch data easily and uniformly from the sensor s . An API offers a unified way of managing sensors connected to the mobile devices and access to the sensor data. A sensor is any measurement data source. Sensors are of different types. These can include GPS active pixel sensor API using a CMOS camera module that is can capture sensor data in the form of an image in a camera type CMOS device and physical sensors such as magnetometers and altimeters.

A Mobile Sensor API provides for sensor detection sensor connection fetching data processing data push support and access permissions. A sensor in a mobile device may be connected to an application program for voting by API SIM card or a downloadable software program based on a general specification focused on communicating with the sensors that are integrated on a mobile device generally a Java ME device or a device with JavaCard SIM device. It can be any type of sensor including an RFID or Near field communication NFC computer readable medium in the form of an electronic tag reading sensor a durable computer readable medium an active pixel sensor or a GPS data sensor. It is also feasible to for a device owner to send an SMS message including the current location coordinates of the device. However SMS will almost certainly be more complex and error prone than simply making a data connection to a computer database server and sending the information directly e.g. by using an HTTP connection and posting the data .

The main functionality of Mobile Sensor API is to fetch sensor data and monitor it based on set conditions. The appropriate sensor has to be found or known beforehand in order to use. An application can search for a desired sensor based on an application such as in this case to process to enable voting using the mobile device with cell tower triangulation or other sensor s under the method for voter registration or vote processing. The device registers itself as an application program associated with the sensor s and stores the values in different integers reflecting latitude and longitude coordinates. There is also a constant storing of a URL to the sensor. This URL is specific to the geolocation in various devices such as in the HTC Samsung and Sony Ericsson consumer device phones.

Some sensors are intended for restricted use only to be used or controlled in the manufacturer mobile carrier network operator or trusted party domain applications only or if the user permits. When the application does not have the required permissions all the found sensors are still returned but they cannot necessary be opened. Security and permissions for some methods in a voting based sensor data API can be performed if the user does not have the permissions needed to perform the action. This device device user and application s from a web server can specify various permissions to restrict or automatically the usage of some sensors.

In addition to Mobile Sensor API applications the method takes advantage of newer global positioning data sensor and reporting systems on mobile devices to allow voters to include a precise location with each vote made on the phone together with other technology tools in combination that include Near field Communication NFC and SIM card identity tools and Postal Service mail. Voting authorities would be able to set rules and permissions from the data reported by the device and the data sensors therein to determine whether to accept votes from a particular device person or location and on particular dates and times.

Geolocation voting methods can help create worldwide standards for voting authentication and verification. The data sensor method may also rely on other data in the device to provide cell tower triangulation geolocation also known as A GPS or Assisted GPS reverse geocoding for address linking as options when a GPS sensor is not included in a device. Such wireless operator network cell sector and cell tower solution are especially useful with older consumer device that may not have the latest GPS data sensor chipset inside and therefore must rely on cell tower triangulation techniques for geolocation data under the method.

Beyond GPS based address location data coordinates the Postal Service mailing address data of the method can be implemented with a durable computer readable medium corresponding to the physical postal mailing address or the equivalent. Accordingly an alternate method to supplement captured image data from the device with cell tower triangulation data or other text entry input by the consumer device voter can also serve to authenticate identity to complete verification of a voting process with the device.

An example of an alternative durable computer readable medium is a state issued driver s license national ID card or governmental issued passport that can contain a handwritten signature or visually printed home Postal Service address of record. Such data card s can be imaged by voter using the device and then applying the captured and recorded image as computer data input by the method to supplement and serve to further verify under state local national or international law s that the voter completed voting process for post election audit and verifications as may be required.

The image of the government or state issued identity card can be captured by an active pixel sensor or APS including the CMOS APS used most commonly in mobile Smartphone camera based consumer devices. The captured identity signature record e.g. driver s license by electronic data image can then serve as a replacement to a requirement to send back a Postal Service mail card or other state or governmental ID form with handwritten signature as the electronic equivalent of a captured verification and authentication address using the data image with supplemental GPS address location data from consumer device .

The image data captured and sent back may serve as a proxy and digital data substitute to a requirement to mail back a physically signed voter authentication card or absentee or other voting ballot format after voting on the device because the card is in essence being returned in digital image data based format to a voting authority as a digital file using the method to provide address and handwritten signature verification s electronically transmitted and stored in a computer server for verification s .

The method is capable of reading a durable computer readable medium by example with a Microsoft Tag. A computer readable Microsoft Tag is a durable computer readable medium that can be displayed on a browser viewing screen of a PC or desktop computer that is connected to internet with an election voting ballot or form downloaded from or viewed on a URL displaying the computer readable medium or printed computer readable medium added to a Postal Service voting or election related sent mail content that brings multiple colors or geometric patterns into the two dimensional durable computer readable medium with data coded identifiers that are technically referred to as High Capacity Color Barcodes HCCBs .

The advanced durable computer readable medium is captured as a digital image of HCCBs employs different symbol shapes in geometric patterns and multiple colors to significantly increase the amount of information that can be stored on analog printed media and improve readability on poorly lensed CMOS image sensors on consumer devices such as mobile phones where image recognition and processing in a mobile communication device transmits by wireless carrier or internet the durable computer readable image data of the tag to a website server hosted by Microsoft or other database server providers to read convert the image data into a URL representing vote selection data. Such methods can also utilize geolocation by including GPS data coordinates from the mobile communication device for voting processes.

In further embodiments the mobile communication device is a camera phone device capable of capturing and transmitting the image of the durable computer readable medium i.e. Microsoft Tag displayed from the PC or desktop computer viewing screen to the first server after mobile voter and device user capturing the medium with a CMOS image sensor using the camera function of the consumer device.

In some of these embodiments once the server receives the image the image is processed by third party software APIs and database server look ups resulting in the tag image selected acting as a data input selection to vote on mobile consumer device. Supplemental reporting of corresponding postal mailing address data as reported by GPS location coordinates can be included by the mobile device transmitting the vote in conjunction with reading the Microsoft Tag presented in a 2D displayed format from the PC browser screen then captured by the consumer device camera image capture and sensor functionality. The unique combination of Microsoft Tag for instant voter access on internet connected URL displayed on PC monitor viewing or electronic screen with election information and Microsoft Tag combine with a server based verification code registration that links secure voter code registration data with Microsoft Tags and the security of Postal Service mail to create a new reliable election registration and voter method.

With the use of Smartphones in the hands of people with disabilities and internet access it is now possible to use the technology of a durable computer readable identifier in the form of a Microsoft Tag applied onto physical postal mailings to securely cast one s vote from their consumer device at home or other permitted physical address coordinate or range of from GPS physical address coordinates programmed for acceptance by a computer server accessed by internet through the consumer device. While specific latitude and longitude address locations are presented in this specification the other voter identity and authentication techniques using mobile consumer device sensor methods and teachings mentioned above should also be considered.

In sharp contrast by adding the authentication and trustworthiness methods the instant technology platform can combine and compare by computer server database methods the registration data and data sensor linking features of the a durable computer readable identifier such as the Microsoft Tag with the security of microchip tags applied onto Postal Service envelopes or postcards to create a new voter service platform for the disabled. This service makes it easier to use cell phones to register to vote and cast official ballots. The Votertags services also create entirely new ways to transform voting in America and internationally.

Such new paper verifiable method enabled with a durable computer readable medium can permit individuals to conduct secure instant voting from Smartphones and other mobile devices by combining U.S. Postal mail with the internet by using Microsoft custom Tags in the form of durable computer readable identifier or the application of Near field communication NFC computer readable technology applied onto sent ballot voting postal mail. Generally electronic voting machines that do not produce a paper record of every vote cast cannot be relied upon by voting authority or vote administrator to be fully trusted.

The server based data storage method for internet voting is populated by data incorporation and overlay of third party databases capturing and storing GPS sensor and other data received from the consumer device by wireless connecting over the internet using API applications link and compare them to physical mailing address data for look up and identification verification by the inventive method.

Typically these databases are accessed by TCP IP or other internet connectivity to local or remote computer system servers. Remote voter identification and application Web Services can then be accessed from cloud computing resources using by example the Google Chrome operating system cloud computing model in which programs are not installed on a PC or netbook consumer device but rather are used over the internet and accessed through a web browser. In such approach a voter s identity and verification data will also reside on servers across the Internet rather than exclusively on their consumer device.

Database enablement application program interface API perform hyperlinking with third party content storage and management services such as those provided by the Universal Postal Union UPU issued .Post dot post top level domain name URLs assigned to and capable of corresponding with an individual geolocation Postal Service voter mail address GPS data coordinates. For example vendors such as Zumbox. and Earth Class Mail. maintain internet based postal mail address with postal address location related databases that can be accessed by online server databases and APIs to provide online data link to physical Postal Service mail address data in their online data storage systems.

The Zumbox. API includes an electronic link to a database of 150 million U.S. postal mail addresses virtually every physical address in the United States. The Zumbox. service enables automated access to sending intended physical postal mail via Zumbox. that represents a digital pipe into each street address in the United States based on physical Postal Service street addresses i.e. USPTO Main Campus Madison Building East 600 Dulany Street Alexandria VA USA . This address can also be represented as an electronic equivalent

and computer readable data address in the form of a URL formatted in a .POST top level domain TLD issued under Universal Postal Union UPI standards to provide a trusted environment to serve the information and electronic communication service needs of the voting method. Examples of URL based postal address using .post TLD including IP addresses such as uspto virginia.us.post 600dulanystreet22314 virginia.us.post 32degrees18m23.1N122degrees36s52.5nw.us.post or alternatively as Decimal Degrees DD expressed latitude and longitude geolocation coordinates in decimal fractions using a format such as 49.5000DD 123.5000DD gps.us.post to represent the GPS coordinates of a postal mail address represented by IP based internet accessible electronic server data mail address or similar IP based URL or server access data formats.

Such digital pipe into each street address in the United States or worldwide location based on physical street addresses GPS latitude and longitude coordinate data expressed in IP based decimal degrees that are offered as a third party API that can be integrated into computer implemented database methods described herein. The API works using REST over HTTP internet communication protocols. The term REST stands for Representational State Transfer and is a stateless protocol that includes the state with every communication. Additionally REST provides access to Web services using HTTP for internet based database storage clouds REST would be used to access storage resources as services to match postal mail address to matching GPS location s .

Zumbox represents one of several third party commercial vendors including Postal Services creating digital storage systems that correspond to every street address in a Postal Service delivery region through which customers business and government s may address send or receive digital computer implemented voter communication over the internet. So mobile communication device owners e.g. with mobile phone wireless network consumer device can receive voter ballots and other voter registration or voting ballots from voting authorities individuals and companies that send interactive multimedia voter and election related voter mail and messages related to an internet voting ballot process or to one or more physical or electronic IP based Postal Service mail address by internet methods that can include clickable links and video data files related to the election vote options and selection options by vote using mobile device.

In addition to the Zumbox database with and application program interface API and application service provider ASP models the USPS National Database also contains every deliverable mailing address in the United States of America. The method can generate an XML code for each Postal Services mailable address on the fly and store and compare the physical addresses on a business mailer s address data file to this or other Postal Service database utilizing the database server with the captured image or location data to hyperlink and associate an electronic IP based URL or domain name e.g. a .POST top level IP URL or related domain web access address that is identified and corresponding to a confirmed physical Postal Service mail address as part of the voting method.

These aforementioned methods for data verification to enable voting teach a trustworthy and higher level for voter processing verification of identity then online banking because identity must be verified by multiple steps tied to Postal Service mail address GPS data coordinate and range permission s or other rules i.e. dates and times for permitted voting by device method and other individual identity data points that can be set under rules and permissions stored in the computer server under control of a voting authority or vote administrator organization.

Internet connected mobile devices are also important for people with disabilities. In the last several years consumer devices such as mobile phones or Smartphones have played an ever increasing role in the lives of people with disabilities as they search for ways to stay involved in election and voter registration and voting ballot process and find new ways to use this increasingly important tool. These mobile phones have opened up a new world of communication and convenience to voters with disabilities worldwide that have challenges visiting a polling location to cast their individual vote in person as often required under law.

Section of HAVA includes transparency privacy and security for voter registration information while at the same time meeting the challenge of real time authentication of voters during an election by enabling the use of mobile Smartphone devices to cast secure votes. By Smartphone I mean consumer devices that have built in image sensors e.g. CMOS sensor with lens to act as a camera sensor device to read a durable computer readable identifier affixed onto official U.S. Postal Election Mail and other voter election campaign voter related contents mail with secure internet connectivity also built into the consumer device.

The iPhone Blackberry and virtually every new mobile phone in the U.S. fall into this category of handy mobile phones which also represent the lifeline tool and assistive device for disabled Americans. Other manufactures such as INTEL produce the Intel Reader a handheld device for people who struggle to read standard texts because of conditions such as dyslexia and blindness capable of digitizing and transferring a voter ballot adding text to speech software.

Before consumer devices such as internet connected Smartphone s voting for candidates in official governmental and other elections by the disabled required more secure forms of identification and processes to keep them trustworthy. In part these legacy antiquated processes served to limit people with disabilities from registering to vote or sometimes deciding to go out and vote based on the weather forecast outside or public health concerns such as the H1N1 flu pandemic of 2009 that resulted in contingency plans for voter polling in response to health warnings and the possibility of people being too ill to travel to physical polling locations. Therefore the novel invention can create an entirely new way to vote from one s home Postal Service address as determined by cell tower geolocation data coordinates and supported by other digitally transmitted data and be counted.

The instant method can transform election events and voting in this increasing mobile consumer communication device and digital age. It can make it simple convenient and secure to register to vote or officially select and cast one s vote for a candidate or any public issue or question brought to a vote without the requirement to visit a physical polling location to cast or deposit a physical ballot in the physical polling place location to process a vote. The method opens a new and data verifiable way for people especially those with disabilities to vote and be counted with mobile convenience. In addition the method supports mobile consumer Smartphone device convenience for improved authentication with cell tower triangulation geolocation authentication and identity security in absentee ballot processes typically required for oversees military personnel and others whom are at overseas locations and therefore unable to visit a local polling place to vote.

This new hybrid electronic voting application bridges physical Postal Service election mail ballots and cell tower triangulation geolocation data with mobile devices for official election voting. Therefore an additional advantage of the instant method is to add mobile consumer device accessibility and convenience to help re invent antiquated paper voting processes and offer a new option to make any and every official election for those individuals with disabilities simpler to verify their identity by data entered captured and transmitted by consumer device selected by an individual to vote and be counted.

In addition the method supports mobile consumer Smartphone device convenience for improved authentication with cell tower triangulation authentication and identity security in absentee ballot processes typically required for oversees military personnel and others whom are at overseas locations and therefore unable to visit a local polling place to vote. In addition other non governmental voting processes can be performed from the device including shareholder proxy vote school board election university student officer election or popularity selections in response to a vote to select entertainers or other TV performers in combination with the data authentication received from mobile device and compared to voter registration data stored and accessed form a remote computer server can included.

American Idol TV reality show voting recently surpassed 66 million votes mostly from mobile device text votes exceeding the total number of votes ever recorded during an election for U.S. President. In the current text message based American Idol voting method one realizes this is primarily accomplished using mobile phone text messaging services that allow unlimited voting on any issue by mobile phone. Such text based voting has proven to be unreliable and not trustworthy as multiple votes from an individual or device cannot be controlled and there is no paper verifiable trail or trustworthy authentication system to prevent multiple voting or other fraud. The method can incorporate voting by mobile device using an SMS message that combines with the cell tower triangulation data coordinates and reports both to a third party database server for less secure voting applications i.e. not official governmental elections .

For the first time the method enables trusted voting as simple as voting for a contestant on American Idol TV. These steps are accomplished with the efficiency of mobile consumer device and internet but the paper ballot data verification record remains the official vote that can be sent back to the voting authority or independent voter administrator of the voting processes using a form of Postal Service reply mail voting postcard or paper ballot form all with a handwritten voter signature that can serve to easily confirm re count or re verify the electronic internet voting over the consumer device if necessary for audit.

A background understanding of present voter technological and administrative solutions provides support to the innovative method in improving prior voting practices by Internet or other computer implemented means.

The technological and administrative solutions of the instant method are designed to help ensure that all citizens can vote privately and independently a requirement of the Help America Vote Act HAVA of 2002 42 U.S.C. 15441 . The technology method leads to the adoption of a new method to make voting systems including paper ballots more accessible to all voters and make the entire election process more welcoming and accessible to individuals with disabilities.

A required component of all U.S. official voter registration and absentee ballot forms is an original signature of the registrant. That is a properly completed voter registration or absentee ballot must include the voter s signature on the physical form itself. The signature requirement serves two purposes. First the signature is the voter s certification under penalties of perjury that the information provided on the form is true to the best of the voter s knowledge and belief. The signature is thus intended to increase the likelihood that valid information is captured on the form. Second the signature provides a method for authenticating the identity of the voter at the polling place usually after the fact . In principle though often not in practice a voter s signature when he or she appears at the polling place can be compared to the signature on file if doubts arise about whether the voter is in fact the person who filled out the voter registration form. More commonly signatures are used in processing absentee and or mail ballots and for petition verification.

Voter registration databases often integrate an image of voter signatures into their records of registered voters and store original signatures that are captured on paper. Handwriting experts who may be asked to judge whether two signatures are sufficiently similar have learned from experience that a signature captured on paper provides more forensically useful information than the same signature captured only in image form. For example the indentations on the paper registration form indicating hand pressure with which a physical signature is made can be compared to the paper signature captured at the polling place such a comparison is impossible with current technology if the voter registration signature is available only in image form.

The signature requirement step has one obvious drawback for voter registration it makes impossible a voter registration process that operates entirely online. In those instances where voters may register entirely online some other institution generally the state s department of motor vehicles has on file an original signature captured on a paper form. In this case the signature on file does not provide the voter s certification about the truth of the information provided the electronic submission of such information provides the certification. 

A thumbnail description of U.S. governmental voter election registration such as for the election of the President of the United States is described below by current election methods.

As a general rule a voter registers to vote in a specific geographic jurisdiction that is determined from the residential address that he or she provides for the purpose of voting. Citizens can register to vote at election offices. Depending on the state citizens can also obtain voter registration materials in many places including military facilities assisted living facilities high schools vocational schools social service agencies nursing homes and libraries or through voter registration drives or by downloading materials from the Internet. In addition the National Voter Registration Act requires all states to provide such materials at their departments of motor vehicles departments of human services and public assistance agencies. By filling out the required forms and providing the necessary identification citizens in all states can also register to vote by mail. In at least three states Washington Kansas and Arizona a citizen can register to vote through the Internet if he or she already has a driver s license or a state issued ID from that state. The voter completes the registration form and it is returned to the election office.

The returned materials are accompanied by an original signature that serves as an authentication mechanism when voter registration must be checked in the future. If the voter registers at a department of motor vehicles the relevant information may be extracted from the information on file or provided at the department of motor vehicles DMV and transmitted electronically to the election office along with the signature on file with the DMV as an authentication device for the voter at the polls. Overseas voters and voters of the U.S. armed forces and their dependents can sometimes register to vote by fax.

The voting Postal Service address of record determines the precinct from which the voter may cast his or her ballot whether at the polling place or by absentee or mail ballot or by an early vote. A precinct is a subdivision of a local election jurisdiction and all voters in a given precinct vote at one polling place. Sometimes a number of small precincts are consolidated at one polling place and sometimes election officials can require that all voters from certain precincts vote by mail. A local election jurisdiction is an administrative entity responsible for the conduct and administration of elections within it and may be a county or a municipality a city or town . Therefore the Postal Service address can serve as a critical data authentication variable to confirm a voter s address of record to permit a vote to be cast by absentee or mail ballot or by internet voting means using a consumer device under the method herein described.

In connection with understanding the invention in greater detail it would be useful to define some of the common terms used herein when describing various embodiments of the invention.

The term s Consumer Device and Mobile Communication Device also both known as cell phone or mobile phone device camera phone Smartphone handheld device netbook or tablet computer palmtop or simply handheld is a pocket sized computing device typically having an electronic display screen and camera lens or image capture sensor with a miniature keyboard that includes but is not limited to pocket sized internet connected wireless devices and other tablet devices that are larger versions of handheld mobile camera image capture devices. Generally these devices are wirelessly connected to the internet by WiMAX.RTM Wi Fi or wireless data carriers e.g. AT T.RTM Sprint. or Verizon. . Typically they have a GPS or A GPS receiver for sensing determining and reporting location data a touch screen for data entry or voter selection s over the air OTA software download and application program storage capability image capture processing and other sensors and computer circuits including removable and exchangeable SIM card for inserting into the device for communication capabilities to receive and transmit electronic data messages including votes and voter related ballot files.

The term Durable Computer Readable Medium is an information storage medium that is created by a durable process. Specifically a process shall be the combination of hardware software storage media techniques and procedures used to manage create store retrieve and delete information belonging to a custodian agency that in this case is the state or other business consumer or governmental entity managing and administering the voting process and related data records. A process shall be a durable process if it meets all of the following criteria 1 The process is capable of creating and storing information for the required records retention period as specified by voting rules election rules or similar data retention policies or guidelines 2 The process can be migrated to a successor process when necessary and will retain all information available in the original process after migration to the successor process 3 The process maintains the integrity of information in a readily accessible manner makes it retrievable makes it able to be processed through an established usual or routine set of procedures using available hardware and software and makes it accurately reproducible in a human readable form as determined by the needs of the custodian agency 4 The process provides for disaster recovery backups which are periodically depending on a retention schedule verified for restorability and readability and can be stored in a separate geographical location from the original information 5 The process is demonstrated to create and maintain information for the retention period as specified in an accurate reliable trustworthy dependable and incorruptible manner 6 The process allows the removal of information when it reaches the end of its required retention period and 7 The process is documented so as to demonstrate to a reasonable person compliance with these criteria.

The term Postal Mail Delivery Address includes but is not limited to the full and complete address in a standardized format that enables a Postal Service to deliver mail communication to an individual. In the United States a standardized address is a complete address that can be represented by example on an envelope cover as MR M MURRAY APT C 5800 SPRINGFIELD GARDENS CIRSPRINGFIELD VA 22162 1058. Other suitable forms of postal mail delivery address are detailed in U.S. Postal Service Publication 28 Postal Addressing Standards July 2008 PSN 7610 03 000 3688 and updated online at the U.S. Postal Service website and at similar international post websites and on the Universal Postal Union UPU website that describe and issue postal mail delivery address standards and acceptable format updates for Postal Service mailing and addressing services. It should be noted that postal mail delivery address is not meant to be applied to a postal Zip Code or postal region defined in a map or table but apply to a specific single GPS latitude and longitude coordinate and comparison data point that match to a Postal Service deliverable mail address according to a Postal Service s addressing standards.

The term Postal Service includes but is not limited to a government department or agency handling the transmission of mail. In the United States the United States Postal Service is the independent government agency that receives delivers and processes mail to physical street addresses associated with individuals i.e. a voter businesses and residential Postal Service address location s . In Switzerland the corresponding government department would be SwissPost . The term Postal Mail includes but is not limited an entity officially designated by national authorities of a country as responsible for fulfilling the obligations arising from the transportation and delivery of Postal Service mail. Similarly the term Postal Mailing Address includes but is not limited to an entity officially designated by the national authorities of a country as responsible for fulfilling the obligations arising from its associated agreements within its national territory corresponding to the national authorities authorized to deliver mail to a formatted mailing address to a location corresponding to GPS mail address data coordinates and addressed to a specific individual i.e. voter at a registered home mailing address or other Postal Service address of record.

The term SIM card refers to a SIM is a computer based device that stands for Subscriber Identity Module SIM card. The removable SIM card allows mobile communication devices to be instantly activated interchanged swapped out and upgraded all without mobile network carrier intervention. The SIM itself is tied to the wireless network rather than the actual phone. The SIM card technology can utilize JavaCard technology i.e. Java 2.1.1 and above and using SCWS technology for over the air content updates or software downloads from the internet or network carrier e.g. Verizon . A SIM card is a can also be sent by Postal Service mail to a designated individual s home voter mailing address or otherwise provided at a designated location to a consumer device owner to replace an existing SIM by sliding out an existing removable SIM card already in the device or hot swapping for single use application such to register vote or related voting ballot data entry voting process on the device for the designated individual to register or cast a vote and be counted.

The term JavaCard includes a technology that provides a secure environment for applications that run on smart cards and other devices in mobile communication devices with very limited memory and processing capabilities. Multiple applications can be deployed on a single card and new ones can be added to it even after it has been issued to the end user. Applications written in the Java programming language can be executed securely on cards from different vendors. The JavaCard platform can enable download over the wireless carrier associated with a mobile communications device of location based and identify security applets developed with JavaCard technology to run on any Java Card technology enabled smart card independently of the card vendor and underlying hardware.

The terms CMOS camera image capture or CMOS Sensor is a sensor for camera image capture and processing now integrated into most consumer mobile devices that include built in unit camera systems in which the lens image sensor and processing engine are housed. An image sensor is a device that converts an optical image to an electric signal that can be sent wirelessly by a consumer Smartphone as an electronic digital data file to a server over a wireless network carrier infrastructure and internet connectivity. It is used mostly in digital cameras and other mobile imaging devices. An image sensor is typically a charge coupled device CCD or a complementary metal oxide semiconductor CMOS active pixel sensor.

The term active pixel sensor or APS is an image sensor consisting of an integrated circuit containing an array of pixel sensors each pixel containing a photo detector and an active amplifier. There are many types of active pixel sensors including the CMOS APS used most commonly in cell phone cameras and external internal consumer device web cameras. Such an image sensor is produced by a CMOS process and is hence also known as a CMOS sensor and has emerged as an alternative to charge coupled device CCD imager sensors.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not of limitation. The breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments. Where this document refers to technologies that would be apparent or known to one of ordinary skill in the art such technologies encompass those apparent or known to the skilled artisan now or at any time in the future. In addition the invention is not restricted to the illustrated example architectures or configurations but the desired features can be implemented using a variety of alternative architectures and configurations. As will become apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art after reading this document the illustrated embodiments and their various alternatives can be implemented without confinement to the illustrated example. One of ordinary skill in the art would also understand how alternative functional logical or physical partitioning and configurations could be utilized to implement the desired features of the present invention.

One or more features from any embodiment may be combined with one or more features of any other embodiment without departing from the scope of the invention.

