---

title: Linking of a plurality of items of a user interface to display new information inferred from the plurality of items that are linked
abstract: A first item and a second item that are displayed in a user interface are selected via a computational device. A determination is made as to whether a linkage between the first item and the second item is a valid linkage, wherein the valid linkage indicates that inferences that relate the first item to the second item may be drawn by interpreting properties of the first item and properties of the second item. In response to determining that the linkage between the first item and the second item is a valid linkage, the properties of the first item and the properties of the second item are interpreted to infer new properties that relate the properties of the first item to the properties of the second item.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09256666&OS=09256666&RS=09256666
owner: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
number: 09256666
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101214
---
The disclosure relates to a method a system and a computer program product for the linking of a plurality of items of a user interface to display new information inferred from the plurality of item that are linked.

Numerous visible items may be displayed in certain user interfaces. The visible items may be interconnected in a hierarchical navigation tree or in some other form. In certain situations in the hierarchical navigation tree displayed in the user interface there may be a node associated with properties available for a piece of hardware such as a server wherein the node may be referred to as a server node. Additionally another node that is different from the server node may represent security tasks that are available wherein the node that represents security tasks that are available may be referred to as a security node.

In certain user interfaces if the user selects the server node by itself in the hierarchical navigation tree the user interface may display information related to the server. Furthermore if the user selects the security node by itself the information that is displayed may be associated with security tasks such as general security protocols etc.

Provided are a method a system and a computer program product in which a first item and a second item that are displayed in a user interface are selected via a computational device. A determination is made as to whether a linkage between the first item and the second item is a valid linkage wherein the valid linkage indicates that inferences that relate the first item to the second item may be drawn by interpreting properties of the first item and properties of the second item. In response to determining that the linkage between the first item and the second item is a valid linkage the properties of the first item and the properties of the second item are interpreted to infer new properties that relate the properties of the first item to the properties of the second item.

In additional embodiments the linkage in the user interface is highlighted and in response to selecting the highlighted linkage in the user interface the new properties are displayed.

In yet additional embodiments the first item and second item are nodes of a hierarchical tree displayed in the user interface wherein the hierarchical tree displays a plurality of items including the first item and the second item and wherein the plurality of items comprise elements of a software hardware or firmware system. In response to selecting the first item and the second item and in response to determining that the linkage between the first item and the second item is a valid linkage the linkage between the first item and the second item is highlighted in the user interface.

In further embodiments the new properties include at least an inferred property that is not directly found in either the properties of the first item or the properties of the second item.

In yet further embodiments the first item represents a selected hardware component the second item represents events associated with a plurality of hardware and software components and the displayed new properties show events associated with the selected hardware component.

In the following description reference is made to the accompanying drawings which form a part hereof and which illustrate several embodiments. It is understood that other embodiments may be utilized and structural and operational changes may be made.

Some types of desired actions on a user interface may be difficult to achieve with certain user interface designs. There may be numerous visible items on a user interface but certain interaction models may not allow the user to link multiple items via a linkage in order to observe the relevancy of the linkage or to determine what information may be discerned from two specifically linked items.

For example in certain situations the exact method for obtaining security related information on a server may not be immediately obvious in a user interface that has a server node and a security node wherein the server node has server related information and the security node has security related information for both clients and servers. Certain embodiments allow two visible items to be directly connected to obtain this information. For example in certain embodiments the server node and the security node may be directly connected via a linkage and the linkage on being clicked may display security related information on the server wherein the displayed security related information may be newly inferred information not explicitly indicated in properties of the server node or the security node. The act of the user linking the server node to the security nodes causes the generation of this newly inferred information.

Certain embodiments allow users to connect in a user interface at least two items that the user sees on the user interface. The user is also allowed to view an intersection of available actions or properties associated with the intersection between the at least two items. Such embodiments may facilitate the viewing of desired content that may otherwise require many user interactions with the interface by allowing the user to connect two or more visible items together and by having the system determine the relevancy and intersection of the information associated with the items.

In certain exemplary embodiments in an exemplary user interface such as a hierarchical navigation tree additional element or elements are overlaid so as to visually indicate to the user that connections between or among items are possible. In certain embodiments these additional elements are represented as a connection bus. In such embodiments individual items are connected to a global bus and all items connected to the global bus also have connections to each other. The linkage between any two items may be selectable on the user interface and the intersection defined by a given linkage may have properties. The meaning of a given intersection may be predetermined such as by a look up table that indicates operations an application should perform for each linkage and which linkages are not applicable. Additionally in certain embodiments new properties of a link joining two items are determined algorithmically via inference algorithms.

The user interface is generated by a user interface and inference application that executes in the computational device . The user interface may be displayed on a display monitor such as a Liquid Crystal Display LCD coupled to the computational device. In certain embodiments the display monitor such as the LCD may be included as part of the computational device .

The user interface may by configured to by the user interface and inference application to display a plurality of items . . . and properties . . . corresponding to the plurality of items . . . . In certain embodiments the plurality of items . . . may be objects icons text etc. that represent elements of a software hardware or firmware system. The properties . . . may represent various attributes events actions etc. that are associated with the items . . .

In certain embodiments the user interface and inference application generates linkages between two or more items of the plurality of items . . . . The user interface and interface application configures the generated linkages such that if a user clicks on a generated linkage that links two items then new properties inferred from the properties of the two items are displayed in the user interface .

Connections between any two items may not always be feasible as some components or tasks may have nothing in common with one another i.e. not all potential linkages are valid linkages. These types of irrelevant or invalid linkages may be visually indicated so that the user is aware that a linkage is not applicable. For example the invalid linkage may show a line with an error image e.g. a red x or the invalid linkage may appear as grayed out inactive or disabled. For example it is possible that on selection of Fans and Security no valid linkages are formed even though both Fans and Security are shown as potentially coupled to the common bus . The user interface and inference application may determine that no common properties or inferences that relate the Fans to the Security may be drawn by interpreting properties of the Fans and properties of the Security i.e. there may be no association between Fans and Security and in such a case even if the user selects Fans and Security no highlighted linkage connecting the Fans to the Security is shown in the user interface .

In alternative embodiments in addition to the navigation trees shown in the common bus may be implemented via by other types of user interface elements. For example a tabbed property notebook may have a bus placed above the tabs and the user may connect tabs to the bus.

Exemplary properties of the Event Log may include severity date event ID that uniquely identifies the event and message related to fans blade servers network firmware etc. Therefore the Event Log describes events related to not just Fans but also events related to other elements such as blade servers network firmware and other items that may be found in the user interface .

Exemplary properties of the Fans may include five fans identified as Fan Fan Fan Fan Fan shown via reference numerals in a system that has five fans.

In certain embodiments the user interface and inference application may interpret the properties of the Event Log and the properties of the Fans to determine new properties for valid linkages between the items Event Log and Fans . In certain embodiments the new properties include at least an inferred property that is not directly found in either the properties of the first item e.g. Fans or the properties of the second item e.g. Event Log .

Control starts at block in which a first item e.g. Fans and a second item e.g. Event Logs that are displayed in a user interface are selected via a computational device . A determination is made at block as to whether a linkage between the first item and the second item is a valid linkage wherein the valid linkage indicates that inferences that relate the first item to the second item may be drawn by interpreting properties of the first item and properties of the second item . In response to determining that the linkage between the first item and the second item is a valid linkage the properties of the first item and the properties of the second item are interpreted at block to infer new properties that relate the properties of the first item to the properties of the second item .

Control proceeds to block in which the user interface and inference application highlights the linkage in the user interface . In response to selecting the highlighted linkage in the user interface the new properties are displayed at block . For example in certain embodiments the new properties are displayed in the popup display .

Therefore illustrate certain embodiments in which valid linkages are determined between two or more items shown in a user interface . On selection of a valid linkage between two or more items by a user new properties inferred from individual properties of the items that are linked via the valid linkage are displayed in the user interface .

The described operations may be implemented as a method apparatus or computer program product using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof. Accordingly aspects of the embodiments may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the embodiments may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied there.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider . Java is a trademark or registered trademark of Sun Microsystems Inc.

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

In certain embodiments the computational device may comprise cloud component parts included in a cloud computing environment. In the cloud computing environment the systems architecture of the hardware and software components involved in the delivery of cloud computing may involve a plurality of cloud components communicating with each other. For example in certain embodiments the computational device of may provide clients and other servers and software and or hardware components in a networked cloud with storage and data processing services. The computational device may communicate with clients to provide storage and other services for the storage devices through a web interface or other application programming interface.

Certain embodiments may be directed to a method for deploying computing instruction by a person or automated processing integrating computer readable code into a computing system wherein the code in combination with the computing system is enabled to perform the operations of the described embodiments.

The terms an embodiment embodiment embodiments the embodiment the embodiments one or more embodiments some embodiments and one embodiment mean one or more but not all embodiments of the present invention s unless expressly specified otherwise.

The terms including comprising having and variations thereof mean including but not limited to unless expressly specified otherwise.

The enumerated listing of items does not imply that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive unless expressly specified otherwise.

Devices that are in communication with each other need not be in continuous communication with each other unless expressly specified otherwise. In addition devices that are in communication with each other may communicate directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries.

A description of an embodiment with several components in communication with each other does not imply that all such components are required. On the contrary a variety of optional components are described to illustrate the wide variety of possible embodiments of the present invention.

Further although process steps method steps algorithms or the like may be described in a sequential order such processes methods and algorithms may be configured to work in alternate orders. In other words any sequence or order of steps that may be described does not necessarily indicate a requirement that the steps be performed in that order. The steps of processes described herein may be performed in any order practical. Further some steps may be performed simultaneously.

When a single device or article is described herein it will be readily apparent that more than one device article whether or not they cooperate may be used in place of a single device article. Similarly where more than one device or article is described herein whether or not they cooperate it will be readily apparent that a single device article may be used in place of the more than one device or article or a different number of devices articles may be used instead of the shown number of devices or programs. The functionality and or the features of a device may be alternatively embodied by one or more other devices which are not explicitly described as having such functionality features. Thus other embodiments of the present invention need not include the device itself.

At least certain operations that may have been illustrated in the figures show certain events occurring in a certain order. In alternative embodiments certain operations may be performed in a different order modified or removed. Moreover steps may be added to the above described logic and still conform to the described embodiments. Further operations described herein may occur sequentially or certain operations may be processed in parallel. Yet further operations may be performed by a single processing unit or by distributed processing units.

The foregoing description of various embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto. The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the invention. Since many embodiments of the invention can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention the invention resides in the claims hereinafter appended.

