---

title: Internal voltage generator
abstract: An internal voltage generator according to an embodiment generates a reference voltage used for detecting data stored in a semiconductor memory. A first AD converter is configured to convert an external voltage supplied to the semiconductor memory into a first digital value. A second AD converter is configured to convert a temperature characteristic voltage that changes depending on a temperature of the semiconductor memory into a second digital value. An adder is configured to receive a reference voltage trimming address that specifies the reference voltage, the first digital value, and the second digital value, and to output a third digital value obtained by performing a weighted addition of the reference voltage trimming address, the first digital value, and the second digital value. A driver is configured to output the reference voltage responding to the third digital value.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08259513&OS=08259513&RS=08259513
owner: Kabushiki Kaisha Toshiba
number: 08259513
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20100713
---
This application is based upon and claims the benefit of priority from the prior Japanese Patent Application No. 2009 164525 filed on Jul. 13 2009 the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

In a 1T Transistor 1C Capacitor ferroelectric memory a reference voltage VDC needs to be set to an intermediate potential between data 0 and data 1 for a sense amplifier to detect digital data. It is known that a potential of a bit line that transfers the data 0 and the data 1 depends on both a temperature and an array voltage VAA. Accordingly the intermediate potential between the data 0 and the data 1 also changes with changes of the temperature and the array voltage VAA. The array voltage VAA is applied to a bit line and a plate line at the time of reading or writing data.

However conventionally the reference voltage VDC has not depended on both the temperature and the array voltage VAA. Particularly in recent years a sense margin of data has become stringent due to downscaling of a memory cell. Furthermore an external power source voltage VDD has been lowered with the downscaling of the memory cell and therefore it is being considered to use the external power source voltage VDD as it is as the array voltage VAA. The external power source voltage VDD varies in a certain level of range. Therefore when the reference voltage VDC is constant it is highly possible that the reference voltage VDC is shifted from the intermediate potential between the data 0 and the data 1 due to changes of the temperature and the external power source voltage VDD array voltage VAA eventually causing the sense amplifier to detect data erroneously.

Besides a degree of dependence amount of dependence of the reference voltage VDC on the temperature and the external power source voltage VDD array voltage VAA has never been considered before.

An internal voltage generator according to an embodiment generates a reference voltage used for detecting data stored in a semiconductor memory. A first AD converter is configured to convert an external voltage supplied to the semiconductor memory into a first digital value. A second AD converter is configured to convert a temperature characteristic voltage that changes depending on a temperature of the semiconductor memory into a second digital value. An adder is configured to receive a reference voltage trimming address that specifies the reference voltage the first digital value and the second digital value and to output a third digital value obtained by performing a weighted addition of the reference voltage trimming address the first digital value and the second digital value. A driver is configured to output the reference voltage responding to the third digital value.

The first embodiment can be applied not only to the Series connected TC unit type ferroelectric RAM but also to other types of ferroelectric memories. Furthermore the first embodiment can be applied not only to the ferroelectric memory but also to other types of memories that require the reference voltage.

A memory cell array includes a plurality of memory cells MC each consisting of a ferroelectric capacitor and a cell transistor being arranged in a two dimensional array. The memory cell MC is arranged at every points of intersection of bit lines BL and word lines WL every points of intersection of bit lines BL and plate lines PL .

A row decoder activates a selected word line WL from among a plurality of word lines WL. A plate line decoder activates a selected plate line PL from among a plurality of plate lines PL. A row controller selects a word line WL and a plate line PL on a certain target row based on a row address received from outside and controls the row decoder and the plate line decoder in order to activate the selected word line WL and plate line PL.

A column decoder selects a bit line BL from among a plurality of bit lines BL via a column gate . A sense amplifier SA is configured to read data stored in the memory cell MC or write data in the memory cell MC via the selected bit line BL. The reference voltage VDC is used when the sense amplifier SA detects data. A column controller controls the column decoder to select a bit line BL on a target column based on a column address received from outside.

A data buffer is configured to temporarily store read data that is detected by the sense amplifier SA and to output the read data to outside of a memory chip via an I O circuit. Alternatively the data buffer is configured to transfer write data input from outside via the I O circuit to the sense amplifier SA on a selected column.

A read operation of reading out data to outside is an operation of detecting data stored in the memory cell MC by the sense amplifier SA and outputting the read data to outside of the memory chip via the data buffer and the I O circuit. The read operation includes a restore operation of writing data latched in the sense amplifier SA back in the original memory cell MC. A write operation of writing data received from outside is operations of transferring write data input from outside to the sense amplifier SA via the I O circuit and the data buffer and of writing the write data in the memory cell MC by the sense amplifier SA after the sense amplifier SA detects data in the read operation.

A read write controller is configured to receive a chip enable signal bCE a write enable signal bWE and a restore signal bRESTOR from outside and to generate an equalizer signal EQL sense amplifier activation signals SAP and BSAN and the like.

The chip enable signal bCE is a signal for activating the memory chip so that the memory can be accessed. The write enable signal bWE is a signal for permitting either the write operation or the read operation. The restore signal bRESTOR is a signal for maintaining an activation state of the ferroelectric memory from an entry of the read operation until the end of the restore operation.

An internal power supply circuit is configured to receive the external power source voltage VDD and to generate an internal power source voltage Vint and the reference voltage VDC. The internal power source voltage Vint is supplied to each on the components shown in . The external power source voltage VDD itself is also used to activate the bit line BL and the plate line PL as the array voltage. The reference voltage VDC is an intermediate voltage between data 1 and data 0 which is used for detecting the data 1 or the data 0 at the time of detecting data. The internal power supply circuit can include a voltage booster circuit or a voltage step down circuit as appropriate.

The ferroelectric memory according to the first embodiment is activated when a pre charge state standby state is over and a logical value of the chip enable signal bCE supplied from outside of the chip becomes low. With the ferroelectric memory being activated a controller including the row controller the column controller and the read write controller permits an access to the memory cell array .

The first AD converter ADC is configured to convert the external power source voltage VDD into a first digital value DG. More specifically the first AD converter ADC includes resistors R to R that are connected in series between the external power source VDD and a low potential source VSS operational amplifiers AMP to AMP that compare divided voltages obtained by dividing the external power source voltage VDD by the resistors R to R with reference voltages Vref to Vref respectively and amplify the divided voltages and a first encoder ENC that converts a result output from the operational amplifiers AMP to AMP into the first binary digital value DG.

In the first embodiment it suffices that the reference voltages Vref to Vref have the same potential. In addition it suffices that the operational amplifiers AMP to AMP have the same configuration. In this case outputs of the operational amplifiers AMP to AMP are determined by voltages Vd to Vd which are obtained by dividing the external power source voltage VDD by the resistors R to R respectively. Among the voltages Vd to Vd the voltage Vd is the highest voltage followed by the voltage Vd the voltage Vd the voltage Vd and the voltage Vd in descending order. When the external power source voltage VDD is so low that the voltage Vd is lower than the reference voltage Vref the operational amplifiers AMP to AMP output low level potentials. When the external power source voltage VDD increases gradually and the voltage Vd exceeds the reference voltage Vref the operational amplifier AMP exclusively outputs a high level potential. The other operational amplifiers AMP to AMP output the low level potentials. After that when the voltage Vd exceeds the reference voltage Vref the operational amplifiers AMP and AMP output high level potentials. Similarly when the external power source voltage VDD increases the outputs of the operational amplifiers AMP AMP and AMP are changed from the low level potentials to high level potentials in order.

The encoder ENC receives the outputs of the operational amplifiers AMP to AMP and converts the outputs into the first binary digital value DG. For example when all the operational amplifiers AMP to AMP output low level potentials the encoder ENC outputs 00000 as the first digital value DG. When the operational amplifier AMP outputs exclusively a high level potential the encoder ENC outputs 00001 as the first digital value DG. Furthermore when the operational amplifiers AMP and AMP output high level potentials the encoder ENC outputs 00010 as the first digital value DG. Similarly every time the outputs of the operational amplifiers AMP AMP and AMP change from low level potentials to high level potentials the encoder ENC outputs 00011 00100 and 00101 as the first digital value DG in turn.

The second AD converter ADC is configured to convert a temperature characteristic voltage VBGRinto a second digital value DG. The temperature characteristic voltage VBGRis a bandgap reference voltage that changes with a temperature of a semiconductor chip. The temperature characteristic voltage VBGRis generated by a circuit shown in .

More specifically the second AD converter ADC includes resistors R to R connected in series between the temperature characteristic voltage VBGRand the low potential source VSS operational amplifiers AMP to AMP that compare divided voltages obtained by dividing the temperature characteristic voltage VBGRby the resistors R to R with reference voltages Vref to Vref respectively and amplify the divided voltages and a second encoder ENC that converts a result output from the operational amplifiers AMP to AMP into the second digital value DG.

In the first embodiment it suffices that the reference voltages Vref to Vref have the same potential. In addition it suffices that the operational amplifiers AMP to AMP have the same configuration. In this case outputs of the operational amplifiers AMP to AMP are determined by voltages Vd to Vd that are obtained by dividing the temperature characteristic voltage VBGRby the resistors R to R respectively. Among the voltages Vd to Vd the voltage Vd is the highest voltage followed by the voltage Vd the voltage Vd the voltage Vd and the voltage Vd in descending order. When the temperature characteristic voltage VBGRis so low that the voltage Vd is lower than the reference voltage Vref the operational amplifiers AMP to AMP output low level potentials. When the temperature characteristic voltage VBGRincreases gradually and the voltage Vd exceeds the reference voltage Vref the operational amplifier AMP exclusively outputs a high level potential. The other operational amplifiers AMP to AMP output the low level potentials. After that when the voltage Vd exceeds the reference voltage Vref the operational amplifiers AMP and AMP output high level potentials. Similarly when the temperature characteristic voltage VBGRincreases the outputs of the operational amplifiers AMP AMP and AMP are changed from the low level potentials to high level potentials in order.

The encoder ENC receives the outputs of the operational amplifiers AMP to AMP and converts the outputs into the second binary digital value DG. For example when all the operational amplifiers AMP to AMP output low level potentials the encoder ENC outputs 00000 as the second digital value DG. When the operational amplifier AMP outputs exclusively a high level potential the encoder ENC outputs 00001 as the second digital value DG. Furthermore when the operational amplifiers AMP and AMP output high level potentials the encoder ENC outputs 00010 as the second digital value DG. Similarly every time the outputs of the operational amplifiers AMP AMP and AMP change from low level potentials to high level potentials the encoder ENC outputs 00011 00100 and 00101 as the second digital value DG in turn.

The adder ADR receives the first digital value DG from the first AD converter ADC the second digital value DG from the second AD converter ADC and a reference voltage trimming address VDCtrm and outputs a third digital value DG obtained by adding up the first digital value DG the second digital value DG and the reference voltage trimming address VDCtrm. The reference voltage trimming address VDCtrm is an address specifying a magnitude of the reference voltage VDC. After manufacturing a memory chip the reference voltage trimming address VDCtrm is determined in such a manner that the internal voltage generator outputs an optimum reference voltage VDC based on bit line potentials for transferring an actual data 0 and an actual data 1 . For example any one of 6 bit values 000000 to 111111 is output as the reference voltage trimming address VDCtrm such that the reference voltage VDC is set to a predetermined voltage in a range from 0.5 volts to 1.5 volts. However the reference voltage trimming address VDCtrm does not respond to changes of the external power source voltage VDD and the temperature of the memory chip so that the reference voltage trimming address VDCtrm is constant without depending on the temperature and the external power source voltage VDD.

The first digital value DG takes six sets of values from 00000 to 00101 the second digital value DG takes six sets of values from 00000 to 00101 and the reference voltage trimming address VDCtrm outputs a 6 bit value 2sets . The third digital value DG is calculated by a digital processing of a synthesis function operation of the first digital value DG the second digital value DG and the reference voltage trimming address VDCtrm. For example the synthesis function operation is executed by adding up values obtained by multiplying the first digital value DG the second digital value DG and the reference voltage trimming address VDCtrm by weighting coefficients and respectively. That is the third digital value DG is represented by DG DG VDCtrm for example. Hereinafter this synthesis function operation is also referred to as weighted addition. The weighting coefficients and are set based on the characteristics of an actual device.

More specifically because the driver DRV generates the VDC with the VDD as a power source the VDC increases in proportional to the VDD when equals zero. The weighting coefficient determines a dependence of the VDC on the VDD. If it is desired to set the dependence of the VDC on the VDD larger than the proportion to the VDD is set larger than zero and if it is desired to set the dependence of the VDC on the VDD smaller than the proportion to the VDD is set smaller than zero. That is if a fluctuation of the output voltage VDC of the driver DRV shown in is larger than a predetermined value with respect to a fluctuation of the external power source voltage VDD is set larger than zero and if the fluctuation of the output voltage VDC is smaller than the predetermined value is set smaller than zero. An absolute value of can be set to an arbitrary value according to the characteristics of the actual device.

Furthermore if the fluctuation of the output voltage VDC is larger than a predetermined value with respect to a fluctuation of the temperature of the semiconductor chip is set larger than zero and if the fluctuation of the output voltage VDC is smaller than the predetermined value is set smaller than zero. An absolute value of can also be set to an arbitrary value according to the characteristics of the actual device.

Values of and are determined based on a trimming range the minimum value of a trimming and a maximum value of the trimming. Normally both and are positive integers.

The adder ADR that performs the above weighted addition can be simply implemented by combining a simple adder circuit a subtractor circuit and an integrator circuit. Therefore detailed explanations on its configuration will be omitted.

When the potentials of the bit line and the plate line are constant without depending on the VDD in order to keep the output voltage VDC constant with respect to the VDD the digital value to be added in the adder ADR needs to be compensated negatively. That is in order to keep the output voltage VDC constant with respect to the VDD the weighting coefficient is set to a negative value. In this case it is possible to keep the VDC substantially constant by digitally compensating an amount of increase of the VDC due to the VDD in a subtracting manner.

It is possible to set 1 by adjusting values of the resistors R to R and R to R shown in . Furthermore by setting the trimming range of the VDC to pass through 0 volts the origin with 1 and 0 the adder ADR can be configured with simple adders shown in . The following explanations are about an embodiment in which the adders shown in are used.

The driver DRV receives the third digital value DG and outputs the reference voltage VDC according to the third digital value DG. The driver DRV includes drive elements DR to DR capacitors C to C and a switch SWdc. The drive elements DR to DR are provided corresponding to the capacitors C to C respectively and drive each of the capacitors C to C based on a binary value of each bit of the third digital value DG. For example if the third digital value DG is 0111010 the drive elements DR and DR to DR drive their corresponding capacitors C and C to C respectively.

The capacitors C to C have different capacitances from each other and are configured in such manner that the capacitance increases with increase of digit of the third digital value DG. For example when the capacitor C corresponding to the least significant bit of the third digital value DG is set to a reference capacitance Cref the capacitance of the capacitor C corresponding to the second digit bit of the DG is 2 Cref. The capacitance of the capacitor C corresponding to the third digit bit of the DG is 4 Cref. Furthermore the capacitance of the capacitor C corresponding to the fourth digit bit of the DG is 8 Cref. Similarly the capacitance of a capacitor Cn 1 corresponding to n th digit bit 1 n 7 of the DG is 2 Cref.

Therefore when the third digital value DG is 0111010 as is the case in the above example the total capacitance of the capacitors C and C to C that are driven by the drive elements DR and DR to DR becomes 58 Cref.

One end of each of the capacitors C to C is connected to the switch SWdc and eventually the capacitors C to C are connected to an output terminal via the switch SWdc. Therefore a voltage proportional to the sum of the capacitances of the capacitors driven by the drive elements is output as the reference voltage VDC.

The VBGRgenerator includes first to third transistors TP to TP first and second diodes D and D and first to fourth resistor units R to R. The external power source voltage VDD is applied to sources of the first to third transistors TP to TP. The first diode D and the first resistor unit R are connected in parallel between a drain of the first transistor TP and the low potential source VSS. One end of the second resistor unit R is connected to a drain of the second transistor TP. The second diode D is connected between other end of the second resistor unit R and the low potential source VSS and has a dimension n times larger than that of the first diode D n 1 . The third resistor unit R is connected between the drain of the second transistor TP and the low potential source VSS. The fourth resistor unit R is connected between a drain of the third transistor TP and the low potential source VSS.

The VBGRgenerator further includes an operational amplifier AMP that receives a drain voltage Vd of the first transistor TP and a drain voltage Vd of the second transistor TP and outputs a voltage difference Vd Vd between the drain voltage Vd and the drain voltage Vd to gates of the first to third transistors TP to TP. A drain voltage of the third transistor TP is output as the temperature characteristic voltage VBGR.

The second diode D can be configured with n diodes of the same type as the first diode D connected in parallel.

In the circuit shown in the temperature characteristic voltage VBGRis determined by a resistance ratio of the resistor units R to R. In this case it is possible to set a dependence of the temperature characteristic voltage VBGRon the temperature by simply setting only the second resistor unit R.

The second resistor unit R includes resistors R to R connected in series between the second transistor TP and the second diode D and switching elements SW to SW connected in parallel to the resistors R to R respectively. Each of the switching elements SW to SW is a CMOS switch consisting of an N type FET and a P type FET connected in parallel. A resistance ratio of the resistors R to R is R R R R R 1 2 4 8 16.

After a ferroelectric memory is formed the temperature characteristic voltage VBGRor the reference voltage VDC is measured and a setting of a dependence of the second resistor unit R on the temperature is determined for each of chips wafers or lots. For example when the dependence of a memory cell on the temperature is high in a chip a wafer or a lot the dependence of the second resistor unit R on the temperature is to be increased. In the second resistor unit R shown in it is possible to change the resistance of the second resistor unit R in 2ways by changing settings of the switching elements SW to SW. A temperature characteristic trimming address R to R hereinafter also TMPtrm is fixed to appropriately set the resistance of the second resistor unit R after measuring the temperature characteristic voltage VBGRor the reference voltage VDC. With this operation it is possible to set the dependences of the temperature characteristic voltage VBGRand the reference voltage VDC on the temperature for each of the chips the wafers or the lots. It is preferable that a setting of the temperature characteristic trimming address TMPtrm be performed at a test process before dicing after forming the ferroelectric memory on a wafer.

First binary values of the least significant bit to the most significant bit of the reference voltage trimming address VDCtrm are input to first inputs X to X of the six full adder circuits FA to FA respectively. Initially 0 is input to a first input X of the full adder circuit FA. Subsequently binary values of the least significant bit to the most significant bit of the first digital value DG are input to second inputs Y to Y of the full adder circuits FA to FA respectively. The adder ADR performs an addition of the first inputs X to X and the second inputs Y to Y. At this time the adder ADR can perform the above described weighted addition DG VDCtrm . After that values of a result of the addition are re input to the first inputs X to X respectively by which the adder ADR temporarily stores the result of the addition. Furthermore binary values of the least significant bit to the most significant bit of the second digital value DG are input to the second inputs Y to Y respectively. The adder ADR performs the addition of the first inputs X to X and the second inputs Y to Y again. At this time the adder ADR can perform the above described weighted addition result of the first addition DG . A result of the addition S to S is output to the driver DRV as the third digital value DG. With the weighted addition the DG becomes DG VDCtrm DG . As a result it is possible for the internal voltage generator according to the first embodiment to generate the reference voltage VDC that depends on the external power source voltage VDD the array voltage and the temperature of the memory chip.

The internal voltage generator according to the first embodiment generates the reference voltage VDC that depends on the temperature of the memory chip and the external power source voltage VDD or the array voltage thus making it possible to suppress an erroneous data detection. Furthermore with the internal voltage generator according to the first embodiment it is possible to set the degree of dependence amount of dependence of the reference voltage VDC on the temperature in an arbitrary manner.

Configurations of an adder ADR the driver DRV the encoder ENC the operational amplifiers AMP to AMP and the resistors R to R of the second embodiment can be the same as those of the first embodiment.

The voltage VPP is a high level voltage of the word line WL which is used for a non selected word line at the time of reading data or writing data. The high level voltage VPP is generated by boosting a voltage generated from a conventional type voltage VBGR that does not depend on the temperature using a voltage booster. The voltage booster is composed of two pump circuits PUMP and PUMP as shown in . The voltage VPP 2 is an output voltage of the pump circuit PUMP at the first pumping stage that receives the voltage VBGR. The voltage VPP is an output voltage of the pump circuit PUMP at the second pumping stage that receives the voltage VPP 2.

The voltage VPP is a voltage that is generated with the voltage VBGR as a reference without depending on the chip temperature and the external power source voltage VDD. Therefore the operational amplifier AMP outputs a voltage that depends on the chip temperature without depending on the external power source voltage VDD. If the external power source voltage VDD increases with the chip temperature constant a gate voltage of the third transistor TP does not changes but its source voltage increases. As a result a current flowing through the third transistor TP increases and the temperature characteristic voltage VBGRbecomes a voltage that depends on the external power source voltage VDD.

On the other hand if the chip temperature increases with the external power source voltage VDD constant the gate voltage of the third transistor TP decreases. As a result the current flowing through the third transistor TP increases and the temperature characteristic voltage VBGRbecomes a voltage that also depends on the chip temperature.

The encoder ENC shown in converts the temperature characteristic voltage VBGRthat depends on both the chip temperature and the external power source voltage VDD into the digital value DG. The adder ADR adds up the digital value DG and the reference voltage trimming address VDCtrm. Because subsequent operations of the second embodiment are identical to those of the first embodiment explanations thereof will be omitted.

The second embodiment can achieve effects identical to those of the first embodiment. Further the second embodiment do not require the AD converter ADC exclusively used for the external power source voltage VDD. Therefore the internal voltage generator according to the second embodiment can have a downscaled circuit size.

In the third embodiment the first adder ADR adds a first digital value DG depending on the external power source voltage VDD to the temperature characteristic trimming address TMPtrm received into the VBGRgenerator. Therefore when the temperature characteristic trimming address TMPtrm is received into the VBGRgenerator as a second digital value DG the second digital value DG is a value in which the external power source voltage VDD is already considered.

Configurations of the first AD converter ADC the second AD converter ADC the VBGRgenerator the second adder ADR and the driver DRV according to the third embodiment can be the same as those of the first AD converter ADC the second AD converter ADC the VBGRgenerator see the adder ADR and the driver DRV according to the first embodiment respectively. A configuration of the first adder ADR can be basically the same as that of the adder ADR according to the first embodiment. However it suffices that the number of full adder circuits in the first adder ADR be the same as the number of digits of a second digital value DG.

In a similar manner to the first digital value DG in the first embodiment the first digital value DG output from the first AD converter ADC can take six sets of values in response to the external power source voltage VDD. The temperature characteristic trimming address TMPtrm is for example a 4 bit signal. In this case the second digital value DG can take any one of values from 00000 to 10101 . It is also sufficient to configure the temperature characteristic trimming address TMPtrm and the first AD converter ADC such that the second digital value DG can take any one of values from 00000 to 11111 . Ranges of the first to third digital values DG to DG are questions on the specifications so that they can be set in an arbitrary manner.

The VBGRgenerator receives the second digital value DG as the temperature characteristic trimming address TMPtrm. The switching elements SW to SW shown in are controlled by the second digital value DG. At this time switching elements SW to SW are set being considered with the dependence on the temperature and the external power source voltage VDD.

The second AD converter ADC receives the temperature characteristic voltage VBGRfrom the VBGRgenerator and converts it into the third digital value DG. Because an operation of the second AD converter ADC is the same as that in the first embodiment detailed explanations thereof will be omitted.

The second adder ADR adds up the reference voltage trimming address VDCtrm and the third digital value DG and outputs a result of the addition to the driver DRV. In the third embodiment the result of the addition from the second adder ADR is 0000000 to 1000101 . Because subsequent operations of the third embodiment are identical to those of the first embodiment explanations thereof will be omitted.

In the first to third embodiments each of the first and second digital values DG DG DG DG outputs six sets of values. However in order to further increase the dependence on the external power source voltage VDD and the dependence on the chip temperature values that can be taken by the first and second digital values DG DG DG DG can be increased. In this case it suffices to increase pairs of the operational amplifier AMPi where i is a positive integer and the resistor Ri in the first AD converter ADC and the second AD converter ADC.

While certain embodiments have been described these embodiments have been presented by way of example only and are not intended to limit the scope of the inventions. Indeed the novel methods and systems described herein may be embodied in a variety of other forms furthermore various omissions substitutions and changes in the form of the methods and systems described herein may be made without departing from the sprit of the inventions. The accompanying claims and their equivalents are intended to cover such forms or modifications as would fall within the scope and sprit of the invention.

