---

title: High-precision micro/nano-scale machining system
abstract: A high precision micro/nanoscale machining system. A multi-axis movement machine provides relative movement along multiple axes between a workpiece and a tool holder. A cutting tool is disposed on a flexible cantilever held by the tool holder, the tool holder being movable to provide at least two of the axes to set the angle and distance of the cutting tool relative to the workpiece. A feedback control system uses measurement of deflection of the cantilever during cutting to maintain a desired cantilever deflection and hence a desired load on the cutting tool.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08806995&OS=08806995&RS=08806995
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 08806995
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100908
---
This invention was made with Government support under Contract No. DMI 0328162 awarded by National Science Foundation and under Contract Numbers DE FG02 07ER46453 and DE FG02 04ER46471 awarded by the Department of Energy. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 240 417 filed Sep. 8 2009 under 35 U.S.C. 119 which is incorporated by reference herein.

Microfabrication and nanofabrication processes to form features such as channels and trenches often involve complex masking and etching steps. These processes while successful require highly expensive equipment and procedures to conduct micro or nanofabrication steps.

Some efforts have been made to find simpler ways to conduct microfabrication and nanofabrication. Microscale scribing for instance can be used to produce grooves or pockets including grooves of sub micron depths. As an example Atomic Force Microscopes AFMs have been used to perform nanofabrication by using the scanning probe as a tool. A typical AFM scribing process drags an AFM tip along a surface to cause a mechanical or chemical change in the surface. AFM probes including SiNprobes diamond tipped probes and diamond coated silicon probes have been used for scribing. AFM scribing has been used to create grooves with sub micron depths in materials including Al Au Pd SiO Ni and Si. AFMs allow for highly precise control of scribing forces normal to a workpiece and they provide a way to perform in situ metrology of the resulting grooves following production.

However the working volumes of these AFMs tend to be very limited. Further the length of the scribes is typically limited to between a few microns and tens of microns and the speed of the piezoelectric stages of these machines between 0.006 and 1.2 mm min with a maximum speed typically in the range of 1.2 1.5 mm min is slower than would be desirable for production purposes particularly for larger but still highly accurate grooves including those with curvilinear shapes. The number of passes used to scribe a single groove can be for instance as high as one thousand. The low speed and short scribing length result in part from limitations in the piezoelectric actuators used in AFMs.

Other methods of producing long microgrooves include laser scribing and diamond scribing. Laser scribing is capable of rapidly cutting long grooves in materials including stainless steel nickel tungsten and silicon. Laser scribing however provides less control over the shape of each groove cross section than mechanical cutting processes provide.

A high speed scribing device shuttle unit exists which can be equipped to the Fanuc Robonano OiB machine and this machine can rapidly scribe nanoscale high precision grooves using a rigid diamond tool. However the Fanuc Robonano OiB machine achieves this capability via extreme rigidity of the tool and machine structure through the use of 1 nm resolution encoders and through the use of static air bearings on all machine axes. As a result the Fanuc Robonano OiB machine is extremely expensive.

As the demands of miniaturization technology grow it is desirable to overcome shortcomings of traditional scribing systems and methods.

A high precision micro nanoscale machining system is provided according to embodiments of the present invention. A multi axis movement machine provides relative movement along multiple axes between a workpiece and a tool holder. A cutting tool is disposed on a flexible cantilever held by the tool holder the tool holder being movable to provide at least two of the axes to set the angle and distance of the cutting tool relative to the workpiece. A feedback control system uses measurement of deflection of the cantilever during cutting to maintain a desired cantilever deflection and hence a desired load on the cutting tool.

In typical mechanical scribing processes a key goal is to achieve high rigidity which is deemed critical to accurate positioning and cutting. Therefore conventional tools are designed to be rigid and any deflection is deemed undesirable. In some conventional tools rigid micro groove cutting tools and thread cutting tools have been created using focused ion beam FIB machining. Such tools have been used to cut features using a turning process and system. The rigid tools are used along with an extremely stiff and high precision machine.

Embodiments of the present invention use a different approach employing a flexible cutting tool that eliminates the need for the machine to be extremely rigid and relaxes requirements on position sensing and position control. This provides a relatively inexpensive cutting process compared to conventional high precision processes such as diamond scribing diamond turning processes.

An embodiment of the invention is a high precision micro nanoscale machining system. A multi axis movement machine provides relative movement among multiple axes between a workpiece and a tool holder. For example linear axes X Y Z and rotary axes e.g. B and C axes can be provided. A nonlimiting example multi axis movement machine is a microscale machining tool mMT .

A cutting tool is disposed on a cantilever held by the tool holder. The tool holder is movable e.g. along two axes to set an orientation e.g. angle and distance of the cutting tool relative to the workpiece. A feedback control system uses measurement of cantilever deflection during cutting to maintain a desired cantilever deflection and hence a desired load on the cutting tool. A particular example control system includes a proportional integral derivative PID control algorithm with feedforward for one or more of the axes of relative movement to control the tool holder. This system maintains the cantilever at a particular e.g. predetermined angle relative to and or a particular e.g. predetermined distance from the workpiece. The resulting cantilever deflection is either constant or varied to achieve a desired cutting profile.

An example system of the invention comprises a cutting tool that includes a cutting geometry suitable for planing shaping and is attached to or is a unitary extension of a flexible cantilever. The particular cutting geometry of the tool can be determined by the size and shape of the features to be cut. An example tool can have submicron dimensions. The tool can include separate cutting geometry and cantilever units that are joined or it can include a single monolithic unit. Example tools can be formed from materials such as silicon silicon coated with a harder material such as diamond pure diamond or any sufficiently strong and wear resistant material. The end of the cantilever opposite the cutting geometry is joined e.g. mechanically or using adhesive to a tool holder.

The tool holder in an example embodiment is part of a cutting assembly which includes the tool holder a displacement sensor that senses bending of the cantilever and provides a signal input for the control system and one or more micro stages for allowing the displacement sensor output e.g. a laser beam or strain gage output signal and the cantilever to be aligned with one another. The cutting assembly is mounted to a motion platform with multiple axes of motion for instance three linear axes of motion and two rotary axes of motion between the cutting tool and the workpiece. Movement of the motion platform is preferably controlled using a precision controller such as but not limited to a CNC controller. The motion platform can be custom fabricated or may be a modified machine such as a high precision milling machine with its spindle replaced with the cutting assembly.

In a particular example embodiment the cutting tool comprises an atomic force microscope AFM tip disposed on a flexible cantilever. The AFM tip may be for instance an existing AFM tip such as a commercially available tip or it may be a modified AFM tip. A cutting tool can be fabricated as a nonlimiting example by modifying AFM probes using focused ion beam FIB machining. The cutting tool can also be fabricated in other ways. A nonlimiting example modified AFM tip is shaped to have a predetermined cutting geometry that provides a back rake face and an end clearance face. The intersection of the back rake face and end clearance face in an example tip provides a cutting edge that maintains contact with a workpiece when the cantilever is deflected due to loading of the cutting tool against a workpiece. In some example modifications the modified cutting tool would not be suitable for use in an AFM but it performs well for machining according to example methods.

Nonlimiting example embodiment systems with AFM tips and flexible tools provide an AFM based micro scribing or cutting assembly for a machining system. Particular resolutions and displacements in an example AFM tip based system are a function of the properties of the movement platform e.g. mMT that is used. Such a system however is not intended to limit the invention in its broader aspects including by resolution or displacement. An example cutting assembly fits onto a 5 axis mMT in place of a spindle. The cutting assembly permits an AFM probe or other flexible cutting tool to be mounted at varying angles relative to a workpiece and permits the deflection of the AFM or flexible tool cantilever to be measured during workpiece AFM or flexible tool contact with the workpiece.

A preferred machining process of the invention uses the highly flexible tool to cut a groove or a pocket of several grooves. In the process the cutting assembly is first advanced toward a workpiece until the cutting geometry makes contact with the workpiece. The assembly is further advanced toward the workpiece until the deflection of the cantilever portion of the tool results in a desired load on the cutting geometry. The workpiece is then moved in a desired pattern while the tool is engaged similar to a planing machine which results in a matching pattern being cut into the workpiece. During cutting the signal from the displacement sensor is used as an input to a feedback loop that dynamically adjusts the stage controlling the distance between the cutting assembly and workpiece in order to maintain the desired cantilever deflection and thus controlling the desired load on the cutting geometry. The applied load the cutting geometry the cutting speed and the workpiece material determine the depth of cut. The relation between applied load cutting geometry cutting speed workpiece material and depth of cut can be determined via calibration cuts or via simulation. In other example embodiments the angle of the cutting tool can be adjusted during cutting to maintain a desired cutting angle.

With an example system a relatively large change in cantilever deflection is advantageously required to increase the load on the tool enough to achieve a small increase in depth of cut. Accordingly lower precision actuators and position measurement devices can be used in an example motion platform yet the system can still machine extremely precise features. Example systems can achieve high precision manufacturing at reduced cost compared to conventional high precision machining processes which are dependent upon extremely rigid and expensive machines.

An example process and system of the invention achieves cutting load cutting speed and cutting distances that are much larger than can be achieved with a conventional AFM. Embodiments of the invention provide high speed high precision micro nanoscale machining systems that can cut grooves with depths and widths of a couple microns or less as a nonlimiting example and with lengths that can be greater than as a nonlimiting example 100 mm. The example system can also be used to machine pockets produced from multiple grooves with micro nanoscale depths. Grooves cut using example systems can have arbitrary cross sections be cut in arbitrary patterns and have arbitrary depths at various points in a groove. A wide variety of materials may be used. Compared to conventional AFM scribing example systems and methods can also provide greater cutting forces and relatively larger curvilinear movements. In example embodiments in which the cutting geometry on each example cutting tool is different than the geometry on the end of an AFM tip improved cutting performance can be provided when removing larger amounts of material than are typically removed when scribing with an AFM.

Example systems of the invention can achieve fabrication of MEMS features yet a lengthy sequence of fabrication steps is not required to cut features such as grooves. Many other applications are also possible as will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art. Example systems allow more control of features e.g. groove cross section than is possible with laser scribing. Example processes and systems of the invention also provide the ability to rotate the workpiece stage which provides the capability of cutting smooth curvilinear grooves. Compared to some highly rigid diamond scribing machines example embodiments provide relatively inexpensive systems and methods that employ highly flexible tools tools with specialized cutting geometries lower resolution encoders and more conventional mechanical bearings. As a result an example system can use much e.g. by a factor of ten or more less expensive hardware to accomplish suitable results.

Preferred embodiments will now be discussed with respect to the drawings. The drawings include schematic figures that are not to scale which will be fully understood by skilled artisans with reference to the accompanying description. Features may be exaggerated for purposes of illustration. From the preferred embodiments artisans will recognize additional features and broader aspects of the invention.

As best shown in A and A the example multi axis movement machine provides movement along linear axes X Y and Z via an X axis movement stage a Y axis movement stage and a Z axis movement stage respectively and rotary axes B and C via a B axis rotary stage and a C axis rotary stage respectively to control relative movement between the workpiece and the tool holder . As used herein the X Y Z B and C axes will refer to the directions shown in and as marked in . It will be understood that other directions axes of movement are possible. Nonlimiting example linear axes are capable of displacements of several centimeters at speeds of at least 25 50 millimeters per minute. In a nonlimiting example embodiment travel for each of the linear X Y and Z stages of the example mMT is 35 mm. The example B stage allows the tool holder to rotate up to 180 degrees and the C stage allows the workpiece to be rotated 360 degrees. Actuation of the axes can be accomplished using linear and rotary motors voice coil actuators or lead screw actuators as nonlimiting examples.

Measurement of axis position is accomplished in example embodiments using linear and rotary encoders equipped for each stage. Magnetic encoders or optical encoders may be used for example. Other example precision methods for measuring linear and rotary axis positions include high accuracy distance measuring sensors such as LVDT laser interferometer or reflection based laser displacement sensor. An example linear encoder is a 20 nm resolution linear optical encoder. Example encoders for the two rotary stages include 0.316 arcsec resolution encoders.

A controller such as a computed numerically controlled CNC controller and in a more particular nonlimiting example a Delta Tau Turbo UMAC CNC controller is provided to control movement of the example movement machine including relative movement of the tool holder and the workpiece . The example controller has a built in implementation of proportional integral derivative PID control with feedforward for each of the axes of the mMT and has built in implementation of standard CNC move commands.

For machining the workpiece a cutting tool is mounted to the tool holder . The cutting tool generally includes a cutting tip tip disposed at or near the end of a flexible cantilever for contacting the workpiece during machining. As a nonlimiting example the cantilever can have a flexibility of about 42 N m the stiffness of commercial silicon AFM probes. The upper bound on stiffness though could be say several thousand N m. As used herein at the end of the cantilever is intended to also refer to at or near the end of the cantilever. The cutting tool can be mounted to the tool holder at varying angles relative to the workpiece .

A nonlimiting example cutting tool is an atomic force microscope AFM probe either unmodified or modified e.g. custom modified for machining. Example cutting tools in preferred systems of the invention can be provided to achieve desired feature cross sections. The shape of the cutting tools can have variations comparable to those that are used in macroscale planing and shaping tools. Nonlimiting example macroscale tool shapes are found in the ASM handbook ASM International 2009 incorporated in its entirety herein by reference. Particular embodiment tools of the invention can be fabricated by FIB processes particular examples of which are described below.

Compared to known macroscale tools cutting tools used in example systems are highly flexible. Also FIB manufacture to produce an example tool provides geometries at a much smaller scale. FIB machining has previously been used to modify AFM tips but into shapes suitable for metrology not for cutting. The tip geometries of some commercial probes are optimized for metrology purposes and may neither be structurally strong enough nor properly shaped to be good cutting tools. The FIB machining process is used in particular example fabrication methods of the invention to produce tools having predetermined cutting geometries.

In an alternative embodiment the cutting tool can be a cantilever with a piece of single crystal diamond with a prescribed cutting geometry attached to one end. A nonlimiting example includes a single crystal diamond AFM tip bonded to a sapphire cantilever with a metallic adhesive. This cantilever can in turn be bonded to a substrate e.g. a sapphire substrate mounted to the tool holder . Such tools can be fabricated by modifying diamond AFM probes e.g. those manufactured by Micro Star Technologies via FIB machining. Examples of such probes can have a rectangular rake face an end clearance face and two side clearance faces though other rake face shapes can be provided.

In an example embodiment the tool holder is part of a cutting assembly shown in which in an example embodiment is configured in any suitable manner such as but not limited to bolting clamping or otherwise mounting to fit to the Z axis stage and or the B axis rotary stage of the multi axis movement machine e.g. in place of a spindle assembly . In this way the movement machine provides a motion platform for the cutting assembly . In an example embodiment as best viewed in a portion of the tool holder e.g. a bar includes a mounting site for attaching a rigid tool portion such as by an adhesive . The flexible cantilever is a unitary piece with integrated with connected fixedly coupled e.g. mounted or otherwise combined or incorporated with the rigid tool portion so that the flexible cantilever projects from the tool holder .

The example cutting assembly which supports the tool holder includes a frame on which is coupled e.g. mounted a first microstage positioned by actuator a second microstage positioned by actuator and a third microstage positioned by actuator . show examples of the microstages . The microstages as a nonlimiting example can be manual microstages such as but not limited to stages driven by screw driven actuators e.g. using manually actuated lead screws. In the example cutting assembly the first microstage is adjustably coupled to a bottom surface of the frame for selectable movement along the Z axis the second microstage sits directly on top of and is adjustably coupled to the first microstage for selectably moving the tool holder along the X axis and the third microstage is attached to the second microstage e.g. via an angle bracket and can adjust position along the Y axis.

Generally in an example microscale machining e.g. scribing process the tool tip is brought into contact with the workpiece and the workpiece is moved relative to the tip in a direction coincident with the axis of the flexible cantilever . Moving the workpiece along this direction helps to prevent twisting or buckling of the cantilever . However it is also contemplated that the tool and or workpiece could be moved relative to one another along other directions or via other methods. The example process is generally analogous to microscale planing in that material is removed from a workpiece in the form of chips by moving the workpiece along a set path at a set velocity underneath the tip but it differs among other ways in that the radius of the tool tip can be of the same order of magnitude as an uncut chip thickness and the tip is mounted on a highly flexible cantilever . This does not limit the types of geometries that can be generated because the workpiece rotary stage C axis stage can be used to achieve curvilinear scribe geometries without violating this constraint.

The flexibility of the example cantilever inhibits direct control of cut depth using the controller. Particularly the high flexibility of the cantilever renders it difficult to force the tip to move relative to the workpiece at a set depth. Instead the depth of cut and effective rake angle of the tool change as the cantilever deflects under applied load and cutting forces. However in an example system and method depth of cut is dependent on tool geometry cutting speed probe mounting angle and tool cutting load all of which can be controlled. Thus according to embodiments of the present invention the tool load is controlled by measuring cantilever deflection and using the result as feedback to maintain a deflection corresponding to a desired load. In this way example systems and methods rely on controlled deflecting during cutting. An advantage of this method is that the cantilever deflection required to develop a load that results in a very small depth of cut e.g. less than 100 nm is on the order of microns. Hence stage movements do not need to be nearly as precise as with a rigid tool. Therefore a less expensive machine with less rigid stages and lower cost encoders can be used.

According to embodiments of the present invention deflections of the cantilever are measured during workpiece tip contact. This measurement in example embodiments is provided by a precision displacement sensor which is part of the cutting assembly . The displacement sensor can be for instance fixedly coupled e.g. mounted to a side surface of the frame . In an example embodiment the displacement sensor is a laser displacement sensor and in a more particular embodiment is a confocal laser displacement sensor such as but not limited to a Keyence LT 9010M confocal laser displacement sensor. Other types of displacement sensors are also contemplated such as but not limited to a strain gage or other displacement sensor integrated into a cutting tool cantilever.

The example displacement sensor supplies an output beam to measure the deflection of the cantilever during cutting. A nonlimiting example displacement sensor can measure distance from itself with a resolution of 10 nm while continuously focusing on a single spot on the cantilever displacement mode or while continuously sweeping back and forth across the cantilever scanning mode . The former option allows displacement of a single point to be measured at a rate for example of 1562 Hz while the latter option allows the bent shape of the cantilever to be measured at a rate of for example 27 Hz via 13 points located at 10 m lateral increments. The first microstage and the second microstage permit alignment of the cantilever with the output e.g. laser beam of the displacement sensor by providing selective adjustment of the tool holder .

The exact relationship between tool load and depth of cut can be established via empirical testing and used to pick a set of conditions that will result in a desired depth of cut. The relationship between applied load and cantilever deflection can be established analytically using a cantilever beam model of the tool. In a particular example method the deflection measurement from the displacement sensor is used as input to a feedback loop that maintains a set load normal to the workpiece during scribing and is used for contact detection during workpiece registration. The flexibility of the tools used in example systems with controlled deflection based on feedback allows very small depths of cut to be possible using relatively inexpensive equipment.

Accordingly in an example operating method for operating the cutting tool workpiece registration is accomplished by contacting three points on the workpiece with the tip that are not collinear and then fitting the coordinates of those points to a plane. Contact detection is accomplished by moving the workpiece via X and Y stages to an X Y coordinate of interest and then advancing the cutting assembly towards the workpiece using the Z axis stage while monitoring the laser displacement sensor output beam . When the laser sensor output indicates a change in cantilever position of a prescribed amount examples of which will be apparent to an artisan the contact Z coordinate is taken to be the Z encoder output offset by that amount.

To control the load applied to the tool tip e.g. AFM tip the displacement value output beam from the displacement sensor is related to the load on the tool tip. The relationship between tip displacement and nominal load is dependent on the cantilever geometry and can be readily calculated. In an example embodiment for each cutting tool the relationship between the nominal load and tip displacement normal to the workpiece surface is first established using a model such as but not limited to a 2D finite element model FEM of the cutting tool. In an example FEM the nominal load is defined as the load normal to the workpiece surface that would result in a given cantilever deflection if the forces on the tip in the direction of cut are zero. A cantilever beam model of the tool can also be used to establish the relationship between the load and the cantilever deflection. In an example method an assumption is made of no forces in the direction of cut for simplicity. This assumption should be valid because such forces would have to act through a very short moment arm to affect cantilever deflection and thus such an effect is not likely to be large. Plane stress with specified thickness is also assumed for all elements in the model and the mean width of each cantilever is used as the element thickness.

The relationship between the displacement sensor output and the tip displacement is then established via simulation and or calibration. In an example method calibration involves moving the tip into contact with an artifact e.g. a flat silicon artifact and then continuing to slowly move the cutting assembly towards the artifact up to a set distance. The relationship between the sensor output and the known additional distance moved by the cutting assembly which approximates the actual deflection provides an example calibration curve. Using this curve and the results of the finite element analysis the relationship between nominal load and displacement sensor output e.g. laser output is established.

During an example scribing method the controller e.g. the CNC controller with PID feedforward control executes a planned XYC stage trajectory while a corresponding tip nominal load trajectory is followed. Achieving a set nominal load involves for example continuously measuring the displacement of a point on the back of the cantilever and then relating the measurement to the tip displacement via the provided calibration curve. The difference between the measured tip displacement and the displacement that would achieve a desired nominal load is used as an input to a control algorithm which can be fairly simple. The output from the control algorithm is used to control the Z stage of the movement machine to control load on the cutting tool .

As stated above the cutting tool can comprise a probe of an AFM including a commercial AFM probe or a modified AFM probe. show an example cutting tool geometry in which the cutting tool is embodied in a NanoWorld Probepoint DT NCHR AFM probe. Each AFM probe includes a monolithic silicon cantilever and an AFM tip with a nominal stiffness of 42 N m coated with a 100 200 nm thick layer of polycrystalline diamond. These example probes have a three sided pyramidal cutting geometry near the apex of the AFM tip and there are two clearance faces on the trailing side of the tip. There are also two faces on the leading side of the tip but they are oriented such that only one face the rake face meets with the two clearance faces to form the cutting edges. Both the cutting edges and the tip apex for the example AFM probe have radii of 100 200 nm due to the conformal diamond coating.

The example AFM tip has a constant apparent rake angle similar to a conventional cutting tool. However the effective rake angle the angle of the effective rake face relative to the direction of cut is affected by more than just the AFM tip geometry. Particularly the effective rake angle is dependent upon both tip geometry and the orientation of the tip during cutting.

The orientation of the axis of the tip is controlled by the unbent orientation of the AFM cantilever which can be set via the mounting angle the applied load normal to the workpiece F and the total forces generated in the direction of cut cutting force F as shown in . Hence if all other factors such as depth of cut and tool wear were held constant a greater mounting angle would result in a more positive effective rake angle. Similarly a greater applied load and or greater cutting forces would result in a more negative effective rake angle. For instance shows the orientation of the rake face when the applied load Fand cutting forces Fare low while shows the orientation of the rake face when the applied load Fand cutting forces Fare high. shows a change in rake angle and cutting edge displacement that occurs with applied load.

The micro geometry of the example AFM tip also affects the effective rake angle. The cutting edges of an AFM tip have radii rthat are close to and often more than the uncut chip thickness t. As a result the effective rake angle is more negative than the rake angle would be based on rake face orientation alone. Hence the effective rake angle is determined by both the rake face orientation relative to the direction of cut and the edge radii of the tip relative to the uncut chip thickness. In previous simulations of microscale cutting where the uncut chip thickness is less than the edge radius of the tool the effective rake angle has been estimated by extending a line between the lowest point on the cutting edge and a point on the rake face with an elevation that is 1.5 times the uncut chip thickness. Hence the effective rake angle is determined by both the rake face orientation relative to the direction of cut and the edge radii of the tool.

Additionally the combination of micro geometry and uncut chip thickness determines if a chip is formed during scribing or if workpiece material is only ploughed. Chip formation will not occur if the uncut chip thickness is less than the minimum chip thickness t which is a material dependent fraction of the cutting edge radius for many workpiece materials.

Using example methods using the AFM probe shown in as the cutting tool workpieces were machined including a 1.6 m thick thermally evaporated aluminum film deposited on a polished silicon substrate and a 1.2 m thick aluminum film thermally evaporated onto a 10 nm thick chromium adhesion layer that was thermally evaporated onto a polished silicon substrate. For both workpieces the depth of cut was less than 25 of the film thickness and the film Ra was less than 5 nm as measured with an optical profilometer. During cuts the nominal load on the AFM tip was ramped up from zero to the desired load while cutting was in progress i.e. while the workpiece was moving and in contact with the AFM tip and then maintained at the desired load for the rest of the cut. This was done to minimize tip breakage due to sudden loading. After generating a calibration curve and registering the workpiece according to the example methods described herein grooves were cut under various conditions and the worn AFM tip was examined with a scanning electron microscope SEM to determine the amount of tool wear and to examine chips stuck to each tip. Parameters describing groove geometry such as groove depth groove width groove skewness groove kurtosis and unfolded burr height were considered.

For employing long multiple tool pass cuts using the example AFM probe a low mounting angle e.g. a more negative effective rake angle high cutting speed and a moderate load result in low wear over long scribing lengths. Lowering the cutting speed to be comparable to the speeds used when cutting inside an actual AFM typically no greater than 1.2 mm min may not be beneficial. More positive effective rake angles larger mounting angles can give rise to high levels of tool wear and fracture.

While the depth of cut increases the most during the first couple of tool passes the amount of material removed generally increases during all tool passes and multiple tool passes result in a more uniform depth of cut over the course of the groove. A change in geometry e.g. from a sharp tool to a duller tool also affects the amount of material removed per pass and the groove shape. Formation of very short chips can result in large amounts of particle generation which can be difficult to remove from the workpiece surface. However short chips have the advantage of preventing chip snarling.

Nonlimiting example chips cut using example methods with an AFM probe vary in length from 1.6 961 m and in average width from 0.4 0.75 m. Ribbon chips washer type helical chips and tubular chips can be generated. An example of each chip type is shown in .

For short single tool pass cuts wear increases significantly with increased cutting load and with increasing mounting angle. Furthermore significant tool fracture can occur at high mounting angles. Wear radius increases with increased load at low speeds and high mounting angles or at high speeds and low mounting angles. Conversely wear radius decreases with increased load at low speeds and low mounting angles or high speeds and high mounting angles. At high mounting angles the tip can experience fracture and can appear sharp while being unsuitable for cutting.

Groove depth the distance between the original surface and the lowest point in the groove generally decreases with increased mounting angle increases with increasing load at a low mounting angle and decreases with load at a higher mounting angle and high cutting speed. The change in groove width how wide the groove is at the level of the original surface with cutting conditions follows similar trends.

Comparison of groove skewness indicates the amount of asymmetry in the groove and kurtosis indicates how square versus peaked the groove is shows that squarer grooves tend to be very symmetric while more peaked grooves tend to be more skewed. Burr height an estimate of the height of a burr had it not folded over is highly dependent on mounting angle at high speeds but not at low speeds. Burr height increases with load at low speed but decreases with load at high speed. Hence the interaction of speed with load and speed with mounting angle is significant.

In machining rake angle has a strong influence on cutting forces and the quality of cut surfaces and thus it is helpful to understand the effective rake angles present in scribing e.g. AFM based scribing .

If the cutting edge is assumed to be infinitely sharp the resultant ideal rake angle would be defined as shown in . This value is listed in Table 1 for each new and used tip. However the cutting edge radii of both the new and worn AFM tips given in Table 1 are large relative to the depth of cut. Therefore the effective rake angle is more negative than the ideal rake angle.

Vogler M. P. On the Modeling and Analysis of Machining Performance in Micro Endmilling PhD. Thesis University of Illinois Urbana Ill. 2003 estimated the effective rake angle during micro scale cutting simulations by drawing a line between the lowest point on the tool and the point on the cutting face where the chip separates from the tool. The point of tool chip separation can be estimated as some multiple of the uncut chip thickness t as shown in . In Vogler the uncut chip thickness multiple was assumed to be 1.5. This same calculation was applied to each oriented AFM tip profile in order to calculate the effective rake angle shown in . Also the uncut chip thickness was assumed to be equal to the corresponding mean groove depth. The resultant effective rake angles are listed in Table 1.

As can be seen in Table 1 the ideal rake angle could be either positive or negative depending on the mounting angle. However the most positive effective rake angle 40.5 occurred when a high speed low mounting angle and high load was used. This means that the use of a higher mounting angle resulted in a much more positive ideal rake but the effective rake could be more negative. Also the highly negative rake angles observed suggest that despite significant chip formation a large amount of ploughing also occurred which is supported by the presence of side burrs. The number of tool passes can have a significant effect of chip morphology.

A high mounting angle of 30 generally results in much higher wear than a low mounting angle of 5 which may be due to tool fracture. This is also true of a more moderate mounting angle of 15 . This angle approaches that of a typical commercial AFM which uses a mounting angle of about 13 . Furthermore a best case of groove formation occurred at a high load. Increased cutting speed did not result in any additional wear provided that a low mounting angle was used. Also loads that are too low can result in significant burr formation but not a clear groove. This is likely due to severe ploughing since the depth of cut will be small relative to the chip radius i.e. due to the minimum chip thickness. Therefore successful cutting with a DT NCHR diamond coated AFM probe may be possible using even higher loads and higher cutting speeds if a low mounting angle is used. Initial wear of the AFM probe can likely be reduced through the use of an AFM tip that converges to a chisel edge with plenty of material supporting the cutting edge as opposed to a pointed tip.

Cutting conditions resulting in low wear and good groove formation were provided by cutting short straight grooves. However for many manufacturing applications a curved groove may be desirable. The example system allows formation of a curved groove for example by rotating the workpiece during contact with the tool .

In a nonlimiting example method for cutting a curvilinear groove using a speed of 25 mm min a mounting angle of 5 and a nominal load of 0.5 mN the translational stages and the workpiece rotary stage were used to cut a continuous spiral pattern. The inner radius of the resulting spiral was 236 n the spacing between revolutions was 3 m and groove length was 82 mm. A section of the spiral shaped groove is shown in . The groove curvature is clearly visible and the groove is both well formed and continuous. AFM images were taken of sections from the first fifteen revolutions of the groove i.e. over the first 24 mm. shows an example of movement of the workpiece to provide a curvilinear groove. An AFM image from the first revolution in is shown in .

The bottom of the spiral shaped groove is tilted slightly so that the deepest part of the groove was on the side of the groove centerline closer to the center of the spiral. This can be seen in . This can occur if for instance forces generated during the cut transverse to the direction of cut cause the cantilever to twist. This tilt can possibly be corrected by using a tool tip with appropriate side relief angles to minimize forces on the tool due to contact with the groove sidewall or by using a more torsionally stiff cantilever.

Grooves as long as 82 mm with depths up to 0.29 m can be cut in example embodiments using a single tool pass and cutting speeds at least as high as 25 mm min. Generally groove formation involves significant chip formation. However ploughing can occur particularly at low load levels or when conditions give rise to highly negative effective rake angles. Groove geometry is highly dependent on cutting conditions. Well formed grooves and good tool wear can be achieved using a high cutting speed a high cutting load and a low AFM probe mounting angle. Multiple tool passes do not increase groove depth significantly but are likely responsible for improved consistency in groove depth along its length. Tool wear occurs either gradually or by the sudden appearance of a large fracture depending on cutting conditions. When wear occurs gradually there may be a short initial period of fast wear followed by a long period of very slow wear.

While commercially available diamond coated silicon AFM probes can be used in example embodiments the shapes of such commercial probes are typically optimized for metrology and not strength. Therefore early during cutting part of the AFM tip on each probe can wear away very quickly or even fracture and the resultant tool that performs subsequent cutting can have an unpredictable shape. Additionally the probes are typically pyramid shaped which means that grooves with rectangular cross sections cannot be cut. Further the rake angle and clearance angle of commercial AFM probes cannot be specified. Also the effective rake angle can be increased by increasing the mounting angle of the probe but without a sufficiently structurally strong tool this tends to only result in tip fracture. Chip snarling can be an issue as well when cutting with an AFM tip.

Accordingly additional example embodiments provide cutting tools for use with microscale and nanoscale machining systems such as those provided herein by modifying existing AFM probes for example silicon AFM probes using focused ion beam FIB machining. Such probes can be optimized for cutting exclusively and in such cases they likely would not be suitable for metrology. Thus these example modified probes are referred to herein as AFM probe based micro planing tools.

Example AFM probe based micro planing tools according to example embodiments can be configured to achieve one or several criteria to improve cutting performance. It is preferred that example AFM probe based microplaning tools be structurally strong enough to avoid fracture during cutting. Each tool preferably has a sharp cutting edge so that the effective rake angle is not determined solely by the edge radius and depth of cut. This also reduces the minimum chip thickness and hence promotes more chip formation. Also each tool preferably comprises clearance faces that avoid excessive rubbing between the tool and workpiece. Further example tools are designed to minimize chip snarling. This can involve for example a change in edge radius rake angle that results in discontinuous chip formation or incorporation of a chip breaker geometry. Additionally it is preferred that such tools be producible using a minimum number of cuts on an FIB machine.

As shown in the example tool includes a small negative back rake angle. This back rake angle can be more positive than the back rake angle present on commercial AFM probes used in other example embodiments. The example back rake angle is still negative however because it provides more support for the material at the cutting edge reducing the chance of fracture. A negative back rake is also selected to avoid cutting forces that may cause the tool to dig uncontrollably into soft material such as aluminum given the flexibility of the cantilever . Zero degree angles and positive angles may also be used however. A constraint on the positive angle is the tool strength.

A radius is provided shown immediately above the rake face which acts as a chip breaker. A radius type chip breaker is preferred over a ramp shaped chip breaker because the radius will result in a smaller stress concentration factor compared to the sharp corners involved with having a ramp. A notch type chip breaker is also possible. It is also contemplated that the tool can be provided with the chip breaker omitted.

The example tool can be produced using three FIB cuts. The first cut is made looking at the side of the AFM probe resulting in formation of the back rake and end clearance face. The second cut is made looking at the front of the probe at a slight angle and results in the formation of one of the side clearance faces. The third cut is made looking at the front of the probe at a slightly different angle and results in the formation of the other side clearance face.

In an example FIB method using a diamond cutting tool four through cuts are used. The first cut forms the rake and end clearance faces. The second and third cuts form the side clearance faces. The fourth cut intersects the rake face to form the cutting edge. This last cut is made because when cutting through a piece of materials a sharper edge is formed on the side furthest from the ion source. However if a rake face shape such as a v shape or curved shape does not lend itself to the use of a fourth cut that step can be eliminated at the cost of a somewhat larger cutting edge radius.

During cutting with a cutting tool such as a commercially available or modified AFM probe the cantilever will deflect due to cutting forces and the applied load normal to the workpiece surface. The cantilever deflection changes the orientation of the cutting geometry of the tool. It is useful for the cutting and relief faces of the tool to remain in a single orientation regardless of the applied load which is the situation that normally occurs with rigid cutting tools. In this way rake angles and clearance angles could be specified during tool design independently of how the tool will be loaded.

To accomplish a uniform cutting geometry operation in an example embodiment the end of the bent cantilever e.g. an AFM cantilever should be at the same orientation relative to the workpiece at all times. This can be accomplished by adjusting the mounting angle of the probe so that a given load will result in the desired orientation. Since the groove cutting assembly is mounted on a rotary stage B axis stage the mounting angle can easily be varied by rotating that stage.

According to a method of the present invention the mounting angle required for the end of the bent cantilever to be parallel to the workpiece surface can be calculated using a 2D beam model that accounts for loads applied to the tool tip normal to the workpiece the probe mounting angle and the location of the cutting edge contact point relative to the end of the cantilever . As an example shows a mounting angle required to obtain a desired cantilever end orientation at different loadings when a cantilever is taken to be 30 m wide 125 m long and either 4 or 4.5 m thick. It can be seen in that the thickness of the cantilever has a large effect on this angle. By contrast the location of the cutting edge relative to the end of the cantilever does not have a very large effect. The location of the cutting edge is described by both an x coordinate XT and a y coordinate YT where the x axis is coincident with the end of the axis of the cantilever. Only XT is varied in the plot because the required mounting angle was found to be insensitive to changes in YT.

Using similar calculations a uniform cutting geometry can be insured during steady state cutting for any combination of cantilever and FIB machined cutting geometry on its end. However when the load is being ramped up to the desired value the cutting geometry will experience transient orientations. If cutting is occurring during this period i.e. depth of cut is being ramped up during a cut the cutting edge should still be the only contact point between the tool and the workpiece and the clearance face should not rub against the workpiece. Therefore the end clearance angle should be greater than the mounting angle used. Based on it is therefore desirable to have a clearance angle of at least 10 to satisfy this condition for the example cantilever geometry assuming that the applied load does not exceed 0.575 mN.

The example simplified tool design was constructed by modifying a silicon NCHR AFM probe using two cuts performed by FIB machining. shows the profile created during the first cut and shows the profile created during the second cut. There is a little rounding on the side of the tool that is introduced during the first cut due to the Gaussian nature of the ion beam distribution but this is acceptable since the rounded areas are removed during the second cut. During the second cut there was also some rounding but this occurred on the face on the opposite side of the tool from the rake face and hence was not significant. are SEM images of the example cutter geometry and cantilever for the simplified tool . An example cutting edge radius for the simplified tool is 58 nm. Cutting using the example tool showed reduced rates of fracture. It is contemplated that a larger clearance angle can be used for the tool to reduce wear of the material on the clearance face. Also a sufficient side angle or more torsionally stiff cantilever may be used to reduce torsional forces on the tool .

A tool according to another embodiment of the present invention is similar to the tool but further includes a 5 degree side relief angle on both sides of the rake face to improve straightness of cut. Also to keep the clearance face of the tool from rubbing against the workpiece the end clearance angle is increased from 10 degrees to 20 degrees. This design is shown in . Due to the increased complexity of this tool three FIB cuts are used for fabrication instead of just two. The first cut shown in produces the rake and end clearance faces. In the image the AFM tip prior to FIB cutting is shown on the left and after cutting is shown on the right. The second cut shown in produces one side clearance face of the tool. The third cut shown in produces the other side clearance face. Particular embodiments of the tool include back rake angles of 20 and 10 widths varying from 0.56 m to 0.59 m side relief angles from 6.2 to 8.0 and edge radii from 35 nm to 67 nm. All variations except for the different rake angles can be provided by variations in the FIB machining process.

As opposed to conventional AFM scribing example embodiments of the present invention can provide cuts that are much longer with a much faster scribing speed to achieve a good production rate. These longer cuts can result in uninterrupted chip formation unlike in cases where the cut is only a few microns long. A large tip and edge radii due to coated e.g. diamond coated probes and large cutting speed involve scribing loads on the order of several hundred N for example which are larger than typically used in conventional AFM scribing.

Example embodiments can provide a microscale or nanoscale machining process that can cut relatively long freeform grooves at high speeds on relatively large workpiece areas. Example applications of the invention include MEMS micro electromechanical systems device fabrication maskless lithography manufacturing hot embossing molds manufacturing microfluidic devices with very narrow and shallow channels in a wide range of materials fabricating reflective optics based lithography masks by scratching thin reflective coatings off a non reflective substrate the production of complex surface patterns composed of closely spaced or intersecting grooves for changing surface properties such as hydrophobicity and creating optically diffractive devices such as but not limited to LCD backlight light guilds which can include microgrooves with depths of e.g. 2.5 10 m separated by 100 250 m.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

