---

title: Bookmark exchange
abstract: A bookmark communicates precisely the location within an asset where a video clip referenced by the bookmark can be found as well as the start and stop times of the video clip. A subscriber watches a program on a video device or other platform. When the subscriber decides to create a bookmark, the subscriber pauses the program. A bookmark interface is initiated, wherein the subscriber creates a bookmark references a video clip of the program. The first subscriber then selects at least one other subscriber to send the bookmark to. A second subscriber receives the bookmark. The receipt of the bookmark activates a bookmark interface that is displayed on the video device of the second subscriber. The second subscriber initiates an action associated with the bookmark, which may include selecting to watch the video clip associated with the bookmark.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08488942&OS=08488942&RS=08488942
owner: Cox Communications, Inc.
number: 08488942
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100628
---
This disclosure relates in general to media bookmarks and more particularly to a portable bookmark that communicates precisely where in an asset a video clip referenced by the bookmark can be found.

A dramatic increase in content availability has occurred in recent years. Coupled with this phenomenon is the proliferation of a wide variety of consumption devices. Accordingly the way media is consumed is rapidly changing. Further with the advent of video on demand services and digital video recorders consumers are less likely to watch shows at the same time or in the same place. This is in stark contrast to the period of television s infancy where the family would gather around the set together. This may be referred to as appointment television. What started as a social activity has evolved largely into an individual experience where the viewer often watches a show alone when the time is convenient for the viewer e.g. characterized as personal television.

Television viewing provides a common experience often affording even total strangers a social connection on which to initiate conversation. Today however users favor non live media sources such as Digital Video Recorders DVRs Video On Demand VOD and pay per view PPV services and even rented physical media e.g. DVDs via Netflix to view at the users convenience .

Furthermore viewers today can become overcome by the number of channels and programs available in the typical home. Viewers can no longer efficiently browse a printed TV guide and decide what shows to watch. Finding something of interest to watch has become very difficult. As a result viewers often randomly scan multiple channels channel surf to find a show of interest.

Digital TV service providers have tried to respond to this information overload problem in a few ways. Electronic program guides EPGs improve a viewer s ability to filter through a multitude of choices. Interactive program guides IPGs provide basic search capabilities. However the shear volume of channels and shows makes searches difficult unless a viewer knows exactly what show or search terms to include in a search request. Despite the availability of devices for searching electronically viewers still prefer channel surfing as a method to select what to watch. DVR systems will automatically record shows for users based on previous viewing history. Nevertheless advanced suggestion technologies often miss shows a user would like to have viewed.

Another consequence to the revolution in the viewing habits of consumers is the drastic decline in the effectiveness of advertising. Without the in flux of advertising dollars the quality of content can suffer. The primary source of revenue for television stations is advertising revenue. Most cable networks sell advertising spots to national advertisers and some also provide local advertisement availability to cable operators that then sell such local advertising spots to local advertisers. Advertisers are now looking at ways to create relationships with consumers. People may not care much for commercials but they like goods and services and are in constant search of information about them. Thus advertising needs to be developed into something that people are not only willing to put up with but that will also cause people to actually view advertisements in a positive light.

Accordingly viewers need new mechanisms for content discovery and navigation while providers and advertisers need new ways to analyze and monetize usage.

It can be seen then that there is a need for a way to bring people together through content discovery while opening new avenues for revenue generation.

To overcome the limitations described above and to overcome other limitations that will become apparent upon reading and understanding the present specification embodiments for bringing people together through content discovery while opening new avenues for revenue generation are disclosed.

The above described problems are solved by sharing a bookmark that communicates precisely where in an asset a video clip referenced by the bookmark can be found.

An embodiment includes a method for creating a bookmark associated with a video clip for exchange with communication system users. The method includes presenting a program on a video device such as VOD on the web mobile devices etc. of a first subscriber pausing the program by the first subscriber initiating by the first subscriber a bookmark interface using the bookmark interface by the first subscriber to create a bookmark referring to a video clip of the program and selecting a second subscriber by the first subscriber for routing the bookmark to.

In another embodiment a method for using a bookmark associated with a video clip is disclosed. The method includes receiving a bookmark associated with a video clip in response to receiving the bookmark activating a bookmark interface for display on a video device and initiating an action associated with the bookmark.

In another embodiment a system for creating bookmarks is disclosed. The system includes a media device disposed at a first subscriber for presenting content thereon and a content processing device coupled to the media device the content processing device processing content received for presentation by the media device wherein the content processing device further implements a bookmark interface that presents bookmarking functions on the media device for creating a first bookmark associated with a video clip from the content presented on the media device.

A computer readable medium including executable instructions which when executed by a processor creates a bookmark associated with a video clip for exchange with communication system users is disclosed. The computer readable medium includes instructions executable by the processor to present a program on a video device of a first subscriber pause the program by the first subscriber initiate by the first subscriber a bookmark interface use the bookmark interface by the first subscriber to create a bookmark referring to a video clip of the program and select a second subscriber by the first subscriber for routing the bookmark to.

These and various other advantages and features of novelty are pointed out with particularity in the claims annexed hereto and form a part hereof. However for a better understanding of the disclosed embodiments the advantages and the objects obtained reference should be made to the drawings which form a further part hereof and to accompanying descriptive matter in which there are illustrated and described specific examples of the disclosed embodiments.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to bringing people together through content discovery while opening new avenues for revenue generation are disclosed. A portable bookmark is provided that communicates precisely where in an asset a video clip referenced by the bookmark can be found.

According to embodiments of the present invention the CATV system is in the form of a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across the HFC network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via a server side head end and a client side customer via a client side set top box STB functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art modem CATV systems may provide a variety of services across the HFC network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of the CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data are provided to the customer television set via the set top box STB . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the CATV system likewise are provided by the STB . As illustrated in the STB is a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. The input output mechanism receives input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as the remote control device and the keyboard . The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the STB via a suitable communication transport such as the infrared connection . The STB also includes a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner is provided for processing video and data to and from the STB and the server side head end system described below.

The STB also includes an operating system for directing the functions of the STB in conjunction with a variety of client applications . For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on the television the operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of the STB for example to output the news flash to the television at the direction of the client application responsible for displaying news items.

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer is provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment of the present invention the middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces API that are exposed to client applications and operating systems that allow the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer is included on the server side of the CATV system for facilitating communication between the server side application server and the client side STB . According to one embodiment of the present invention the middleware layer of the server side application server and the middleware layer of the client side STB format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML or a more data efficient derivative thereof.

The set top box passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television via a one way communication transport . The STB may receive signals from the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network . The STB may transmit signals from the client side of the CATV system to the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network . Both in band and out of band signaling may be provided when the equipment provides for such. For example Cable set top boxes and other elements of the CATV system may be configured to send and receive out of band data for information such as program guides channel lineups and updated code images. As is understood by those skilled in the art the in band signaling space operates at a frequency between 54 and 860 megahertz. The signaling space between 54 and 860 megahertz is generally divided into 6 megahertz channels in which may be transmitted a single analog signal or a greater number e.g. up to ten digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink illustrated in between the HFC network and the set top box comprise out of band data links. As is understand by those skilled in the art the out of band frequency range generally lies between zero and 54 megahertz. According to embodiments of the present invention data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from the server side application server through the HFC network to the client side STB . Operation of data transport between components of the CATV system described with reference to is well known to those skilled in the art. However those skilled in the art will recognize that the present embodiments are not meant to be limited by the CATV system described above. Other configurations frequency bands etc. may be implemented without departing from the scope of the embodiments described herein.

Referring still to the head end of the CATV system is positioned on the server side of the CATV system and includes hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through the HFC network to client side STBs for presentation to customers via televisions . As described above a number of services may be provided by the CATV system including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

The application server is a general purpose computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the client side set top box via the HFC network . As described above with reference to the set top box the application server includes a middleware layer for processing and preparing data from the head end of the CATV system for receipt and use by the client side set top box . For example the application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from third party services via the Internet for transmitting to a customer through the HFC network and the set top box . For example a weather report from a third party weather service may be downloaded by the application server via the Internet . When the application server receives the downloaded weather report the middleware layer may be utilized to format the weather report for receipt and use by the set top box .

According to one embodiment of the present invention data obtained and managed by the middleware layer of the application server is formatted according to the Extensible Markup Language and is passed to the set top box through the HFC network where the XML formatted data or a compressed format thereof may be utilized by a client application in concert with the middleware layer as described above. As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art a variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by the application server via distributed computing environments such as the Internet for provision to customers via the HFC network and the set top box .

According to embodiments of the present invention the application server obtains customer support services data including billing data information on customer work order status answers to frequently asked questions services provider contact information and the like from data services for provision to the customer via an interactive television session. As illustrated in the services provider data services include a number of services operated by the services provider of the CATV system which may include data on a given customer.

A billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. According to embodiments of the present invention the billing system may also include billing data for services and products subscribed to by the customer for bill processing billing presentment and payment receipt.

A customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. The customer information database may also include information on pending work orders for services or products ordered by the customer. The customer information database may also include general customer information such as answers to frequently asked customer questions and contact information for various service provider offices departments. As should be understood this information may be stored in a variety of disparate databases operated by the cable services provider.

An electronic mail system may contain information such as electronic mail addresses high speed Internet access subscription information and electronic mail usage data. An authentication system may include information such as secure user names and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services. As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate data services systems are illustrated as a collection of data services for purposes of example only. The example data services systems comprising the data services may operate as separate data services systems which communicate with a web services system described below along a number of different communication paths and according to a number of different communication protocols.

Referring still to a web services system is illustrated between the application server and the data services . According to embodiments of the present invention the web services system serves as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising the data services . According to embodiments of the present invention when the application server requires customer services data from one or more of the data services the application server passes a data query to the web services system . The web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any required data for a requesting customer as identified by a set top box identification associated with the customer. The web services system serves as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and the application server . That is the application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is the application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems. The web services system is operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer data. The customer data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to the application server for ultimate processing via the middleware layer as described above.

In the provider may provide content and communication services to customers via the communications network from a headend . The first customer may be watching a program on television . The customer may bookmark a point in the program . The creation of the bookmark in program allows customer to send customer a clip of the program so that customer can view the clip of program . After watching the clip of program customer may decide whether to watch the program associated with the clip. The creation of the bookmark in program by subscribers provides a service that requires the subscribers to interact with their television which creates subscriber loyalty and retention. Further the creation of the bookmark in program by subscribers promotes content for the communications system provider and provides a form of promotion for the content provider . The system may be configured so that such clips may be opted in or out by the customers at will. In the content provider is separate from the communications system provider . However those skilled in the art will recognize that content may be provided by the communications system provider a separate content provider or both.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that bookmarks need not be limited to transmission entirely over the communications network . For example bookmarks may be sent to other customers of the communications provider via email push links etc. In addition social media may be used in conjunction with bookmarks according to an embodiment of the invention. For example bookmarks may be provided on Twitter MySpace Facebook Friendster etc. that allow others to view the video clip. Such users should otherwise have access to the content e.g. they must also be a subscriber of the communications system provider . This sampling of content may be accomplished on the Internet thus the recipient need not reside with the same cable instance as the sender .

Bob decides to create a bookmark and thus causes the bookmark interface to be displayed on TV . Using the bookmark interface Bob selects a portion of the program to bookmark and causes a first bookmark of a location in the asset and a direction to be transmitted through the communications network . Bob has selected to forward the bookmark to Louise and Mike .

The first bookmark is more precise than chaptering as used in DVDs. Nevertheless chaptering merely provides navigation for a DVD and is not externally available to other applications. Further the concept of chaptering does not exist within video on demand VOD today. Bookmarking exists today in VOD solely for the sole purpose of restarting the VOD from a paused state at the point where the VOD was paused. However VOD bookmarks like DVD chaptering bookmarks are not generally externally available to other applications i.e. they are limited to local VOD applications and are not shared outside the cable system context.

Louise is also watching a program on TV . TV receives the program from provider through communications network using a conditional access card e.g. a CableCARD . Depending upon how Louise has configured the bookmark interface upon receiving first bookmark from Bob bookmark interface may display a message indicating the receipt of the first bookmark . Louise may save the first bookmark for later reference select the bookmark to watch the video clip associated with the first bookmark delete the first bookmark purchase the movie containing the bookmark etc.

As mentioned the first bookmark is also forwarded to Mike . Mike has a portable media device that he receives content on from cable modem . A wireless adapter may be used to route the first bookmark from the cable modem to the portable media device of Mike . Mike may also be provided with the same or similar options that Louise was provided regarding the handling of the first bookmark e.g. save the first bookmark for later reference select the bookmark to watch the video clip associated with the first bookmark delete the first bookmark .

Examples of applications that may use bookmarks according to an embodiment of the invention include creating video greetings through concatenating bookmarks associated with clips from multiple sources which is similar to CD mixing. Bookmarks for movie recommendations which include a buy option for a VOD asset on a STB broadband cell DVD show tickets or other merchandise may also be created. Bookmarks associated with commercial or other advertisement may be forwarded to increase impressions rather as Super Bowl advertisements are viewed outside the initial context. Bookmarks may also be shared across media e.g. from video subscription to cellphone. Bookmarks associated with an abridged version of a movie could be created and shared for consumption on a phone or other video device. Bookmarks do not necessarily have to be associated with video but may only refer to audio which may be used as a ringtone. User may create bookmarks for previews or reviews which may be forwarded to other users. Bookmarks may include a qualifier that is associated with a clip to apply trick modes such as rewind slow motion etc. Trivia applications may be created based on bookmarks wherein customers are asked to identify the movie actor product etc. Bookmarks may also be created to refer to video clips for selling sell products such as the dress an actress is wearing. Those skilled in the art will recognize that this list is not meant to be exhaustive but rather provides only a few examples of how bookmarks according to an embodiment of the invention may be used as well as examples of applications that take advantage of bookmarks according to an embodiment of the invention.

The bookmark interface is implemented by the set top box or other conditional access device . The video clip of the program identified by the bookmark maintains the subscriber security provided by pin challenges so that restrictions on mature adult content is not by passed by selection of a bookmark. A bookmark may integrate multiple blocks of content e.g. adult and sport. The information provided by the bookmark that is sent from one subscriber to another would only need the reference to the globally unique ID for a video asset. The bookmark also would identify the place in time which would reference NPT values in an asset to start the clip. The bookmark would also be of a defined length with a maximum limit set by the cable system provider or content provider with reference to . The bookmark interface may be configured to support creation of the bookmark at the point where the video is paused. Digital Rights Management DRM such as included with music videos is handled by the conditional access device or set top box or equivalent function on the Internet. The differences in media types can be addressed in the metadata asset or folder but would have to be synchronized across media. The media being bookmarked could be linked with MPEG2 H.264 VC 1 SMPTE 421M Flash or any other codec. The exchange concept takes advantage of the benefits of viral networks to promote content. This information sharing could also be used to share advertising. A shared bookmark would allow a user to see a video clip and then be presented with subscription or purchase options. The previews provided through the use of bookmarks according to an embodiment of the invention may be implemented to allow only a fixed preview. Nevertheless a bookmark may include fixed previews that are concatenated by a subscriber in multiple discrete clips in a non chronological order. A bookmark according to an embodiment of the invention may include an asset description e.g. an XML file that may be shared. The bookmark with the asset description may then be sent via email or any other mechanism and may be cross referenced on a central global asset ID repository not shown .

The program is identified and an initiation point and termination point may be provided to define the video clip associated with the bookmark . Instead of a termination point the metadata may include the duration for the video clip associated with the bookmark . The bookmark may also include a container . While a bookmark normally only includes metadata regarding the video clip associated with the bookmark in some instances a container may be provided to provide a short video clip such as an advertisement . Similarly the existing metadata may be embellished by commentary from the sender.

The bookmark also may include video clip control parameters . Such parameters define controls related to the video clip that is associated with the bookmark . Some video clip control parameters may include play save delete respond to sender limitations trick modes etc. Limitations define restraints on the creation of bookmarks and or contiguous bookmarks written on a single asset to avoid long excerpts or highlight piracy such as with sporting events. The video clip control parameters do not necessarily provide the functionality to carry out the operations but only define what controls apply to the video clip that is associated with the bookmark .

The bookmark also may include decision parameters . Decision parameters define responses that the subscriber may make regarding the video clip that is associated with the bookmark . For example if the bookmark refers to video on demand VOD content the decision parameters enable the subscriber to purchase the VOD content. Alternatively the decision parameters allow the subscriber to decline the purchase of the VOD content. In some instances the subscriber may be presented a bookmark that offers a preview of premium channels and a chance to upgrade at a discount. In this instance the he decision parameters allow the subscriber to subscribe to the premium channels.

A second subscriber receives a bookmark . The receipt of the bookmark activates a bookmark interface that is displayed on a media device of the second subscriber e.g. a television PC cellphone etc. For example the bookmark interface may allow the second subscriber to click a link in an email that initiates the display of the bookmark. The second subscriber initiates an action associated with the bookmark which may include selecting to watch the video clip associated with the bookmark . The initiating an action may also include unlocking parental controls authenticating authorizations and navigating purchase options of a licensing window.

Embodiments may also be implemented in combination with computer systems and program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. By way of example computer readable media can include computer storage media or other tangible media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced with other computer system configurations including hand held devices set top boxes DVRs multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics game consoles minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network e.g. through a web service and browser.

Embodiments implemented on computer readable media may refer to a mass storage device such as a hard disk or CD ROM drive. However it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed or utilized by a processing device e.g. server or communications network provider infrastructure.

By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may include but is not limited to RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other tangible medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a processing device.

As mentioned briefly above a number of program modules and data files may be stored and arranged for controlling the operation of processing devices. Thus one or more processing devices may be configured to execute instructions that perform the operations of embodiments of the present invention.

It should also be appreciated that various embodiments of the present invention can be implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a processing device and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the processing devices. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance requirements. Accordingly logical operations including related algorithms can be referred to variously as operations structural devices acts or modules. It will be recognized by one skilled in the art that these operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software firmware special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof without deviating from the spirit and scope of the present invention as recited within the claims set forth herein.

Memory thus may store the computer executable instructions that when executed by processor cause the processor to implement a system as illustrated elsewhere in this detailed description of embodiments. However memory may also be configured to implement the bookmark interface generated by processor .

The foregoing description of the exemplary embodiment of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not with this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

