---

title: Overlaying data in an augmented reality user interface
abstract: Disclosed are various embodiments for overlaying data in an augmented reality user interface. A camera associated with a mobile device is accessed and activated, and a location associated with the mobile device is detected. A direction in which the camera is pointed is detected and video captured by the camera displayed. Indicators associated with points of interest on a golf course are overlaid on the video in a user interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09197763&OS=09197763&RS=09197763
owner: 
number: 09197763
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20101105
---
In the game of golf a player often utilizes various pieces of information to improve his her score. As a non limiting example during a round a player may utilize yardages to a green to a hazard and or to a lay up position. Similarly a player may also utilize statistical data from a round to determine strengths and weaknesses in his her game. As this data may be difficult to accurately determine and present to a user a user may be left at a disadvantage.

Included are systems and methods for overlaying data in an augmented reality user interface in a mobile device. At least one embodiment of a method includes accessing a camera in communication with the mobile device activating at least one video capture capability of the camera determining a location associated with the mobile device determining a direction in which the camera is pointed displaying in a display associated with the mobile device video captured by the camera in a user interface and overlaying at least one indicator associated with at least one predetermined point of interest on the video in the user interface.

Also included are embodiments of a system. At least one embodiment of the system includes means for accessing a camera means for activating at least one video capture capability of the camera means for determining a location means for determining a direction in which the camera is pointed means for displaying video captured by the camera and means for overlaying at least one indicator associated with at least one predetermined point of interest on the video.

Also included are embodiments of a non transitory computer readable medium executable in a mobile device. At least one embodiment includes logic that accesses in the mobile device a camera in communication with the mobile device logic that activates in the mobile device at least one video capture capability of the camera logic that determines in the mobile device a location associated with the mobile device logic that determines in the mobile device a direction in which the camera is pointed logic that displays in a display associated with the mobile device video captured by the camera in a user interface and logic that overlays in the mobile device at least one indicator associated with at least one predetermined point of interest on the video in the user interface.

Other systems methods features and advantages of this disclosure will be or become apparent to one with skill in the art upon examination of the following drawings and detailed description. It is intended that all such additional systems methods features and advantages be included within this description and be within the scope of the present disclosure.

In the following discussion a general description of the system and its components is provided followed by a discussion of the operation of the same. Embodiments disclosed herein include a system and or method that utilize global positioning and or other positioning system capabilities of a mobile device for use by a golfer on a golf course. Embodiments disclosed herein can further take advantage of compasses accelerometers gyroscopes and or other motion sensing capabilities of the mobile device to provide position specific information about a golf course to a golfer. More specifically by utilizing position data from the mobile device embodiments disclosed herein may be configured to provide segment lines for lay up shots provide dynamic lay up positions provide touch point positions and or provide statistical information in a user interface.

At least one non limiting example may include a mobile device or user device such as a cellular telephone personal digital assistant iphone itouch ipod Blackberry devices running Android iOS WebOS and or Windows Phone operating systems or other devices or operating systems as can be appreciated. The mobile device may be configured with global positioning hardware as well as software for determining a user s global position with reference to a golf course. Embodiments may also be configured to access satellite and or other images or video associated with the determined global position. Additionally the device can be configured with compasses gyroscopes accelerometers or other motion or direction sensing hardware accessible via the operating system from which movements of the device can be sensed. Embodiments may also be configured to access at least one camera in communication with a mobile device which in many cases includes at least one camera that is integrated with the device hardware. The camera can be configured to capture video and or imagery which can be accessed by the operating system and other software applications executed on the device.

Accordingly embodiments of this disclosure can combine location and position data from the mobile device as well as video and or imagery from the camera to display an augmented reality view of a golf course on which the golfer is located. In other words embodiments can overlay information that may be helpful to a golfer over a view of the golf course that is captured by the camera and displayed a display associated with the device. In this way a golfer can view information about the golf course from a first person perspective. Embodiments can overlay information about one or more position points e.g. lay up positions distance to a hole etc. hazards e.g. a bunker water hazard or other points of interest on a golf course. When one or more of the predetermined distances is close to or in a hazard such as a bunker or water hazard or other undesirable location that lay up distance may be disabled.

Similarly some embodiments may be configured to receive and or utilize dynamic lay up distances. The dynamic lay up distances may be user configurable for a particular hole golfer and or golf course. Additionally another non limiting example may be configured to retrieve imagery of the golf course that can be used to generate a telescope and or fly over view of certain portions of the hole that are relative to the vantage point of the user. In other words the application can utilize a plurality of different images and or video of a particular golf hole or portion of a golf hole to provide a clear representation of the golf hole. As one example the application can generate a view of a green hazard or other point of interest that may not be visible from the position of the golfer but that shows the point of interest as if it is being viewed from a direction consistent with the golfer s position.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates an exemplary embodiment of a communications network which may be configured to facilitate communication of data. More specifically as illustrated in the non limiting example of a network may be utilized and include a Wide Area Network WAN such as the Internet a public switched telephone network PSTN mobile communications network MCN and or other network. Similarly the network may include a wire line and or a wireless local area network LAN . Regardless of the communications medium and protocol the network may be coupled to one or more user devices . The user devices collectively referred to as user device or a mobile device may include a personal computer laptop special purpose location device and or other device that is configured for communicating with the network . While the user devices may be wire line devices the mobile device may be configured for wireless communications and be configured to communicate with the network via an access point or other wireless communications device.

Additionally included in the non limiting example of is the access point . The access point may be configured as a wireless cellular tower a wireless fidelity Wi Fi hotspot a worldwide interoperability for microwave access WIMAX tower a cellular tower and or other wireless node. Also included in the non limiting example of is a server . The server may be configured to facilitate the communication of data such as golf course data Internet data email instant messages short message service SMS messages audio messages video messages and or other electronic data.

Further included in the non limiting example of is a satellite network . More specifically the satellite network may include a global positioning system GPS satellite network or other satellite network that communicates data with the user devices for facilitating a determination of position of those user devices. While the satellite network is depicted in as a single satellite this is a non limiting example as the satellite network may include other satellites computing devices servers networks etc. depending on the particular configuration. Additionally a user device can determine its position based on other information as well such as the location of access points with which it can communicate network based location techniques and other location sensing systems and methods as can be appreciated.

The motion sending hardware can include one or more gyroscopes accelerometers compasses or other hardware components that can be used to detect motion of the device . Positioning hardware can include satellite communications hardware that can communicate with one or more positioning satellites e.g. GPS to determine a geographic position of the device . The device can also include a camera which can capture video and or imagery on which data regarding points of interest can be overlaid according to embodiments of this disclosure.

The memory component can include any one or combination of volatile memory elements e.g. random access memory RAM such as DRAM SRAM SDRAM etc. and or nonvolatile memory elements e.g. ROM hard drive tape CDROM etc. . Moreover the memory may incorporate electronic magnetic optical and or other types of storage media. One should note that the memory can have a distributed architecture where various components are situated remote from one another but can be accessed by the processor .

The software in the memory may include one or more separate programs which may include an ordered listing of executable instructions for implementing logical functions. In the example of the software in the memory component may include the golfing logic as well as an operating system . The operating system may be configured to control the execution of other computer programs and provides scheduling input output control file and data management memory management and communication control and related services. The operating system can also provide application programming interfaces API through which the various hardware components of the device can be accessed. As one non limiting example the operating system can provide a positioning API through which a software application executed on the device can request information about geographic positioning of the device. Similarly the operating system can also provide API s through which motion sensing data and camera video or imagery can be accessed as well.

The golfing logic may be configured to facilitate processing of motion data as determined by the motion sensing hardware positioning data as determined by positioning hardware and combine this with golf course data user data and or other data that can be locally stored or retrieved from a server . The golfing logic can overlay various data regarding a golf course on which a user of a device may be located atop imagery and or video captured by the camera . In other words the golfing logic can generate a user interface that can be displayed on a display device in communication with the device.

A system component and or module embodied as software may also be construed as a source program executable program object code script or any other entity comprising a set of instructions to be performed. When constructed as a source program the program is translated via a compiler assembler interpreter or the like which may or may not be included within the memory component so as to operate properly in connection with the operating system .

In addition to the camera which is described above the input output devices that may be coupled to the system I O Interface s may include input devices for example but not limited to a keyboard mouse touch screen microphone etc. Further the input output devices may also include output devices for example but not limited to a printer display speaker etc. Further the input output devices may further include devices that communicate both as inputs and outputs for instance but not limited to a modulator demodulator modem for accessing another device system or network a radio frequency RF or other transceiver a telephonic interface a bridge a router etc. It should be appreciated that the camera can be configured to communicate with the rest of the device components via the system I O interface s and that the depicted illustration is a non limiting example presented for ease of explanation of embodiments of the disclosure.

Additionally included are one or more of the network interfaces for facilitating communication with one or more other devices. More specifically network interface may include any component configured to facilitate a connection with another device. When the mobile device is in operation the processor may be configured to execute software stored within the memory component to communicate data to and from the memory component and to generally control operations of the mobile device pursuant to the software. Software in the memory component in whole or in part may be read by the processor perhaps buffered within the processor and then executed.

One should note that while the description with respect to includes the mobile device as a single component this is a non limiting example. More specifically in at least one embodiment the mobile device can include a plurality of servers personal computers telephones and or other devices. Similarly while the description of describes the mobile device as a mobile device this is also a non limiting example. More specifically depending on the particular exemplary embodiment other components such as the server and or the access point may include similar elements and or logic. Similarly while the golfing logic may be configured in with the mobile device the golfing logic may take one or more different forms depending on the particular configuration. More specifically as referred to herein the golfing logic may include a user implemented piece s of logic for receiving geographic data for a golf course. However some embodiments refer to the golfing logic as a technician implemented piece s of logic for mapping and or otherwise configuring data for the user application.

Additionally while the golfing logic is illustrated in as including a single software component this is also a non limiting example. In at least one embodiment the golfing logic may include one or more components embodied in software hardware and or firmware. Additionally while the golfing logic is depicted as residing on a single device such as mobile device the golfing logic may include one or more components residing on one or more different devices.

One should also note that while the non limiting example of illustrates a mobile device similar hardware and or software may be associated with the server . More specifically the server may include one or more processor memory component etc. as well as logic for processing and or providing data to the mobile device .

Accordingly reference is now made to which one example of a user interface generated by the golfing logic or any embodiment of this disclosure and displayed on a mobile device . The depicted user interface shows video and or imagery that can be taken from a camera in communication with a mobile device . In the depicted embodiment the camera can be integrated in the hardware of the mobile device on a side of the device opposing the display device. Accordingly the video captured by the camera can be similar to a view that the user sees when standing on a golf course. The mobile device can access the positioning hardware and or motion sending hardware to determine a geographic position of the mobile device and the golfing logic can determine whether the mobile device is positioned on a golf course for which point of interest data is available.

As described above point of interest data regarding a golf course can include lay up positions hazard data hole location data distance to various portions of a green bunker position and other point of interest data as can be appreciated. If the golfing logic determines that the mobile device is positioned on a golf course for which point of interest data is available it can detect which hole on the golf course on which the mobile device is positioned. Upon detecting the hole of the golf course on which the mobile device is positioned the golfing logic can display a hole indicator as well as display the video captured by the camera as well as overlay point of interest data related to the hole on the user interface to generate an augmented reality view of the golf course from the vantage point of the user.

Because the location of the mobile device can be ascertained from the motion sensing hardware and positioning hardware the golfing logic can calculate the distance to various points of interest of the hole and overlay distance markers or indicators on the video . The golfing logic can update the displayed video as well as the displayed markers as the mobile device moves to provide a substantially real time view of the golf course as it is viewed from the camera . The golfing logic can rely on the motion sensing hardware to detect small movements of the mobile device e.g. slight movements of the user s hands when holding the device and rely on the positioning hardware to detect a change of location on the golf course. By tracking the location and motions of the mobile device in this way the golfing logic can continually update the yardage markers reflected on the displayed video .

Returning again to the depicted user interface shown are various yardage indicators overlaid onto the video captured by the camera that represent points of interest on a golf course. In the depicted example the golfing logic can either calculate a layup marker or retrieve data about where a layup marker should be positioned from a server or locally stored data about the golf course. In the example of a layup marker showing a position on the golf course that is one hundred fifty yards from the green can be shown on its position the video in the display. The golfing logic can either select a point in a fairway that is one hundred fifty yards from the green or rely on one or more predetermined layup positions and place markers showing these predetermined layup positions in the user interface . Additionally the golfing logic that display a green position marker that designates a location of the green associated with the hole on which the user is located. The green yardage indicator can display a distance to various portions of the green e.g. front middle back etc. .

The golfing logic can also overlay the various point of interest data on the video in a way that provides an additional visual as to the distance from the location of the mobile device to the point of interest. As illustrated in the example of which is not drawn to scale the various points of interest are rendered on the display in a way that illustrates the relative distance of each point of interest from the location of the mobile device . For example the text associated with the layup marker is rendered below the marker and or text associated with the right bunker because in the depicted example the right bunker is located further away from the mobile device than the one hundred fifty yard layup position. Likewise the marker and or text associated with the right bunker is rendered above a horizontal position on the video of the bunker. Additionally the marker and or text associated with the right bunker is rendered above a horizontal position in the video associated with the bunker but the same is also rendered at a higher vertical position on the screen relative to the marker and text associated with right bunker .

The user interface also includes a radar simulation view of the points of interest of the hole. The radar simulation view shows a bird s eye view of the position of the points of interest relative to one another. The radar simulation view can also display a suggested course of action for the golfer. In other words the radar simulation view can display a suggested sequence of shots for the golfer to reach the green in a recommended number of strokes. The radar simulation view can also display field of view indicators that show the visible field of view displayed in the user interface in terms of angular degrees or a rough measure of a visible field of view in terms of a portion of a circle and or ellipse.

Reference is now made to which continues the example of . illustrates indicators or markers that are scrollable. In the depicted example if a user of the mobile device scrolls the user interface by providing input via an input device e.g. a touch screen as shown by the depicted swipe gesture the point of interest markers or indicators can shift in the direction of the user input while maintaining their relative orientations to one another. Additionally the user interface as it scrolls can reveal additional markers or indicators for which there was not enough room within the user interface to display in the example of . In some embodiments the indicators can scroll automatically while maintaining their relative orientation to one another indicating relative distance from a position of the mobile device .

Continuing the example of reference is now made to which depicts an alternative illustration of the user interface of . In the example of the user interface is depicted as having a degree of position error relative to the actual positions of points of interest on the golf course. It should be appreciated that the granularity and or accuracy of the positioning hardware and the motion sensing hardware may be less than ideal introducing a position error to the overlaid markers or indicators. Accordingly a user can activate the re center user interface element which can allow the user to reorient or recalibrate the video captured by the camera with the overlaid markers.

Accordingly reference is now made to which continues the example of . In a user has activated a re center user interface element to correct a position error exhibited in the overlaid markers or indicators on the video . Accordingly a user can provide input via a touch screen or other input device to reposition the video and or the indicators. In the depicted example the user can input the depicted swipe gesture on a touch screen input device to compensate for the position error.

The golfing logic can thereafter compensate for the position error of the positioning hardware by storing a degree of the position error that can be inferred from the adjustment made by the user to re center the user interface. The golfing logic can rely upon the stored position error to compensate for the placing of markers or indicators on video captured by the camera for the remainder of the hole the round of golf or any other period of time. In some embodiments the golfing logic can if the user re centers the user interface rely only on the motion sensing hardware to calculate a relative degree of movement from a position of the device associated with the time the user invokes the re centering process. In this way the golfing logic can be tuned to assume if the user invokes re centering that the position reported by the positioning hardware is flawed and rely only on the motion of the device sensed by the motion sensing hardware from that point onwards.

Reference is now made to which continues the examples of . illustrates how the user interface can be updated substantially in real time as the golfing logic detects movements of the orientation and or position of the device . In the depicted example the device has been rotated causing certain points of interest to lie outside the field of view of the camera . Additionally the golfing logic updates the horizontal position of the indicators above their associated point of interest on the video of the golf course captured by the camera as the device is rotated and or moved by the user.

Referring next to shown is a flowchart that provides one example of the operation of a portion of the golfing logic according to various embodiments. It is understood that the flowchart of provides merely an example of the many different types of functional arrangements that may be employed to implement the operation of the portion of the golfing logic as described herein. As an alternative the flowchart of may be viewed as depicting an example of steps of a method implemented in a user device according to one or more embodiments.

To begin in box the golfing logic can access a camera associated with a mobile device . In box video capture capability of the camera can be activated so that video can be displayed on a display associated with the mobile device. In box the golfing logic can determine a location associated with the mobile device . As described above the golfing logic can access positioning hardware and or motion sensing hardware associated with a mobile device . In box the golfing logic can determine an orientation of the mobile device . In other words the golfing logic can determine a direction in which the camera is pointed. In box the golfing logic can display video captured by the camera in a user interface and in box the golfing logic can overlay points of interest associated with a golf course on the video show in the user interface.

Although the golfing logic and other various systems described herein may be embodied in software or code executed by general purpose hardware as discussed above as an alternative the same may also be embodied in dedicated hardware or a combination of software general purpose hardware and dedicated hardware. If embodied in dedicated hardware each can be implemented as a circuit or state machine that employs any one of or a combination of a number of technologies. These technologies may include but are not limited to discrete logic circuits having logic gates for implementing various logic functions upon an application of one or more data signals application specific integrated circuits having appropriate logic gates or other components etc. Such technologies are generally well known by those skilled in the art and consequently are not described in detail herein.

The flowchart of shows the functionality and operation of an implementation of portions of the golfing logic . If embodied in software each block may represent a module segment or portion of code that comprises program instructions to implement the specified logical function s . The program instructions may be embodied in the form of source code that comprises human readable statements written in a programming language or machine code that comprises numerical instructions recognizable by a suitable execution system such as a processor in a user device or mobile device. The machine code may be converted from the source code etc. If embodied in hardware each block may represent a circuit or a number of interconnected circuits to implement the specified logical function s .

Although the flowchart of shows a specific order of execution it is understood that the order of execution may differ from that which is depicted. For example the order of execution of two or more blocks may be scrambled relative to the order shown. Also two or more blocks shown in succession in may be executed concurrently or with partial concurrence. Further in some embodiments one or more of the blocks shown in may be skipped or omitted. In addition any number of counters state variables warning semaphores or messages might be added to the logical flow described herein for purposes of enhanced utility accounting performance measurement or providing troubleshooting aids etc. It is understood that all such variations are within the scope of the present disclosure.

Also any logic or application described herein including golfing logic that comprises software or code can be embodied in any non transitory computer readable medium for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system such as for example a processor in a computer system user device mobile device or other system. In this sense the logic may comprise for example statements including instructions and declarations that can be fetched from the computer readable medium and executed by the instruction execution system. In the context of the present disclosure a computer readable medium can be any medium that can contain store or maintain the logic or application described herein for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system. The computer readable medium can comprise any one of many physical media such as for example magnetic optical or semiconductor media. More specific examples of a suitable computer readable medium would include but are not limited to magnetic tapes magnetic floppy diskettes magnetic hard drives memory cards solid state drives USB flash drives or optical discs. Also the computer readable medium may be a random access memory RAM including for example static random access memory SRAM and dynamic random access memory DRAM or magnetic random access memory MRAM . In addition the computer readable medium may be a read only memory ROM a programmable read only memory PROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM or other type of memory device.

It should be emphasized that the above described embodiments of the present disclosure are merely possible examples of implementations set forth for a clear understanding of the principles of the disclosure. Many variations and modifications may be made to the above described embodiment s without departing substantially from the spirit and principles of the disclosure. All such modifications and variations are intended to be included herein within the scope of this disclosure and protected by the following claims.

