---

title: Managing session information in a wireless communications system
abstract: In an embodiment, a network communication entity (NCE) determines that an access terminal has re-entered a serving area of an access network, and also determines whether a given period of time, associated with a previous session of the access terminal in the serving area, has expired. If the NCE determines no expiration, the NCE re-activates session information associated with the previous session, including re-activation of an identifier that uniquely identifies the access terminal within the serving area. If the access terminal had a session in another serving area before re-entering the serving area, the NCE stores the session information for the access terminal in the other serving area in association with a period of time indicative of a duration during which the session information continues to be valid within the other serving area. The NCE may either correspond to the access terminal or a portion of the access network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08412188&OS=08412188&RS=08412188
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08412188
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100127
---
Embodiments of the invention are directed to managing session information in a wireless communications system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communication network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a given cell etc. similar to a broadcast.

Broadcasts and or multicasts may be performed within wireless communication systems in a number of ways such as performing a plurality of sequential unicast operations to accommodate the multicast group allocating a unique broadcast multicast channel BCH for handling multiple data transmissions at the same time and the like. A conventional system using a broadcast channel for push to talk communications is described in United States Patent Application Publication No. 2007 0049314 dated Mar. 1 2007 and entitled Push To Talk Group Call System Using CDMA 1x EVDO Cellular Network the contents of which are incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. As described in Publication No. 2007 0049314 a broadcast channel can be used for push to talk calls using conventional signaling techniques. Although the use of a broadcast channel may improve bandwidth requirements over conventional unicast techniques the conventional signaling of the broadcast channel can still result in additional overhead and or delay and may degrade system performance.

The 3Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 defines a broadcast multicast service BCMCS specification for supporting multicast communications in CDMA2000 networks. Accordingly a version of 3GPP2 s BCMCS specification entitled CDMA2000 High Rate Broadcast Multicast Packet Data Air Interface Specification dated Feb. 14 2006 Version 1.0 C.S0054 A is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

In an embodiment a network communication entity NCE determines that an access terminal has re entered a serving area of an access network and also determines whether a given period of time associated with a previous session of the access terminal in the serving area has expired. If the NCE determines no expiration the NCE re activates session information associated with the previous session including re activation of an identifier that uniquely identifies the access terminal within the serving area. If the access terminal had a session in another serving area before re entering the serving area the NCE stores the session information for the access terminal in the other serving area in association with a period of time indicative of a duration during which the session information continues to be valid within the other serving area. The NCE may either correspond to the access terminal or a portion of the access network.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN will be described in greater detail below. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A10 connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA10 connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA10 connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more access terminals .

Referring to ATs and . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell phones AT is illustrated as a wireless tablet PC and AT is illustrated as a wired desktop station. However in other embodiments it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system can connect to any type of AT and the examples illustrated in are not intended to limit the types of ATs that may be implemented within the system. Also while the AAA the provisioning server the IMS SIP registration server and the application server are each illustrated as structurally separate servers one or more of these servers may be consolidated in at least one embodiment of the invention.

Further referring to the application server is illustrated as including a plurality of media control complexes MCCs . . . N B and a plurality of regional dispatchers . . . N A. Collectively the regional dispatchers A and MCCs B are included within the application server which in at least one embodiment can correspond to a distributed network of servers that collectively functions to arbitrate communication sessions e.g. half duplex group communication sessions via IP unicasting and or IP multicasting protocols within the wireless communication system . For example because the communication sessions arbitrated by the application server can theoretically take place between ATs located anywhere within the system multiple regional dispatchers A and MCCs are distributed to reduce latency for the arbitrated communication sessions e.g. so that a MCC in North America is not relaying media back and forth between session participants located in China . Thus when reference is made to the application server it will be appreciated that the associated functionality can be enforced by one or more of the regional dispatchers A and or one or more of the MCCs B. The regional dispatchers A are generally responsible for any functionality related to establishing a communication session e.g. handling signaling messages between the ATs scheduling and or sending announce messages etc. whereas the MCCs B are responsible for hosting the communication session for the duration of the call instance including conducting an in call signaling and an actual exchange of media during an arbitrated communication session.

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Further as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art a given access terminal is typically required to identify itself to an access network before the access network will provision resources e.g. a traffic channel TCH QoS etc. to the given access terminal. For example in EV DO 1x the given access terminal may identify itself to the access terminal with a Unicast Access Terminal Identifier UATI . Accordingly the given access terminal will attach its UATI to reverse link messaging so that the access network is aware of the sender s identity. Likewise UATIs can be used in downlink messaging to identify an intended recipient or access terminal.

UATIs function to uniquely identify an AT only within a particular serving area e.g. a particular subnet sector cell etc. . Thus if the AT moves outside of the serving area e.g. the AT hands off to another cell another subnet etc. a new UATI is assigned to the AT. If the AT attempts to request resources e.g. QoS resources a TCH etc. from the access network in a serving area without a proper UATI e.g. by using the UATI from the old serving area etc. the access network will not grant the requested resources to the requesting AT e.g. at least until the request can be associated with a proper UATI .

Accordingly as will be described below with respect to a given AT conventionally sets up a session in a given serving area by acquiring session information e.g. a UATI and or obtain other session parameters specific to the given serving area such as a list of negotiated protocols and or QoS profiles that can be used by the given AT to send and or receive data in the given serving area e.g. in the event that the given AT desires to send reverse link data or in the event that the RAN has data to send to the AT on the downlink .

Referring to assume that a given AT is located in a first serving area e.g. a subnet that the given AT does not have a TCH is not currently participating in a communication session and that the given AT has a session established in the first serving area A. As mentioned above having a session e.g. a PPP session established means the given AT has obtained session information e.g. UATI 1 list of negotiated protocols QoS profiles etc. that can be used to send receive data between the given AT and the RAN in the first serving area. Referring to at A of the given AT may be located at position 1 within the first serving area.

Turning back to assume that the given AT leaves the first serving area and enters a second serving area A. For example referring to the given AT may travel from position 1 within the first serving area to position 2 within the second serving area.

In order to facilitate the given AT s handoff from the first serving area to the second serving area the given AT has to establish its session with the second serving area e.g. so that the given AT can be contacted in the second serving area so that the given AT can send data and be recognized in the second serving area so that the RAN is aware that the given AT is no longer in the first serving area etc . Accordingly the given AT sends a UATI request on a reverse link access channel to the RAN to request a UATI that can be used in the second serving area A.

After the RAN receives the UATI request the RAN acknowledges receipt of the UATI request from the given AT by sending an ACAck message to the given AT on the downlink control channel CC A. However while the RAN acknowledges the UATI request in A the RAN has not yet assigned the UATI for the second serving area to the given AT.

After the RAN receives the UATI request aside from ACKing the UATI request as in A the second serving area e.g. a RNC controlling a particular subnet which in this case is the target serving area for the handoff sends an A13 session information request to the first serving area e.g. again this can correspond to a RNC controlling a given subnet which in this case is the source serving area for the handoff A. The A13 session information request requests session information associated with the given AT s previous session in the first serving area. The first serving area responds to the A13 session information request with an A13 session information response providing the requested session information A. The second serving area ACKs the A13 session information response by sending an A13 session information confirm message back to the first serving area A.

After the first and second serving areas coordinate the given AT s handoff from the first serving area to the second serving area in A through A the second serving area assigns a UATI i.e. UATI 2 for the given AT to use in the second serving area by sending a UATI assignment on the downlink CC A. After receiving the UATI assignment the given AT updates one or more registers storing its UATI from the first serving area i.e. UATI 1 with the newly assigned UATI of the second serving area i.e. UATI 2 A. Similarly upon receiving the session information confirm message in A the first serving area also removes the session information that was associated with the given AT s previous session A. The given AT transmits a UATI complete message to the RAN on the reverse link access channel A.

Accordingly in A the given AT is now located in the second serving area e.g. at position 2 as shown in the given AT does not have a TCH is not currently participating in a communication session and the given AT has a session established in the second serving area. At some later point in time assume that the given AT leaves the second serving area and re enters the second serving area A. For example referring to the given AT may travel from position 2 within the second serving area to position 3 within the first serving area.

In order to facilitate the given AT s handoff from the second serving area to the first serving area the given AT has to re establish its session with the first serving area e.g. so that the given AT can again be contacted in the first serving area so that the given AT can again send data and be recognized in the first serving area so that the RAN is aware that the given AT is no longer in the second serving area etc . Accordingly blocks A through A generally correspond to blocks A through A as discussed above except blocks A through A show how the given AT hands off back to the first serving area and obtains UATI 3 whereas blocks A through A show how the given AT handed off to the second serving area and obtained UATI 2. Accordingly a further description of blocks A through A has been omitted for the sake of brevity. As will be appreciated upon entry into any new or previously visited serving area that has its own unique session information for each of its ATs the given AT is required to set up a session e.g. obtain a UATI for the serving area and or establish other session parameters before a TCH can be established in the new or previously visited serving area.

While is described whereby the given AT remains idle e.g. does not participate in an actual communication session at any point during the process of the RAN may have data to send to the given AT or the given AT may have data to send to the RAN e.g. if a user of the given AT requests call initiation etc. . Accordingly each illustrate examples of how the given AT can send reverse link data to the RAN after moving from the second serving area back to the first serving area in A.

Referring to the given AT leaves the first serving area and enters the second serving area A. For example referring to the given AT may travel from position 2 within the second serving area to position 3 within the first serving area. The given AT sends a UATI request on a reverse link access channel to the RAN to request a UATI that can be used in the first serving area A and the RAN acknowledges receipt of the UATI request from the given AT by sending an ACAck message to the given AT on the downlink control channel CC A.

At this point unlike where the given AT remains idle assume that the given AT determines to send data to the RAN in C. For example a user of the given AT can press a push to talk PTT button to request initiation of a PTT session the user can request to send a text message to check voicemails etc. In C the given AT sends a TCH request in the first serving area using its current UATI which is actually UATI 2 associated with the second serving area. Thus the given AT is using the wrong UATI at this point because the given AT has not yet been assigned a UATI to use for its current serving area. As such the first serving area ignores the TCH request in C.

After the RAN receives the UATI request aside from ACKing the UATI request as in A the first serving area sends an A13 session information request to the second serving area A receives an A13 session information response providing the request session information A and sends an A13 session information confirm message to the second serving area A.

After the first and second serving areas coordinate the given AT s handoff from the second serving area back to the first serving area in A through A the first serving area assigns a UATI i.e. UATI 3 for the given AT to use in the first serving area by sending a UATI assignment on the downlink CC A. After receiving the UATI assignment the given AT updates one or more registers storing its UATI from the second serving area i.e. UATI 2 with the newly assigned UATI of the first serving area i.e. UATI 1 A. Similarly upon receiving the session information confirm message in A the second serving area also removes the session information that was associated with the given AT s previous session A. The given AT transmits a UATI complete message to the RAN on the reverse link access channel A. At this point now that the given AT has a valid UATI for use in the first serving area the given AT can re send its TCH request in the first serving area with the valid UATI i.e. UATI 3 C.

Referring to the given AT leaves the first serving area and enters the second serving area A. For example referring to the given AT may travel from position 2 within the second serving area to position 3 within the first serving area. The given AT sends a UATI request on a reverse link access channel to the RAN to request a UATI that can be used in the first serving area A and the RAN acknowledges receipt of the UATI request from the given AT by sending an ACAck message to the given AT on the downlink control channel CC A.

At this point unlike where the given AT remains idle assume that the given AT determines to send data to the RAN in D. For example a user of the given AT can press a push to talk PTT button to request initiation of a PTT session the user can request to send a text message to check voicemails etc. In D instead of sending a preemptive TCH request with the wrong UATI i.e. the old UATI from the second serving area the given AT waits to receive a UATI for the first serving area before sending any TCH requests D.

Next A through A are executed as described above with respect to and or and a further description thereof has been omitted for the sake of brevity. After obtaining a valid UATI for use in the first serving area the given AT sends its TCH request in the first serving area with the valid UATI i.e. UATI 3 D.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art show that upon entry into a new or previously visited serving area e.g. a subnet an AT must wait to receive a UATI for its new or previously visited serving area before obtaining a TCH in the new or previously visited serving area. Even in cases where the given AT previously visited a serving area and once had a session established for that serving area this session information is not stored once the given AT hands off to another serving area. Accordingly if the given AT is near a boundary region between different serving areas the given AT can ping pong or quickly switch back and forth between the different serving areas. In this case the given AT will often find itself in a state where it is waiting for a UATI and or other session parameters during frequent serving area handoffs. Thus as the given AT will have to establish a new session each time it switches serving areas a user of the given AT could experience delays in setting up a TCH for a communication session.

Accordingly embodiments of the invention are directed to maintaining for at least a threshold period of time old session information at both a portion of the RAN controlling a previously entered serving area e.g. such as an RNC controlling a subnet that the given AT has exited and the given AT as the given AT moves between different serving areas of a wireless communications system. As described below in more detail in the event that the given AT moves back to a previously entered serving area before the threshold period of time elapses the given AT can and re activate its stored UATI and send data using its re activated UATI without waiting for a new UATI assignment in the previously entered serving area.

Referring to assume that a given AT is located in a first serving area e.g. a subnet that the given AT does not have a TCH and is not currently participating in a communication session and that the given AT has a session established in the first serving area A. As mentioned above having a session established means the given AT has obtained session information e.g. UATI 1 etc. that can be used to send receive data between the given AT and the RAN in the first serving area. Referring to at A of the given AT may be located at position 1 within the first serving area in an example.

Turning back to assume that the given AT leaves the first serving area and enters a second serving area A. For example referring to the given AT may travel from position 1 within the first serving area to position 2 within the second serving area. In the example of it may further be assumed that this is either the given AT s first time entering the second serving area or alternatively that it has been a relatively long time since the given AT s last entry into the second serving area. As will be described in more detail below a relatively long time in this case corresponds to a period that is longer that a time period for which the second serving area is expected to maintain session information from the given AT s previous session in the second serving area.

Accordingly because the given AT does not yet have session information that can be used in the second serving area e.g. either because it has never before been to the second serving area or no longer has valid session information that is useable in the second serving area for reviving an old session the given AT initiates a procedure to establish a session in the second serving area and acquire session information such as UATI 2 and or other session parameters.

Accordingly the given AT sends a UATI request on a reverse link access channel to the RAN to request a UATI that can be used in the second serving area A. After the RAN receives the UATI request the RAN acknowledges receipt of the UATI request from the given AT by sending an ACAck message to the given AT on the downlink control channel CC A. However while the RAN acknowledges the UATI request in A the RAN has not yet assigned the UATI for the second serving area to the given AT.

After the RAN receives the UATI request aside from ACKing the UATI request as in A the second serving area e.g. a RNC controlling a particular subnet which in this case is the target serving area for the handoff sends an A13 session information request to the first serving area e.g. again this can correspond to a RNC controlling a given subnet which in this case is the source serving area for the handoff A. The first serving area responds to the A13 session information request with an A13 session information response providing the requested session information A. The second serving area ACKs the A13 session information response by sending an A13 session information confirm message back to the first serving area A.

After the first and second serving areas coordinate the given AT s handoff from the first serving area to the second serving area in A through A the second serving area assigns a UATI i.e. UATI 2 for the given AT to use in the second serving area by sending a UATI assignment on the downlink CC A. In at least one embodiment of the invention the UATI assignment message in A can further be configured to indicate to the given AT a given time period for which the given AT s old session information for the given AT s previous session in the first serving area will remain valid in the event that the given AT returns to the first serving area. This embodiment is described in more detail below with respect to .

Of course the UATI assignment message need not be the only way in which the given time period can be indicated to the given AT. In an alternative example the time period can be a part of the session information which is exchanged between the AT and the RAN during the initial session establishment. In an alternative example a proprietary message can be exchanged between the given AT and the RAN to inform the given AT of the given time period of validity for the given AT s previous session information. In another alternative example the given AT can assume that the old session information will remain valid for a default period of time from the handoff to the second serving area without an explicit indication of the period of time from the RAN . Accordingly in view of the different manners by which the given AT and the RAN can negotiate the duration during which old session information is retained is described herein with the assumption that one way or the other both the RAN and the given AT are both aware of the validity duration or given period of time during which session information for previous sessions of the given AT are stored.

After receiving the UATI assignment the given AT updates one or more registers storing its UATI from the first serving area i.e. UATI 1 with the newly assigned UATI of the second serving area i.e. UATI 2 A. Also instead of removing the UATI from the first serving area and or other session parameters the given AT stores or cache the session information for its previous session in the first serving area in association with a given time period during which the session information is expected to remain available for use in the event that the given AT returns to the first serving area. Similarly upon receiving the session information confirm message in A the first serving area also stores or caches the session information that was associated with the given AT s previous session with the same given time period A. The given AT transmits a UATI complete message to the RAN on the reverse link access channel A.

Accordingly in A the given AT is now located in the second serving area e.g. at position 2 as shown in the given AT does not have a TCH is not currently participating in a communication session and the given AT has a session established in the second serving area. Further while the given AT does not have an active session established in the first serving area the given AT has retained the session information for the first serving area which can be used within the given period of time in the event that the given AT returns to the first serving area.

At this point during the process of both the given AT and the RAN monitor the given period of time to determine whether the given period of time has elapsed and in the event that the given period of time has elapsed without the given AT returning to the first serving area both the given AT and the first serving area e.g. or an RNC controlling the first serving area remove the session information related to the given AT s previous session in the first serving area A and A. Accordingly A and A each correspond to conditional steps that occur in the event of an expiration of the session information from the given AT s previous session in the first serving area.

At some later point in time assume that the given AT leaves the second serving area and re enters the second serving area A. For example referring to the given AT may travel from position 2 within the second serving area to position 3 within the first serving area.

Upon determining that the given AT has re entered the first serving area the given AT determines whether the given period of time for which the session information is expected to be valid for use in the first serving area has expired or elapsed A. If the given period of time is determined to have expired the process advances to A which is described in more detail below.

Otherwise if the given period of time is determined not to have expired the given AT reactivates the stored session information for the first serving area A. In other words the given AT updates one or more registers storing its UATI from the second serving area i.e. UATI 2 with the stored UATI of the first serving area i.e. UATI 1 . Accordingly at this point while not shown explicitly in the given AT is capable of sending data on the reverse link to the RAN in the first serving area e.g. to request a TCH etc. without waiting for a UATI assignment message because the given AT knows it can use its old stored UATI from its previous session. Therefore as will be described in greater detail below with respect to the given AT is capable of sending data to the RAN more quickly as compared to conventional whereby the given AT waits until after the UATI assignment before sending a data transmission that will be acknowledged and recognized by its current serving area.

In A the given AT sends a location update to the RAN in the first serving area to notify the first serving area of the given AT s presence therein. In an example if A occurs after an evaluation that the given time period elapsed in A the location update corresponds to a UATI request message that is sent before any successful data transmission from the given AT. In other words the expiration of the given time period for the first serving area s session information of the given AT means that the given AT has to first acquire a valid UATI and or other session parameters before sending data. However if A occurs after an evaluation that the given time period did not elapse in A the location update of A can occur after a data transmission. In other words so long as the location update is sent before the given time period expires the first serving area will keep the given AT s session information reserved such that the location update need not be sent immediately upon the given AT s re entry into the first serving area.

Upon receiving the location update which in the example of corresponds to a UATI request message the RAN re activates the stored session information from the AT s previous session in the first serving area so long as the given time period has not expired A. The portion of the RAN controlling the first serving area also acknowledges receipt of the UATI request from the given AT by sending an ACAck message to the given AT on the downlink control channel CC A sends an A13 session information request to the second serving area A receives an A13 session information response providing the requested session information A and ACKs the A13 session information response by sending an A13 session information confirm message back to the second serving area A. At this point the RAN in the first serving area sends a UATI assignment message to confirm to the given AT that its UATI i.e. UATI 1 is still valid for use within the first serving area A. Also as will be described in more detail below with respect to the UATI assignment message can also be configured to indicate to the given AT the given time period during which the session information for the given AT s previous session in the second serving area will remain valid in the event that the given AT returns to the second serving area.

Accordingly in A instead of removing the UATI from the second serving area and or other session parameters the given AT stores the session information for its previous session in the second serving area in association with a given time period during which the session information is expected to remain available for use in the event that the given AT returns to the second serving area. Similarly upon receiving the session information confirm message in A the RAN in the second serving area also stores the session information that was associated with the given AT s previous session with the same given time period A. The given AT transmits a UATI complete message to the RAN on the reverse link access channel A.

In an alternative embodiment while not shown explicitly in if the given AT reactivates the stored session information from the previous session in the first serving area in A it is possible that the given AT can send data using the reactivated session information before the location update or UATI Request is sent in A. In this case it will be appreciated that because the given AT does not necessarily require a new UATI for transmitting its data the UATI Request of A need not be sent. Rather the data transmission from the given AT can function as the location update which will be interpreted by the RAN as if the UATI request of A were sent. Accordingly in this alternative embodiment the location update of A that is shown as a UATI request can be replaced by a data transmission with A through A being performed as when the location update corresponded to a UATI request. In yet another alternative embodiment even if data is sent between A and A the UATI request may still be sent in A. While potentially increasing traffic over the reverse link wireless channel automatically sending the location update as a UATI request may result in a cleaner or simpler implementation. The particular implementation may thereby vary based on the preferences of a particular vendor.

While is described whereby the given AT remains idle e.g. does not participate in an actual communication session at any point during the process of the RAN may have data to send to the given AT or the given AT may have data to send to the RAN e.g. if a user of the given AT requests call initiation etc. . Accordingly illustrates an example of how the given AT can send reverse link data to the RAN after moving from the second serving area back to the first serving area in A.

Referring to A through A correspond to their like numbered blocks from and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity except that it will be assumed in that the given time period has not elapsed in A. Accordingly after A the given AT is at position 2 within the first serving area as shown in and has re activated its session information e.g. UATI 1 for use within the first serving area. In A unlike where the given AT remains idle assume that the given AT determines to send data to the RAN in B. For example a user of the given AT can press a push to talk PTT button to request initiation of a PTT session the user can request to send a text message to check voicemails etc. In B the given AT sends a TCH request in the first serving area using its re activated UATI i.e. UATI 1 . The RAN in the first serving area receives the TCH request and re activates the stored session information from the given AT s previous session in the first serving area B e.g. similar to A of . It will be appreciated that B in is responsive to the TCH request instead of the location update as in A of because the TCH request with the UATI 1 attached is received before the location update.

Next the RAN determines that the attached UATI identifying the given AT is valid in the first serving area and thereby grants the TCH request B. Accordingly the given AT obtains its TCH without having to wait for a UATI assignment message or indeed does not even have to wait to send its UATI request before sending its TCH request e.g. or other data transmission . While not shown the given AT can thereafter communicate over the TCH obtained in B in an active communication session.

At some later point in time the given AT sends a location update to the RAN in the first serving area to trigger the session transfer between the first and second serving areas A. As will be appreciated the location update of A is not strictly necessary in all implementations. For example a data packet transmission between B and A of may function to update the given AT s location and can trigger blocks A through A of . However sending a separate location update as shown in A of can facilitate a cleaner or simpler protocol for implementation in the sense that an evaluation of whether data was sent after block B need not be performed. Blocks A through A correspond to their like numbered blocks from and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity.

Referring to assume that A through A are executed as described above in . In C the RAN determines the given time period that the first serving area will store the given AT s session information in the first serving area. In an example the given time period can correspond to a fixed predetermined time period e.g. 30 minutes etc. that begins at a given point in time e.g. upon transmission or receipt of the A13 session information confirm message in A upon receive of the UATI request in A etc. . Alternatively the given time period can be adaptive and based on a history of behavior associated with the given AT. For example if the given AT is leaving a serving area that is far away from the given AT s usual locations of use and the given AT has never before been to the serving area being exited the given time period may be relatively short e.g. because unless the given AT is hovering around the boundary region of the serving area in which case the given AT would move back to the serving area in a short period of time the given AT would not be considered very likely to return to the serving area so storing its session information indefinitely would not be likely to be useful . In another example if the given AT has been to the serving area being exited many times before e.g. the serving area covers the given AT s user s workplace home gym etc. the given time period may be relatively long. It is even possible for the given time period to be indefinite or infinite in an example. Thus the given AT s session information could effectively be permanent in at least one embodiment of the invention. For example if the given AT is only used as a home phone and is never removed from the given AT s user s house then the given AT s session information or that serving area could be made permanent such that data could be sent immediately upon power up without a UATI request and UATI assignment being sent first.

After determining the given time period in C the RAN in the second serving area configures the UATI assignment message to assign a UATI for use in the second serving area e.g. UATI 2 and also configures the UATI assignment message to indicate the given time period determined in C which indicates the duration of time that UATI 1 and or other system parameters for the given AT s old session in the first serving area will remain valid C. The RAN then transmits the configured UATI assignment message to the given AT on the downlink CC C after which A through A correspond to their like numbered blocks from and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity.

Referring to assume that A through A are executed as described above in . In D the RAN determines the given time period that the second serving area will store the given AT s session information in the second serving area. In an example the determination of D could be performed in accordance with any of the examples described above with respect to C.

After determining the given time period in D the RAN in the first serving area configures the UATI assignment message to confirm that the given AT s session information e.g. UATI 1 is still valid for use in the first serving area and also configures the UATI assignment message to indicate the given time period determined in D which indicates the duration of time that UATI 2 and or other system parameters for the given AT s old session in the second serving area will remain valid C. The RAN then transmits the configured UATI assignment message to the given AT on the downlink CC D after which A through A correspond to their like numbered blocks from FIG. A and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

