---

title: System for particle concentration and detection
abstract: A new microfluidic system comprising an automated prototype insulator-based dielectrophoresis (iDEP) triggering microfluidic device for pathogen monitoring that can eventually be run outside the laboratory in a real world environment has been used to demonstrate the feasibility of automated trapping and detection of particles. The system broadly comprised an aerosol collector for collecting air-borne particles, an iDEP chip within which to temporarily trap the collected particles and a laser and fluorescence detector with which to induce a fluorescence signal and detect a change in that signal as particles are trapped within the iDEP chip.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08398839&OS=08398839&RS=08398839
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08398839
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100603
---
This application claims priority to prior U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 184 334 originally filed Jun. 5 2009 entitled System for Particle Concentration and Detection from which benefit is claimed.

The United States Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of contract No. DE AC04 94AL85000 awarded by the U.S. Department of Energy to Sandia Corporation.

There is a need for a low cost fast response low detection limit low false alarm rate bio aerosol early warning system for use in governmental and commercial infrastructure protection initiatives. Unfortunately current individual technological approaches to bio detection often must make trade offs among cost speed of response sensitivity and accuracy. For instance the gold standard for pathogen identification the polymerase chain reaction PCR bioassay is very accurate but requires expensive biochemicals. On the other hand low cost to operate aerosol sample collectors coupled with real time non selective light scattering detectors yield an unacceptable number of false alarms.

A potentially revolutionary solution to this problem is the coupling or integration of two or more low cost orthogonal sensor triggers together with a very accurate bioassay. One example of such a sensor trigger are fast aerosol light scattering detectors. By themselves light scattering detectors produce many false positive signals. However when coupled to a second orthogonal trigger the likelihood that the two sensors produce false positive signals at the same time is acceptably small. Furthermore since the bioassay need be run only in those occasions when the multiple orthogonal sensor triggers produce a positive signal the costs to operate the systems are greatly reduced while maintaining a high degree of accuracy. Moreover additional reductions in cost may be achieved by miniaturizing the triggering and bioassay devices such that smaller amounts of reagents are consumed together with a corresponding reduction in waste produced waste. A large laboratory based research effort based on microfluidic insulator based dielectrophoresis iDEP at our facilities over the past 7 years has shown that iDEP is capable of trapping and differentiating different types of bioparticles live vs. dead bacteria spores vs. vegetative cells under low flow conditions. We have applied this experience to the development and laboratory testing of a prototype iDEP triggering device.

To accomplish our objective we have applied experience in developing microfluidics and iDEP technology at our facilities and described and disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 7 347 923 7 204 923 and 7 014 747 herein incorporated by reference in their entirety. Additionally iDEP technology is further disclosed by Lapizco Encinas et al. in Dielectrophoretic concentration and separation of live and dead bacteria in an array of insulators 2004 v. 76 6 pp. 1571 1579 in Insulator based dielectrophoresis for the selective concentration and separation of live bacteria in water Electrophoresis 2004 v. 25 10 11 p. 1695 1704 and in An insulator based electrodeless dielectrophoretic concentrator for microbes in water 2005 v. 62 3 SI pp. 317 326 and by Simmons et al. in Polymeric insulator based electrodeless dielectrophoresis iDEP for the monitoring of water borne pathogen 2005 iss. 297 pp. 171 173 by Davalos et al. in Performance impact of dynamic surface coatings on polymeric insulator based dielectrophoretic particle separators 2008 v. 390 3 pp. 847 855 and by Sabounchi et al. in Sample concentration and impedance detection on a microfluidic polymer chip 2008 v. 10 5 pp. 661 670 all herein incorporated by reference. Ancillary microfluidic components valves fittings pumps etc and the high flow plastic microfluidic devices needed for this project were also previously developed at our facilities.

The present system comprises a smart system for unattended particle collection capability that would include the capability to autonomously trigger a subsequent analysis for microchemical biological species. The device further includes a compact efficient aqueous sample collector an insulator based dielectrophoretic iDEP device for particle concentration and trapping and a laser induced fluorescence detection device to trigger an electronic response in the device to direct the instrument to begin a more detailed analysis of the trapped particles using a complimentary microanalysis system for fast accurate presumptive identification. Also included is a sample cleanup capability to flush the microfluidic chip of collected debris and thereby provide for re use of the chip.

This device will classify particles collected from the surrounding atmosphere by first screening the particles to accept only those within a specific size range of diameters and secondly by accepting only those particles that have been trapped in dielectrophoretic fields having specific predetermined voltage potentials such that the device triggers the use of a downstream bio identification assay. Should this instrument trigger not signal a positive result no further analysis is performed.

In iDEP systems of our design electrodes located outside the microfluidic chip apply an electric field across the main fluidic channel. Insulating posts and other features in the chip cause non uniformities in the electric field and any particle traveling in a fluid inside the chip experiences dielectrophoretic forces and these forces can be used to trap concentrate and separate particles such as spores cells or viruses under low flow conditions.

Fluidics to transport fluid from an aerosol sample collector through the iDEP chip through the detector and out to the waste bottle. The fluidic system also allows the introduction of particles from a separate sample vial into the fluid that comes out of the aerosol sample collector.

Electronics to control and monitor the aerosol sample collector valves pumps particle detector and pressure sensors.

Particle detector for providing an indication of whether or not particles have been trapped by the iDEP chip.

Packaging an enclosure to protect the instrument that allows for air to be processed by the aerosol sample collector.

An important lesson learned during development of the iDEP system was that since the system was used to trap and manipulate particles clogging of the tubes carrying particle suspension in and out of the iDEP chip by the particles was an issue. It was eventually decided that very small capillary tubing e.g. plastic capillary tubing that is 360 m outside diameter O.D. 175 m inside diameter I.D. should only be used in an iDEP system when it was absolutely necessary to minimize both time to travel a certain length and particle dispersion. Thus shows that 1 16 O.D. tubing with 750 m I.D. was used to bring particles from either the aerosol collector or a separate sample vial into the iDEP chip. 360 m O.D. plastic capillary was used to connect the outlet of the iDEP chip to the off chip detector because in this leg of the microfluidic circuit it was desired to minimize the time it took for the particles to flow from the chip to the detector and because the smaller I.D. reduced particle dispersion. Furthermore misalignment of the chip holder assembly and the fluidic manifold plate frequently resulted in restricted flow. The observed misalignment was minimized by adding alignment pins to the chip holder manifold coupling shown in .

As shown in an experiment will start by collecting an air sample using a BIOXC 200GX aerosol collector available from ICX Mesosystems Albuquerque N. Mex. . The BIOXC 200GX is configured to pull through several liters of ambient air and deposit particles found in the air that are within a size range that can enter human lungs during respiration about 0.5 m to about 10 m into a preset volume of water typically a one milliliter mL volume . The water used to collect the particles is de ionized water mixed with 0.001 to 0.01 v v TWEEN a non ionic surfactant that helps prevent fouling of the aerosol collector surfaces. The fluidic system would then use a syringe pump to withdraw the water sample from the aerosol collector and inject it into the inlet electrode of the chip holder. An alternate fluidic path was added to the system to allow for the wet introduction of particles from a sample vial into the liquid coming out of the aerosol collector. This alternate fluidic path allows spiking of an aerosol sample without aerosolizing the spiking particles a system feature needed to conduct tests at sites where aerosolizing particles is not allowed. During laboratory tests the particles being trapped are withdrawn with the syringe pump from the sample vial and are then injected into the inlet electrode.

A commercial USB capable compact DAQ cDAQ system obtained from National Instruments Corporation Austin Tex. was used as the main data collection and control interface. This modular system allowed specific modules to be easily installed and configured through LABVIEW . The cDAQ performs all of the required digital input and output functions as well as 16 bit analog I O. The digital output is capable of controlling eight 3 way fluidic valves. Valve control requires that a custom interface box be made which incorporates H bridge driver circuitry i.e. an electronic circuit which enables a voltage to be applied across a load in either direction. These circuits are often used to operate a DC motor in both the forwards and backwards direction. Analog signal feedback provides valve status. In addition the cDAQ monitors sensors and control system components. A control diagram of the system is shown in . A USB to serial expander unit was installed to communicate with the pump controllers high voltage power supply video microscope cDAQ conductivity detector and the BIOXC 200GX aerosol sample collector. Two commercial DC power supplies were installed to supply the required power for all components and minimize the footprint by eliminating multiple redundant units.

A new LABVIEW based control software for the National Instruments cDAQ system described above was created and is illustrated in representative screen shots shown in . The new control software allows the user to manually control all aspects of the system and to run user written programs to execute specific control sequences. During a programmed control sequence twenty six channels of data are collected at a rate of up to 30 Hertz and saved to a file for later processing. A laptop computer is used for hardware control and connects to the system via a single USB cable.

Capillary based impedance detector This was carried out using a Capacitively Coupled Contactless Conductivity Detection instrument C4D manufactured by eDAQ Australia www.eDAQ.com . In the C4D instrument a glass capillary tube carrying the sample out of the iDEP chip is passed through two annular electrodes separated by a ground plane . One electrode provides a source AC signal while the second detects the signal that is coupled through the capillary tubing and solution. The amplified output is then sent to the National Instruments cDAQ and is recorded by the LABVIEW based control program.

Through capillary absorbance spectrometer A UV visible light single wavelength spectrometer Thermo Finnigan was incorporated into the iDEP system and the fluorescence signal was recorded by the LABVIEW based control program . The spectrometer has an absorbance cell that sends monochromatic light through a glass capillary that carries the fluid out of the iDEP chip.

On chip fluorescence spectrometry An SVM340 portable microscope LABSMITH shown in was incorporated into the lab based iDEP system shown in and used for routine recording of fluorescence images during trapping and to analyze the fluorescence images quantitatively. The fluorescence data was recorded by the control laptop as the trapping experiments were run.

Off chip capillary based based fluorescence spectrometer A Sandia designed custom off chip modular capillary based laser induced fluorescence LIF spectrometer such are disclosed in commonly owned U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 998 598 and 7 452 507 herein incorporated by reference is shown in and was incorporated into the system as shown in system mock up . The modular concept provides for the use of a wide variety of components to fit particular needs. For example almost any light source that can cause molecules to fluoresce either naturally or tagged with a fluorophore can be used in this system. Potential light sources that can be used in the optical detector system can include those that emit light from the infrared to the ultraviolet. These include but are not limited to light emitting diodes LEDs laser diodes vertical cavity surface emitting lasers VECSELs vertical external cavity surface emitting lasers VECSELs dipole pumped solid state DPSS lasers or fiber optic connections that are subsequently coupled to light sources such as large laser systems laser diodes or lamps. Moreover optical system for detection means can include photomultiplier tubes photodiodes avalanche photodiodes or array detectors such as photodiode arrays and intensified charge coupled devices ICCD or photosensitive detectors. These detection means can be run in analog signal collection mode phase locked or photon counting mode. LIF detectors have been used for many years both in the lab and in the field at various locations and have been developed to be miniature rugged and consume little power. These detectors have been used with a variety of excitation wavelengths to fluoresce biological pathogens.

The system was ruggedized for transport and final integration and testing at both the lab and at the public venue. Brackets were fabricated to secure all components firmly to the base plate. The entire system will fit in a compact 19.5 20 11 enclosure. The system requires one standard 120V 15 A outlet for power. The finished Field Test Unit is shown in .

The iDEP chips shown schematically in were manufactured by injection molding. Briefly fabrication of polymer microfluidic devices involves the creation of a master etched in silicon or glass plating of the master to produce a nickel stamp large lot replication of the microfluidic substrate by injection molding and precision sealing of the substrate against a drilled ZEONOR plaque lid. The chips contain plastic posts in a 30 m deep channel as shown as photomicrographs in .

It was found that when first produced the iDEP chips did not comprise a surface chemistry that would prevent or at least minimize particles from clogging and fouling the fluid channel as seen in . It was also found that these chips were unable to trap particles as illustrated in . The channel therefore did not provide for efficient particle trapping and it was necessary to treat the interior surfaces of the iDEP chip with an aqueous solution comprised of deionized water 10 vol. methoxy polyethylene glycol acrylate MOPA obtained from the Sartomer Corporation as part number CD 551 1 mM of sodium periodate NaIO and 0.5 vol. benzyl alcohol CHCHOH . The workpiece is immersed in the above solution and exposed to a source of 365 nm UV light for about 60 minutes. The source of UV light is again provided by a SPECTROLINKER XL 1500 operating at 365 nm available from the Spectronics Corporation Westbury N.Y. . The MOPA treatment provides for hydroxyl functional groups attached to the surfaces of the chip and lowers the contact angle of the plastic substrate to 65 4 versus 90 2 without MOPA treatment.

It has also been necessary to adjust the pH of the background buffer to pH8 while simultaneously keeping its conductivity low. Trapping has been demonstrated with 0.001 TWEEN 20 a polyoxyethylene derivative of sorbitan monolaurate obtained from the Promega Corporation Madison Wis. . Other TWEEN compositions may be possible but were not attempted. It would be expected that a different surfactant concentration would be needed if other TWEEN compositions were used. It is important to demonstrate trapping in the presence of TWEEN 20 as this is the additive present in the water used by the aerosol sample collector. TWEEN 20 prevents fouling of the aerosol sample collector components and increases the collection efficiency of the aerosol sample collector. In addition TWEEN 20 containing water solutions are used to flush out and clean the iDEP chips between runs.

The inlet and outlet electrodes shown in each comprised a 1.25 inch long 1 mm O.D. 0.75 mm I.D. AISI Type 316 austenitic stainless steel tube. The cross section of these electrodes was large when compared to the cross section of the capillary tubing used throughout most of the remainder of the iDEP system.

The optimal way to introduce the sample into the iDEP chip was empirically determined as shown in . The initial approach shown in called for injecting the buffer at 1 to 10 L minute into the ground inlet electrode port while the sample was injected at 1 to 3 microliters per minute through the non energized inlet port. Part of the fluid flow was extracted through the non energized outlet port and was routed through the off chip detector while the bulk of the fluid flow came out of the negatively biased outlet electrode port and went to the waste bottle. No trapping was seen with this approach.

After further experimentation and modifications to the fluidic architecture some trapping was achieved by first injecting the sample 50 L minute 200 L total volume and then the buffer 3 tit minute through the ground inlet electrode port and flowing all of the fluid out through the non energized outlet port see .

In the final successful configuration see both reliable trapping and off chip detection were finally achieved by first injecting the sample and then the buffer through the ground inlet electrode port and flowing all of the fluid out through a reduced volume negatively biased outlet electrode port and routing that fluid through the detector. The reduced volume negatively biased electrode was necessary because the original outlet electrode was too large and fluid took about an hour to flow out and into the detector. The reduced volume outlet electrode was constructed from a one inch long 360 m O.D. 175 m I.D. AISI Type 316 stainless steel capillary tubing section. The cross section of this electrode was thus the same as the cross section of the capillaries used throughout the system and the delay in fluid flow out of the chip was vastly minimized.

When in use the background buffer also pH8 DI water with 0.001 TWEEN v v was flowed through the inlet electrode and through the rest of the system for about a minute at 3 L minute using a stepper motor microprocessor controlled pump such as a MILLIGAT pump available from Global FIA Inc. Fox Island Wash. USA comprising a miniature pump motor gear assembly a micro electric controller and a linear power supply. In order to begin trapping particles a portion of the fluid sample generated by the aerosol collector is introduced into the fluid stream and thus into the fluid pump where it is directed into the iDEP chip. The voltage at the inlet electrode of the iDEP chip is initially set to Ground done to avoid the leakage of voltage upstream to the metal MILLIGAT pump and the outlet electrode set to a predetermined negative potential e.g. 1600 V. The range of voltage potentials necessary to trap any specific particle species e.g. pathogenic spores or bacteria would need to be determined experimentally since presumably the optimal trapping potential for each would be different. Initially the system would be set up to investigate voltage ranges which were most effective at trapping particles of interest e.g. pathogens and the like. In actual use therefore the device potentials would be preset to scan specific ranges of voltage in an either ascending or descending protocol and thereby incrementally step through the range of voltages found to be important for diagnostic inspection. At each level the voltages are held constant at the pre set values for 30 seconds in order to achieve particle trapping within the system assuming that particles having the targeted trapping characteristics are present within the sample. After the 30 seconds the trapping phase was completed and the voltages of both the inlet and outlet electrodes were set to Ground and the cycle begun again at an incremented potential.

In a typical trapping experiment 200 microliters of beads or of Bg spores 10particles ml suspended in pH8 deionized DI water with 0.001 TWEEN v v labeled with fluorescein isothiocyanate FITC were injected into the inlet electrode before any voltage was applied. show a series of fluorescence snapshots of video recorded through the fluorescence microscope during a typical trapping experiment. For 2 m diameter polymer beads flowing at 3 L minute the trapping started at about 1000 volts and was completed at 1600 volts. Trapping could be repeated five to ten times with a given chip before the chip had to be pressure washed with background buffer.

Finally in order to automate the detection and allow for unattended operation in the field four detector technologies were evaluated.

In doing so it was discovered that off chip capillary based impedance and absorbance detectors were affected by iDEP trapping related artifacts . We hypothesize that a large amount of ions are produced via electrolysis when the large trapping voltages are applied and these ions give large impedance and absorbance signals that completely mask the presence of trapped particles.

An inverted fluorescence video microscope a SVM340 microscope available from LABSMITH Inc. Livermore Calif. was used to analyze the fluorescence signal during and after experiments. The microscope software allows the user to optimize the signal to noise ratio of the fluorescence intensity analysis by drawing analysis areas on the computer microscope viewer. Only the fluorescence data in those areas are integrated over time. show the analysis areas and the fluorescence signal as a function of time for the trapped particles shown in .

The SVM340 based on chip fluorescence detection was not affected by iDEP artifacts. This technique senses the trapping and concentration of particles between the posts. Since the particles are trapped between the posts as soon as the voltage is turned on the detector responds within seconds of turning on the trapping voltage. Unfortunately the optics of the SVM340 detector are not sufficiently robust to interrogate the chip for particles that did not carry a fluorescent tag and while it is possible in principle to detect biological particles using native fluorescence such an approach would require a modifying the chip and chip holder to include a fiber optic conduit for directing the needed excitation light and for returning the excited fluorescent signal from the particles trapped within the chip and to provide for optical transparency above or below the chip s trapping region. This latter condition would likely require the chip and or chip cover to be fabricated from fused silica or quartz.

While the three foregoing detection techniques could not be adapted to provide unattended operation the system was successfully operated using an off chip laser induced fluorescence technique. show data collected during trapping and release of beads and Bg spores using the Sandia off chip LIF detector. In this method no redesign of the chip or chip holder was necessary to detect particles at various wavelengths. The technique operates as follows. As fluid is pumped through the system it continues through the iDEP chip and is then redirected through a capillary off chip and directed through a transparent capillary in the LIF instrument where suspended particles are illuminated by the LIF light source. The entrained particles are excited by the light source and emit a fluorescent signal either the result of native fluorescence or due to an attached fluorescent tag that can be detected by a photometer photomultiplier tube PMT contained within the LIF. This detected signal forms a background baseline signal.

It will be appreciated that as soon as the trapping voltage is turned on the fluorescence signal at the off chip detector first instantaneously increases before beginning to rapidly decrease. We hypothesize that the first response is due to the electrokinetic forces accelerating the particles near the detector due to the applied electric field and the second response is an indication of containment initiation of a majority of the particles contained in the fluid up stream in the iDEP chip. Trapping therefore is confirmed about a minute after the voltage to the electrodes in the iDEP chip is turned ON by a decrease in detected signal below an average background baseline level of the fluorescence signal count. The one minute delay in response is presumed to be caused by the time taken for the fluid to travel from the trapping region on the iDEP chip to the LIF sensor located about 2 inches away from the chip. That is after the trapping voltage is turned ON particles are immobilized within the post region of the iDEP chip while the fluid formerly containing the trapped particles continues moving eventually leading to a particle depleted region of fluid reaching the detector. A minute after the trapping voltage is turned OFF particles are once again detected as the fluorescence signal returns its average base line count rate detected before trapping.

Lastly we found that the off chip LIF detector was not capable of detecting an iDEP induced increase in the concentration of particles. It was only capable of detecting the trapping and the release of the particles. This is due mainly because as the concentrated particles are released they travel from the restricted fluid volume between the posts having a total cross section of about 6 000 mto the open channel having cross section of about 5 as great and then into the 150 m diameter capillary having a cross section of 17 670 m. Furthermore the Peclet number in the capillary decreases by a factor of 3 and so diffusive mixing is increased downstream as the particles travel approximately 60 millimeters 2 inches to the off chip fluorescence detector.

The iDEP system has been run repeatedly in the lab. iDEP chips can be reused to 10 times before fouling after which a simple high flow background buffer injection is used to clean and reset the chip. The packaging and assorted electronic and mechanical components that make up the system are robust and reliable. As currently configured the iDEP system can be operated for up to eight hours unattended before needing to be serviced.

Having thus described an exemplary embodiment of the present invention it should be noted by those skilled in the art that the disclosures herein are exemplary only and that various other alternatives adaptations and modifications may be made within the scope of the present invention. Accordingly the present invention is not limited to the specific embodiments as illustrated herein but is only limited by the following claims.

Finally to the extent necessary to understand or complete the disclosure of the present invention all publications patents and patent applications mentioned herein are expressly incorporated by reference therein to the same extent as though each were individually so incorporated.

