---

title: Hand-interface for weapon station
abstract: An ergonomic control instrument for an operator's hand is provided to be disposable on a platform and communicate with a processor. The instrument includes a base for mounting to the platform, a pistol-grip handle disposed on the base to tilt from perpendicular to the platform, a head unit disposed on the handle, a deck within the head unit connecting to the handle, and a plurality of input devices disposed on at least one of the head unit and the handle, each device of the plurality for receiving a command from the operator's hand. Also, an ergonomic control station for an operator is provided, with the station including a platform in front of the operator, a first hand-held instrument mountable to the platform, a second hand-held instrument mountable to the platform, and a processor having a plurality of connections to the first and second pluralities of input devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08754853&OS=08754853&RS=08754853
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08754853
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100929
---
The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to hand held control instruments and control stations. In particular the invention relates to ergonomic and modular instruments that can be configured for sundry operations while reducing operator fatigue.

Gun operators in military training or combat situations operate individual consoles to actuate their weapons from a control station. Conventional such stations must be custom configured for particular missions. Additionally attention demands for a variety of parameters to be controlled along with non optimal physiognomic configuration can induce operator fatigue.

Conventional hand held control instruments and associated control stations yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular various exemplary embodiments provide an ergonomic control instrument for an operator s hand to be disposable on a platform and communicate with a processor. The instrument includes a base for mounting to the platform a pistol grip handle disposed on the base to tilt from perpendicular to the platform a head unit disposed on the handle a deck within the head unit connecting to the handle and a plurality of input devices disposed on at least one of the head unit and the handle each device of the plurality for receiving a command from the operator s hand.

Additionally various exemplary embodiments provide an ergonomic control station for an operator with the station including a platform in front of the operator a first hand held instrument mountable to the platform a second hand held instrument mountable to the platform and a processor having a plurality of connections to the first and second pluralities of input devices.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

The configurable weapons control station benefits from 1 ergonomic disposition of hand held instruments and associated appendage i.e. thumb and finger actuation 2 component modularity for parts substitution or rearrangement and 3 configurability to facilitate additional or alternate commands to be incorporated in the instrument in support of alternate mission scenarios. Various exemplary embodiments separately address the control station with attendant processor and the hand held instrument that represents the controller mechanism to enable command input for the operator with reduced fatigue.

The operator s left hand and fingers wrap around to grip the port handle . The port base is configured to tilt the port handle from perpendicular to the platform towards starboard sloping inward towards the operator s torso to reduce operator fatigue. The operator can also operate a port trigger assembly with his or her left forefinger. The trigger assembly is suspended from the port head and includes a trigger a guard and a pressure switch within the handle . The base attaches to the handle from the fore by a screw .

A starboard pistol grip handle secures an internal deck by screws to support the starboard head and attaches to a base secured by a pair of bolts with accompanying nuts. The starboard base is configured to tilt the starboard handle from perpendicular to the platform towards port sloping inward towards the operator s torso to reduce operator fatigue. A coaxial cable connects to the base via a coaxial connector .

The operator can also actuate a starboard trigger assembly with the operator s right forefinger. The trigger assembly is suspended from the starboard head and includes a trigger a guard and a pressure switch within the handle . The base attaches to the handle from the fore by a screw . The operator s right hand and fingers wrap around to grip the starboard handle and pivotably secures an aft palm switch to activate a pressure switch .

The handle includes a grip stock having a top surface with a scallop for receiving the trigger assembly a hole for receiving a hinge screw a keyslot groove at the bottom with adjacent side holes for receiving the screws . The base includes a mount having a forward tongue and an aft tongue separated by a gap for inserting a bolt. The tongues and fit into the groove to connect the handle to the base . Screws secure the coaxial cable connector into the mount .

An internal mounting deck is disposed within the head space between the head shells and atop the grip s top surface . The deck includes an internal mount plate a pair of beveled flanges that flank a slot . The deck permits insertion of a helical spring horizontal screws as well as vertical screws and . The scallop and the slot enable maneuverable operation of the trigger assembly .

For the second embodiment of fixture a mount flange provides an upper surface on which the base or attaches A leg connects the mount flange to a lower joint base that forms a channel . First and second clamp plates and are disposed to be respectively adjacent to the mount flange and the leg the latter within the channel . Screws secure the plates and to their respective counterparts and screws attach the base or to the mount flange . The screws enable the first compression plate to be tightened against the platform wedged against the channel .

The port instrument has additional inputs. Fire Ammo Can Select Toggle Rate of Fire Toggle Field of View Toggle and Camera Select Toggle commands feed respectively from the P. P. P. P. and P. to the trigger and the push buttons first second third and fourth . The DAQ at channels AI and AI receives Elevation and Azimuth command signals from the joystick . Each of these components in their respective controls include connection to electrical ground GND . The joystick palm switch and trigger connect to ground for the starboard instrument . The trigger and push buttons connect to ground for the port instrument .

Supplemental views are provided in the subsequent images. shows a wiring diagram view of the computer interface . A single board computer connects to an Ethernet switch and to a connector card assembly that communicates with an interface connector . The computer connects to bus strips to supply signals to auxiliary systems. shows a wiring diagram view of an interface controller for the port instrument to the computer . The buttons and the trigger submit signals to a port channel junction for the computer via the cable . shows a wiring diagram view of an interface controller from the starboard instrument to the computer . The joystick button trigger and palm switch submit signals to the starboard channel junction for the computer via the cable .

The control instruments in various exemplary embodiments include a commercial off the shelf COTS DAQ and any number of user input devices buttons knobs joysticks mounted in two respective stiff stick control grip handles along with the monitor . The DAQ connects to the monitor via the USB interface as well as supplied drivers. The buttons and receive their power from and transmit inputs to the DAQ . These signals can then be interpreted by the monitor containing software to read the DAQ .

The information gathered from the DAQ can then be used to control other devices. The control instruments each feature a respective pistol grip handle a button space that corresponds to the workspace of the human thumb as well as an inward slope and a backside palm switch both of which are designed to reduce fatigue. These control instruments are designed to be produced for example by either machining or casting and enable right handed or left handed bias pistol grips to be produced from similar parts including the grip stock .

The advantages of this system include ease of reconfiguration and modularity. Physically a new operator input device can be inserted merely by cutting an additional hole in the face of the grip head and extending extra wires to the DAQ . The inward slope of pistol grip handles as well as the positions of the buttons and the thumb joystick the backside palm switch also reduce operator fatigue and strain. The high level of mechanical division also allows for rapid reconfiguration of buttons or arrangement of button space on the head .

There exist various conventional COTS user input instruments. Typically these conventional instruments do not easily facilitate reconfiguration. Such designs that can be reconfigurable are usually limited to certain device types in specified conditions or environments. The various exemplary embodiments described herein obviate these limitations with modular ergonomic features.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

