---

title: Standardized database access system and method
abstract: One embodiment of the present invention relates to a technique for accessing data from a database. The technique may include providing a group of hyper objects each containing a different rule. When a hyper object query language (HOQL) query is received using an HOQL engine, at least one hyper object is selected using the HOQL engine in response to the HOQL query, A data request is sent via the selected hyper object to retrieve data from the database, to be received from the database to be used by the selected hyper object. The requested data is used according to the rule associated with the selected hyper object to provide a desired standardized output.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08549026&OS=08549026&RS=08549026
owner: CliniComp International, Inc.
number: 08549026
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101012
---
The present invention relates in general to a database administration system and method. It more particularly relates to such a system and method useful for managing and accessing data in a native database.

There is no admission that the background art disclosed in this section legally constitutes prior art.

There have been many different types and kinds of database systems. For example reference may be made to U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 829 006 6 016 497 6 119 126 6 223 227 6 571 232 and 7 644 066 and U.S. patent application publications 2003 0105811 2003 0208493 2006 0173873 and 2009 0187344.

Electronic databases have been known and used for many years. A given native database such as a given populated relational database may require modification such as a change in the schema for the data base. In so doing it would be necessary to provide additional changes and modifications to the access method for the database to enable the same or similar reports or other outputs to be generated. The same would be true if the type of database structure were to be changed. In this regard changes and modifications would also be required to maintain consistent reports and other output from the system.

It would be desirable to have a standardized database access system which can generate standardized outputs such as reports from a native database even after the schema or the format of the database is modified or replaced.

It will be readily understood that the components of the embodiments as generally described and illustrated in the drawings herein could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus the following more detailed description of certain ones of the embodiments of the system components and method of the present invention as represented in the drawings is not intended to limit the scope of the invention as claimed but is merely representative of the embodiments of the invention.

According to at least some of the embodiments of the present invention the standardized database access system and method enable standardized outputs such as reports displays and others to be produced independently of the underlying database employed. In this manner a native database can be utilized for producing desired standardized reports and other such output independently of the schema or data structure of a given database. Also the same standardized reports or other output can be readily created even though a change is made in the schema and or the database structure.

There is disclosed a standardized database access system and method. One embodiment of the present invention relates to a technique for accessing data from a database. The technique may include providing a group of hyper objects each containing a different rule. A hyper object is similar to a conventional object except that it does not contain or store data only rules for accessing data from a separate database. When a hyper object query language HOQL query is received using an HOQL engine at least one hyper object is selected using the HOQL engine in response to the HOQL query. A data request is sent via the selected hyper object to retrieve data from the database to be received from the database to be used by the selected hyper object. The requested data is used according to the rule associated with the selected hyper object to provide a desired output.

Thus according to certain embodiments of the present invention the standardized database access system and method can be utilized for different native databases for creating standardized outputs in response to HOQL queries which are similar to familiar SQL queries independently of changes to database formulation or schema.

The standardized database access system provides management function such as creating storing deleting or listing hyper objects. It also provides for data access functions of retrieving storing and updating hyper objects. The hyper objects include both data objects and context objects. The context objects determine for the data hyper objects certain environment or configuration of the information requested responsive to a query.

The data accessed by the hyper object may be interpreted by the use of a context hyper object. The context hyper object may take into account time location and or other which may change the perspective of data accessed. For example a normal drug dose may change dramatically for a neonate as compared to an adult demonstrating the importance of the context of age.

The context hyper object could cause a context portion of a rule of one or more data objects to be transformed accordingly to facilitate the search. Such an approach may be particularly useful where many native database schema combinations are employed and standardized outputs are desired.

Referring now to of the drawings there is shown a database access system constructed in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention and is generally indicated at . As shown in the standardized database access system may include a hyper object query language HOQL engine for receiving a HOQL query from either a HOQL console or a computer utilizing an application programming interface API . The HOQL engine may utilize an HOQL query memory for storing the HOQL queries. A presentation unit presents standardized output to the user in various forms such as printed reports displays and others. A hyper object library containing a group of hyper objects such as hyper objects and for responding to the HOQL queries. The hyper objects may then access and manipulate data requested and received from a group of native databases such as a native database and a native database via an adapter and an adapter respectively. The presentation unit presents standardized outputs to the user in the various forms in response to the HOQL engine as hereinafter described in greater detail.

The hyper objects may each include different rules for requesting access to data in the database and rules for manipulating the data received from the database. The hyper objects may not store data. Each one of the rules in the hyper objects may include functional manipulations logical decisions and context transformations.

The hyper object library may include at least one context hyper object such as a context hyper object and a plurality of data hyper objects such as data hyper objects and . The context hyper object may include rules that may be used to request context data and receive the requested context data from the database via the adapter . The context data may include information regarding the context or environment specified in the search query. Upon receiving and manipulating the requested context data using its rules the context hyper object may then provide a transform command to one or more of the selected data hyper objects such as data hyper object .

The data hyper object may then utilize a transformation portion of its rules. This transformation portion may include additional and or specific rules regarding the context or environment specified in the search query. The data hyper objects such as data hyper object may be used to request hyper object data and receive the requested hyper object data from the database via the adapter . Upon receiving and manipulating the requested hyper object data using its rules the data hyper object may then appear as a pseudo object such as pseudo object to the HOQL engine and provide a standardized output such as a report to the presentation unit via the engine .

An example of a context transformation may be initiated by a query such as the following What word corresponds to the number 1 in context of English The number 1 may correspond to a number of different words such as one uno ichi eins etc. depending on the language context. In this example the word one may be utilized in the search of the database.

Considering now a context age example assume the heart rate of a patient is required to be analyzed. The analysis requires the patient s age as a factor in the analysis. In order to determine whether or not a heart rate for a given patient is normal a context object such as the context hyper object in response to the RETRIEVE signal such a medical analysis retrieval signal regarding a given patient from the HOQL engine sends a REQUEST CONTEXT DATA signal to the native database via the adapter . As a result a CONTEXT DATA signal such as the age of the patient being two days old is retrieved from the database via the adapter and provided to the context hyper object which then provides a TRANSFORM signal to the data hyper object .

The TRANSFORM signal may then provide context information to the data hyper object to transform its rules to identify the given patient as being a neonate. In this manner the data hyper object has its rule transformed in such a manner that neonate normal heart rate data information is utilized instead of heart rate information such for example as adult heart rate information.

Some context transformations may be accomplished by a data hyper object without the use of a context hyper object such that a context rule may be embedded in the rules of the data hyper object.

The presentation unit may allow customization of the standardized report for each user. For example a header including the company s name or other information desired by the user may be added to the report or other desired output.

The database may be a relational database and include one or more databases that require one or more adapters such as the adapter . The adapters may be customized for each of the native databases to avoid the need to modify the other components of the system.

The adapters such as the adapter may provide an interface to allow access to the database so that the adapter may be the only component that needs to be modified in order for the system to operate with different databases. Each adapter may match native databases to common rule sets for different raw data. For example for databases having the colors red green and blue in a first context red may equal 1 green may equal 2 and blue may equal 3. In a second context red may equal 3 green may equal 1 and blue may equal 2. Therefore the adapter may provide if required the proper translation depending on the context of the query. The adapters may abstract the different data structures and abstract them as to a standard output.

The HOQL may be implemented in a manner similar to Structured Query Language SQL used for relational database queries and may use extensions for specific applications. The syntax for HOQL may be substantially the same or similar to the syntax for SQL but the actions may be different such as instructing a first hyper object to command a second hyper object to utilize a transformation portion of its rules in response to a context condition of the query.

The standardized database access system may include both management and data access functions. The management functions may include the ability to create delete describe and list hyper objects. The data access functions may include the ability to retrieve store and update data from the database .

Referring now to a standardized database access method using the system of in accordance with an embodiment of the invention is shown and generally referenced as . At step a search query inputted by a user using the HOQL console or the computer executing the appropriate API may be received. The query may be for a search which may be a Boolean search a natural language search or other appropriate search.

From this received search query a HOQL query may be generated and provided to the HOQL engine as shown at step . At step the HOQL query may include a selection of one or more hyper objects in the hyper object library and instructions on their combination if necessary. As shown in step the hyper objects may then each send a data request to the database. From this data request to the database the hyper object may then receive the requested data at step . After the requested data is received at the hyper object the data may be manipulated to create a desired output such as a report or other desired document at step . The desired standardized output may include adding specific user information or formatting to the report or document. At step the desired output may be provided to the user at a display on a screen and or as a printed document or other.

If both a context hyper object and a data hyper object are selected the context hyper object may send its context data request to the database prior to the data hyper object sending its hyper object data request to the database. When the context hyper object receives the requested context data from the database the requested context data may then be manipulated to determine whether or not a transformation portion of the rules of one or more of the data hyper objects should be used in response to the HOQL query. If it is determined that a transformation portion of the rules of one or more of the data hyper objects should be used a transform command may be sent to the appropriate data hyper objects. A data hyper object that receives the transform command may utilize the desired transformation portion of its rules in response to the transform command and to the query. The data hyper object may then use this transformation portion of its rules to send its hyper object data request to the database and to manipulate the requested hyper object data.

If during the generation of the HOQL query it is determined that the available hyper objects in the hyper object library are not adequate to respond to the search query from the user or for any other reason that one or more new hyper objects would be desirable the HOQL query may instruct the creation of a new hyper object such as hyper object . This created hyper object may then be utilized alone or in combination with other hyper objects to respond to the search query or other query as described above regarding . If it is determined that this created hyper object may be useful for subsequent searches it may be stored in the hyper object library and become available for use by subsequent HOQL queries. It should be noted that the hyper object may be deleted.

While particular embodiments of the present invention have been disclosed it is to be understood that various different modifications are passing and one contemplated within the true spirit and scope of the appended claims. There is no intention therefore of limitations to the exact abstract or disclosure herein presented.

