---

title: Exercise system with graphical feedback and method of gauging fitness progress
abstract: A system and method for providing visual feedback to a user of an exercise machine for gauging fitness progress of the user. The system provides a user of an exercise machine with a virtual competition in which the user competes against virtual competitors based on his past performances or those of other users, either as an individual or as a member of a team. The team may also be part of a league. For an individual competing against his own past performance(s), the system may raise the level of performance required to win the virtual competition, and may also lower the level of performance required if the user is not performing well on a particular day. For an individual competing against others in either real-time or against designated results, either as part of a team or a league, the system may reduce the isolation, disconnection, and tedium often experienced by users of cardiovascular exercise equipment and provide a social outlet. The system attempts to keep the user engaged and motivated to achieve desired fitness goals by providing real-time performance data and historical performance data displayed in a graphical manner coupled with the entertainment and excitement of competition and social interaction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08012064&OS=08012064&RS=08012064
owner: Pantometrics, Ltd.
number: 08012064
owner_city: Falls Church
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101206
---
This application is a continuation of application Ser. No. 12 814 633 filed Jun. 14 2010 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 846 069 which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 11 245 041 filed Oct. 7 2005 U.S. Pat. No. 7 736 272 which is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 11 000 920 filed on Dec. 2 2004 now abandoned which is a continuation in part of application Ser. No. 09 933 576 filed on Aug. 21 2001 now abandoned which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

This present invention relates generally to exercise equipment and more particularly to a cardiovascular exercise machine having a display system to provide a visual gauge of fitness progress and a method for gauging fitness progress.

Cardiovascular exercise machines as used herein include fitness bikes treadmills step machines stair machines rowing machines cross country skiing machines and or the like. These exercise machines have been equipped with a device comprising a combination of a visual display and a controller. For example an exercise machine is known to have attached thereto a media system. The media system may provide capability to play compact discs and cassette tapes as well as providing small television screens on which to view television programming movies and or the like. In such machines there is no electronic connection between the media system and the exercise machine. The media system merely provides the capability to watch TV and play music during workouts.

In another known exercise machine monitors are attached in order to vary and monitor parameters of the workout such as resistance target heart rate time elapsed distance covered current pulse rate caloric burn rate and total calories consumed during the workout. The monitors may typically display numeric variables in pre formatted areas and grids of dots that are either lit to produce bars of various heights. Once a user finishes the workout summary information may be briefly displayed in numeric format and then may disappear.

In yet another example of known exercise equipment exercise machines are provided with Internet connectivity for use while exercising. This particular system may also provide for individual user identification recording of total or cumulative miles of exercise achieved for each identified user and permit a user to view his or her own summary of historical totals while in the system. However this display may be in the form of numerical data possibly in a spreadsheet format.

There may have been products or services where a computer projects a paced competitor that proceeds at a specific pre selected speed. In other systems a user may compete against other users. Although these systems may harness the competitive spirit or alleviate exercise boredom for some these systems suffer from several limitations.

For example conventional exercise displays may not allow a user to determine whether the user is performing better or worse than in the past. For example a user may want to determine if he or she can cycle or run faster further or easier today as compared with yesterday or last week. Further conventional exercise displays may not allow a user to determine how much energy was expended during their present workout as compared with a previous workout except in total and after they complete the workout.

A common concern of exercise machine users is whether they are improving their fitness. Conventional exercise machine displays may not allow a user to determine if the user is improving his her fitness and if so by how much and in what way.

Another common concern of exercise equipment users is whether they are more fit currently than they were in the past. Conventional exercise displays may not allow a user to determine for example whether the user is more fit today than the user was yesterday last week or last month and if so by how much and in what way.

Yet another concern of users of exercise machines may be about what needs to be done immediately in order to reach a desired performance level. Conventional exercise machine displays may not allow a user to determine how much harder the user has to exercise in order to reach a desired performance goal. Further conventional exercise machine displays may not allow a user to determine how much harder the user should exercise immediately in order to improve performance.

A still further concern of exercise machine users may be determining average performance during exercise sessions and what the trend of the average is.

Conventional exercise displays may not allow a user to determine how tired the user was at a similar point in a previous workout. Further conventional exercise machine displays may not allow a user to determine if a user is capable of beating the user s fastest or best time because conventional exercise displays may not allow a user to determine the user s best performance achievement to date for specific distances or durations.

A major concern of exercise machine users is determining whether there has been any measurable progress made toward the user s goal of improving their fitness.

A difficulty in exercise programs may be that regular rigorous exercise is hard to maintain. For example many people may start exercise programs with great enthusiasm but may quickly lose motivation after a few weeks. According to research approximately 60 of new members joining gyms to start an exercise program may give up after 3 months. At the beginning of a new year consumers may spend thousands of dollars on exercise machines and within a few months the exercise machines may be gathering dust in a basement. For many people it may be difficult enough to get motivated to start exercising in the first place and may be even more difficult to maintain high exercise intensity for a full 20 30 minute workout. Although many people may be highly motivated to exercise for self improvement for most aerobic activities particularly using exercise machines may be hard work tedious repetitive uncomfortable and or boring.

Conventional visual systems on or around exercise equipment attempt to address these concerns. While some visual display systems may alleviate the tedium felt during repetitive motion exercise they may also be distracting to the workout itself.

Although conventional systems may make the user less bored during exercise they may not make the user less bored by exercise. For example watching a great basketball game on a television display system while exercising may be entertaining but it may not help a user get a better workout. In fact quite the opposite may result. Such systems may entertain the user but at the cost of further disconnecting the user from the exercise activity. They may also impair a connection to the exercise activity and an ability to engage in intense workouts.

Activities like television or surfing the net available on exercise equipment may make one more likely to come to the gym but because they may distract the user from the workout they may reduce the intensity of the exercise program. Yet for fitness improvement it may be critical for a user to push beyond his limitations and for this reason an increase in workout intensity may be necessary. In other words it may not be enough to be less bored during exercise activity for fitness improvement. Rather a user may need to feel more invested in the activity itself.

Exercise frequency is important but without workout intensity improvements may be very limited. For intense workouts motivation and concentration may be critical. Because conventional systems may actually make it more difficult to concentrate and work out hard users may experience limited fitness improvements even after using such exercise machines for long periods of time. As a result they may get both bored and disappointed leading to a possible discontinuation of the exercise activity.

Conventional exercise machine display systems may periodically display limited variables such as the user s current heart rate in numerical format. In contrast the present invention allows the user to view graphs and charts showing continuously changing variables such as pulse rate in real time from the initiation of the workout. This real time graphical representation allows a user to continuously monitor and adjust relative effort intensity and duration as well as progress and self improvement.

A further deficiency in conventional exercise equipment is that they isolate users from each other. Conventional exercise machine display systems do not provide for communication competition or interaction among users because at best said conventional systems are only connected to the same brand and or types of exercise equipment. In contrast the current invention allows users of different models or even different types of equipment from different vendors in different places and at different times to mutually identify workout partners to permit others to use their stored workouts as pacers or even to compete against others in real time. The Fitclub system can allow users to use different types of machines from different vendors by maintaining the relevant distance calibration for each model in the database as shown in the machine model distance table in the drawing in . The present invention also allows a user to send and receive messages to and from other users while working out and to make those messages accessible to other users both in real time or later during the receiver s workout. The current invention also allows individual users to cooperate with others in their workouts as members of teams or leagues in real time or with previously saved workouts. The current invention provides these capabilities for users exercising on equipment directly next to each other in the same exercise facility or in exercise facilities or homes across the world.

With some known exercise machines users are able to choose a variety of pre programmed workout environments in which the user s virtual figure exercises. These various environments are generic and often involve a country landscape or a mountain landscape. The present invention by contrast allows users to choose from a variety of true to life routes on which to exercise by cycling running or other cardio activity and to do so in real time with others in the same virtual place . These real time real life landscapes include Washington D.C. New York City and the Tour de France as well as many other virtual location scenes either actual or fictional.

An exemplary embodiment of the present invention provides a solution to the problem and limitations of conventional display system discussed above by creating a real time visual feedback environment in which the user may exercise in a virtual competition. In the virtual competition a user exercises against his her own previous workouts as shadow competitors while continuously receiving updated graphical presentations of relevant performance and physiological parameters based on the current workout and in relation to those of previous workouts. An exemplary embodiment of the present invention comprises a local computer or processor attached to an exercise machine a visual display device processes software drivers graphical animation methods and a remote server s and database. This embodiment uses a separate local computer for each client but the system may work in an equivalent fashion with a single local server providing the processing. This embodiment of the present invention provides a method and system for measuring recording and providing graphical and or visual feedback to users of the relevant parameters of their current workouts juxtaposed with those of their own previous workouts or with those of other user s who have permitted them to do so on exercise machines. The system may work in an equivalent fashion in real time competitions and with minor adjustments for many different cardiovascular exercise machines.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention the display system of the invention may be attached to an exercise bicycle. In this embodiment the local system visual display mechanism for example a monitor attached to an exercise bike presents a small cyclist figure representing the current workout of the user. The figure may move along a virtual track on the display screen varying in relation to the rate at which the user is pedaling. The invention may also produce several other shadow competitor cyclist figures. The other shadow competitors may represent actual and or theoretical workouts previously recorded which may be averages or the user s best performance results or may be other users who have given permission for their results to be used in a competition either as an individual or a member of a team or a league. Each of the shadow competitors may move along the virtual track at a rate in accordance with the speed at which the user pedaled during an actual workout. In addition to reproducing into the current virtual environment actual workouts previously recorded the invention also generates mathematical or even theoretical shadow competitors to represent for example a weekly monthly team or any other average or for such things as the personal best time.

In addition to creating the virtual competition an exemplary embodiment of the present invention may provide a continuous record of all workout variables from the beginning of the workout to the present time in graphical format. For example the user may see not only what his current pulse rate is but the user may see a line graph of exactly what it is at each point in the workout and how the user s pulse rate has been changing throughout the workout. To allow for comparisons with previous workouts an exemplary embodiment may also provide the user with an input device such as for example a touch screen to bring up the same graphical representations for each and any of the shadow competitors. These graphs may be juxtaposed or overlaid with the current graph for that variable to provide the user with immediate up to date visual comparisons. This allows the user to readily see for example how his current pulse rate has changed compared to his her pulse rate on a previous workout up to this same point in the workout.

The visual juxtaposition or overlay of workout shadows allows the user to easily and immediately see whether the user is ahead or behind a particular shadow s and by how much. The graphical juxtaposition or overlay of workout variables such as pulse rate also allows the user to readily ascertain the relative intensity and relative fitness compared to specific previous workouts at each point throughout the workout. This feedback may keep a user involved in a workout and provide an incentive to work harder.

The invention in an exemplary embodiment thus provides visual representations in real time of up to date workout intensity and progress or change over time as the user is achieving it. The present invention may be designed to make the workout more personal more interesting more compelling and or provide the greater motivation. Visually the system may mimic watching oneself compete on television in a representation of an actual place without ever actually being there. Although previously exercise may have been a solitary and boring activity the visual feedback system of the present invention on relative workout performance in real time may provide for an interesting competition and also provide immediate visual feedback on many aspects of the workout as well as improvement over time. The present invention may overcome the limitations of conventional systems by combining physical and or physiological feedback relative to previous workouts which may provide psychological reinforcement for increasing intensity and self improvement.

In an exemplary embodiment of the present invention each user may choose to compete against himself. This may be important for psychological reasons. Unlike competing against others this is a competition that all users can win most of the time providing more encouragement and therefore incentive to try harder. In fact on any given day each user may have a chance to win their race. However each time they do it raises the performance bar for next time. The more often one beats a shadow competitor the better performance it takes to beat the shadow competitor the next time but also the more the user pushes his her body to improve it s capabilities. Conversely after a few slower weeks a user may be temporarily discouraged but the performance bar is being lowered which gives the user a better chance of doing well the next time period. It is this finely tuned automatic adjusting of the performance bar that an exemplary embodiment of the present invention provides which constructs an appropriate schedule of positive psychological reinforcement and therefore encouragement. To maximize motivation an exemplary embodiment of the present invention may make each workout challenging but not discouragingly so for each user based on their abilities and past performance.

Another exemplary embodiment of the present invention shows measurable progress towards a fitness goal in a way that may also provide an incentive and reward for effort. By providing feedback in a current workout the system may encourage a user in real time when the user s motivation is most vulnerable.

In other words the system and method of the present invention may make a computer game out of workouts. Millions of people play computer games long and often and perhaps even obsessively. Although this may sound like unproductive or frivolous behavior on a computer game it is exactly the behavior to encourage for exercise activities. Therefore the system and method of the present invention may be designed to take advantage of the same psychological forces by creating the same environment. Only in this game the joystick is an exercise machine the skill is workout effort and the only way to win the game is to workout harder. Normally obsessive gaming leads to sore thumbs but by attaching a different game console and joystick this invention actually harnesses obsessive behavior to get sore muscles and fitness improvements.

Further in this exemplary embodiment a user may with the permission of other users choose to exercise or race against their workout partner s already completed and stored workouts as a shadow competitor . In the exemplary embodiment the user will be permitted to add or remove the userIDs of their designated partners on a form on the website at any time. The user s choice of designated workout partners will be kept on the remote database in a table like in of the drawings. In the exemplary embodiment when the user logs on they will then be allowed to choose from a list of their own saved workouts and those of users who have designated them as workout partners.

In the exemplary embodiment a user may also choose to communicate with other users while working out in real time. Each time a user logs on to the system a flag is entered into the database in table identifying their presence in the system and the ID of the individual machine they are on in table . In the exemplary embodiment users will be prompted to communicate with their workout partners if any of them they are simultaneously logged on to the system in accordance with the flow shown in . Or they may send messages for workout partners or any other users in accordance with the flow shown in by using their e mail address as shown in table .

Another exemplary embodiment of the present invention provides for communications and interactions among users and health clubs. In the conventional exercise environment even in those scenarios where perhaps hundreds of other users are physically present a user is isolated from his fellow exercisers as he operates a piece of exercise equipment. This disconnected and isolating experience which occurs in the midst of so many other people often leads users to discontinue their exercise pursuits. In contrast an exemplary embodiment of the present invention provides for users to mutually identify work out partners in the system stored in table to permit those partners to mutually retrieve and compete against each others saved workouts and to allow users to communicate with other users in real time or leave messages for them to retrieve during their next workout on the GWFS.

In the exemplary embodiment the graphical workout feedback system GWFS provides via the website the capability for users to define and administer leagues and teams within the system and to establish durations criteria and reward systems for those leagues. This data will be administered as shown in of the drawings. In this embodiment the GWFS will allow users to make the leagues as narrow or as broad as they wish for example over 40 female members of Golds Gym . In the exemplary embodiment eligibility for those leagues will be assessed automatically by the system based on the information retained on member users. In the exemplary embodiment each individual workout may be attributed to one two or as many leagues or teams as they want simultaneously.

In yet another exemplary embodiment of the present invention comprises a remote data system a website a local system and a method of connecting the remote and local systems.

The remote system comprises a remotely located web and database server s which may or may not be co located with installed operating system s accessible by a large number of local systems a database and transmission and communication protocols and operating system software technologies and application programming interfaces APIs .

The local system comprises a computer and monitor connected to an exercise machine a set of sensors and drivers for measuring user workout activities motions on the machine and transmitting them to the system in electronic form transmission and communication protocols routers interface query programs for sending and retrieving workout data to and from remote database as well as the software implementing the user interfaces the graphics the 3D animation functionality. The animation functionality comprises 3 dimensional visual representations of current and previous actual or mathematically constructed workouts in the same time space reference e.g. figures representing the current exercise activity competing against ones own previous workout time 3 dimensional terrains and models of actual places and objects as well as graphical presentations of different parameters of current and previous workouts such as distance covered resistance and pulse rate up to date in real time and throughout the duration of the workout.

The connectivity between local and remote systems may be a wired or wireless network such as for example the Internet.

Referring to there is illustrated a block diagram of a conventional client server database system with Internet connection. In particular client server system comprises a server a database an Internet network and a client .

In operation the persistence framework provides a mechanism for the GWFS application data to be permanently saved. The user interface provides the graphical user interface functionality. The exercise machine interface provides an interface to the sensor coupled to the exercise machine and or the user. The object model java virtual machine and the operating system provide various software support services that enable the GWFS application to operate.

In operation the exercise machines equipped with the GWFS and store and retrieve data in the database via communication across network . The network may be a wired or wireless network.

Further the system provides for individual user identification and confirmation. User input is accomplished by the local part of the system the GWFS units and which are attached to the exercise machines. The GWFS units and prompt the user to enter information identifying the user and intended workout parameters. The visual display of the GWFS units and provides this functionality through a touch sensitive monitor screen keyboard that is displayed in response to the user initiating the system. The touch sensitive screen keyboard is a preferred but not the only method for the local system interface and is desirable primarily for eliminating the need for a physical keyboard. The system is initiated when a user touches the application icon or when a user commences to use the equipment in the normal manner. If the user requests GWFS functionality the local system sends a query to the remote database via the network using identification information input by the user. As soon as the local part of the system authenticates the user from the remote database it returns their previous workouts allows the user to select from those workouts and then it creates a virtual competition environment on a selected area of the visual display monitor . The system generates different virtual competition environments depending on the particular exercise machine it is attached to. For illustrative purposes the current description assumes it is attached to an exercise bike. In this case the virtual competition environment consists of a road or track circular linear or other shaped course in which cycling figures can be depicted. The GWFS units and depict the current workout as a figure on a bike moving along the track at a speed commensurate with the rate at which the user pedals on the exercise machine. The system moves the cyclist around along the virtual track much in the same way a video game does. But the GWFS in this configuration responds to pedal motion not to input from a joystick or game console. This functionality is accomplished using various graphical animation methods.

When the remote server not shown receives the identification request from the local GWFS units and it verifies the user identification and returns a package of data to the local site i.e. the GWFS units and . This package of data is typically a standardized profile of the user s previous workouts.

The initial standard data package depends on the recency and availability of previous workout data. The GWFS units and temporarily store this data on the local hard drive and then use this data to generate a variety of shadow competitors and add them to the visual presentation of the virtual competition. One shadow competitor is generated for each previous workout retrieved. For example if the individual has already been working out for a minute by the time the local system receives the data package then the GWFS presents each shadow competitor at the logical location on the virtual track that was reached one minute after the start of each respective workout. Each shadow competitor is color coded for easy visual identification and with a color intensity in reverse proportion to the recency of that workout. For example if a shadow represents a workout from a month ago the shadow would have a very low color intensity. The local system also generates shadow competitors for theoretical workouts such as the previous weeks average the previous months average weekly average to date personal best and others. A preferred number of shadow competitors depending on several conditions is 5 10. The standard competition includes the previous five workouts plus a shadow for the average of those five plus a shadow for the user s personal best time for that workout distance. In any case it is likely that the virtual competition will function best based on a total of less than 10 total shadow competitors. However the GWFS units and also generate more shadow competitors in response to subsequent user requests.

The GWFS units and recreate the exact movement over time of those previous workouts but depict them as shadow competitors moving along the same virtual track as the current workout. Each shadow is depicted either behind or ahead of the current workout figure and each other at all times in exact proportion to their relative performance from the initiation of the workout. In other words the GWFS units and take all these workouts that occurred in reality at different times and recreates them in the same track as if they were happening simultaneously. It should be appreciated that the graphical presentation may be in two dimensional graphics or in three dimensional graphic representations. With a result that the GWFS creates a visual effect similar to a real time computer game using a virtual competition with oneself.

In operation the heart rate graph distance graph and blood oxygen level graph are responsive to data received from sensors attached to the user or to the exercise machine. The first virtual competitor and second virtual competitor are responsive to historical data retrieved from a database. The graphical symbol of a current workout is responsive to current workout sensed data. The touch screen portion is responsive to user input.

Further the graphics necessary for the basic visual presentation and functionality of the graphical user interface are retained on and generated by the local GWFS. Because the required graphics images are known prior to run time this is not a problem. It should be appreciated that many different competition environments or tracks could be easily provided as options to the user. The GWFS is configured so that communications between remote and local systems are in the form of conventional protocols but may be implemented in later developed protocols. By transmitting only data bandwidth requirements can be kept to a minimum for this functionality.

Conventional systems may provide methods for measuring recording and presenting summary information on exercise machine workouts. Known exercise bikes for example display for a few seconds at the finish of the workout the total number of miles cycled total number of calories burned and total time duration. However even if systems retained summary information such as that the current user covered 4.86 miles in the previous 15 minute workout this would provide sub optimal estimates for creating a virtual competition and inadequate records for graphical presentations and real time feedback. To remedy this problem the local system of the current invention measures and records several aspects of each workout in small increments throughout the duration of the exercise activity.

For some workout variables such as the pedaling rate and resistance the GWFS measures and records one or more times per second others such as pulse rate are recorded at larger intervals such as once per minute. The GWFS uses straight line extrapolation to smoothly bridge from one measurement point to the other for those workout variables that are recorded at larger time intervals. Tradeoffs and compromises may have to be made between the number of variables measured the measurement interval the number and size of shadow figures number of dimensions graphical views and other variables depending on system processing or memory resources. There are many permutations that work perfectly well and the specific combination is not critical to the functioning of the invention although at extremes it may affect the degree of realism perceived by users.

On some conventional equipment the variable known as level is actually a parameter that varies resistance to the pedaling activity. In the real world this is equivalent to a gear on a bike. A higher gear is a higher resistance level but covers more distance per revolution. However in the current art no accommodation is made of how the resistance variable impacts distance covered. In fact on some known exercise bikes pedaling for half an hour causes the display to read the same 10.8 miles covered each time regardless of the resistance level or even revolutions per minute RPM of pedaling. Although varying the level and RPM parameters causes these machines to report different results for calories burned it is quite clear that measures generated by some conventional systems are gross unrealistic and unreliable. To more realistically reflect distance covered in a manner similar to an actual bike ride in the real world the GWFS calculates the distance covered using the RPM directly and by multiplying this by an increasingly large factor as the level is increased. Thus the distance covered after ten seconds of pedaling at 100 RPM at resistance level six will be 1.x times as much as the same time and RPM at resistance level five. Calculation of the correct relative distance ratios for each resistance level is obviously an iterative process requiring a different calibration that varies by specific type of exercise equipment and even by model or version. One of ordinary skill in the current art understands that the specific multiplier for each resistance level is subject to some tweaking and may even have to vary ultimately according to the specific machine brand and model. Nevertheless the GWFS is designed to consistently and credibly maximize the accuracy of such variables to minimize user disconnectedness from the workout activity in sharp contrast to methods used in the current art. In practical terms all the system needs to do to provide a substantial improvement is to have the distance increase with increasing revolutions per minute not to measure it precisely. The formula for calculating distance will inevitably be approximate initially and improve over time.

Although the conventional systems may provide sensory devices on handles attached to the equipment for measuring pulse rates these methods are not considered sufficiently accurate or reliable. In a preferred embodiment the GWFS utilizes a different device that receives sensory information from a source closer to the heart. The device is a sensory device worn like a strap over the shoulder resting directly over the chest and receiving sensory input through the chest rather than the hands. Such devices are currently available commercially as stand alone pulse rate measurement devices. This GWFS invention will utilize such devices but will integrate them into the system by directly wiring the sensory device to the GWFS. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that wireless technology will perform this function equally as well as a physical wiring. The methods to integrate data from this device are also relatively straightforward and well known in the current art. In this configuration the GWFS records the pulse rate continuously using the sensory device but then instead of replacing previous measurements with new ones as in the current art the GWFS retains and stores the recorded pulse rate every 60 120 seconds on the local system. As with new data on all parameters the GWFS then immediately updates graphical presentations. Those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that it may be desirable to also measure such variables as blood oxygen level oxygen intake respirations and or the like. These variables vary significantly during intense aerobic activity and the means to measure record and display them are known to the current art although they are typically utilized in sports medicine or hospital situations. The system and method of the present invention may enable the same level of sophistication to be achieved on exercise machines in a gym.

In operation the select item button show options button change mode button back button and end workout button are provided for receiving control input from a user. The calorie chart performance graph annual pie chart and weekly improvement bar chart are responsive to current and or historical workout data. The first virtual competitor represents a workout from ten days ago. The second virtual competitor represents last week s average performance. The third virtual competitor represents yesterday s workout. The fourth virtual competitor represents today s workout. The fifth virtual competitor represents the best performance of the user. The virtual competitors are responsive to historical and or current data.

The buttons are graphical symbols on a touch screen interface and respond to touch pressure from the user applied to the screen. While specific user interface elements are shown in it should be appreciated that the user interface elements may be implemented in a variety of forms.

In step the instantaneous data is stored. Control then continues to step . In step historical data is retrieved. Control continues to step .

In step the GWFS renders a graphical representation of the current workout instantaneous sensed data and the historical data. Control then continues to step when the control sequence ends. However the nature of the GWFS may require that control remain in a loop. In such an embodiment control would continue from step back to step and the control sequence would begin again. Such a control loop may operate until terminated by a user by power off or by other source.

During the workout activities all information relating to the workout is recorded and stored on the local system hard drive. As the workout proceeds and as designated memory is allocated the local system can periodically copy a partial chunk of the current workout data and attempt to transmit it to the remote system to be stored in the database. This allows that storage to be freed up if the local system threatens to run out. The optimal size or periodicity of these transmissions is between 1 5 minutes of completed workout data depending on the connectivity usage and other factors. At the conclusion of the workout during periods of down time and based on availability of connectivity the local system communicates with the remote system to insure that all data related to complete workouts have been received by the remote system and stored on the remote database. After confirmation of receipt from the remote location the local system deletes the local copies of workout data on the hard drive and releases the storage whether it is needed or not.

In a preferred embodiment the GWFS segments the visual display into three parts. It allocates the ongoing virtual competition to one area of the visual display graphs of workout data to a second area and user input icons to a third area. Optimally the far right part of the visual display screen a column approximately 20 25 of screen width be allocated to user input icons and the remaining portion of the visual display is segmented by a horizontal line approximately of the way down from the top. In the optimal configuration the virtual competition is presented in the larger portion at the bottom of the screen.

The permissions table through the givingUserID and receivingUserID fields allows a user to designate one or more other users with which to share information and to partner with for working out. Flags such as the allow use workout and allowViewReports are used to determine the details of what information is to be shared and how information is shared between users.

In step the system extracts the userID and machineID from the logon transaction and stores them in a database. Control then continues to step . In step the system checks the first user s message box which may be previously established for a flag indicating new messages. If no flag is present control continues to step .

If a new message flag were found the first user would be alerted to the presence of a message through an on screen visual display an audio cue or a combination of the above.

In step the user may request the messaging function. Control then continues to step where the first user enters a userID of a second user they want to contact. Control then continues to step .

In step the system checks a user table see for example for the value in the loggedOnFlag for the userID of the desired contact. If the system detects the presence of the requested contact i.e. the second user is logged in control then continues to step where the system opens a 2 way dialog box on the displays of both the first user and second user and alerts the second user of the contact seeker. If the user sought does not have a loggedOn value in the loggedOnFlag in table control passes to step .

In step the system allows a message to be typed and puts a flag in the second user s message box. When the second user logs on control passes to step . Control then passes to step where the system checks user table for the haveMessageFlag for that user finds the message and passes it to the second user. Then the control sequence ends. The control sequence may be repeated as desired or necessary to fully process messages.

In step the system enters a check in the loggedOnFlag in table for the second user. Control then continues to step .

In step the system checks the second user s designated workout buddies in table and identifies the first user. Control then continues to step where the system checks the loggedOnFlag for user and identifies user as in the system. Control then passes to step . In step the system opens a 2 way dialog box on each of the display systems of the first users and the second users linked by their recorded machineIDs. Then the control sequence ends and the first and second users are able to exchange messages while working out. The control sequence may be repeated as necessary or desired to maintain communications between users of the GWFS.

The Leagues database includes a LeagueID field for uniquely identifying the league a LeagueName field for storing the name of the league a LeagueManager field for storing the name of the league manager a LeagueStartDate field a LeagueEndDate field a MaxTeamsPerLeague field for establishing the maximum number of teams for the league a MaxPersonsPerTeam field for specifying the maximum number of people per team a GymIDCriteria field used in limiting the league to one or more specific gyms a MachineTypeCriteria for limiting the league to one or more specific machine types a GenderCriteria for limiting the league to a particular gender and an AgeCriteria field for limiting the league to a particular age or age range.

The Teams database includes a TeamID field for uniquely identifying a team a TeamName field for storing the name of the team and a Team ManagerID field for storing the ID of the team manager.

The TeamMembers database includes UserID and TeamID fields to associate a user with a team and JoinDate and EndDate fields to indicate when a user joined a team and left a team.

In step the first user is associated with a team and league membership. Control then continues to step .

In step the overall league standings are updated. Control then continues to step where the sequence ends. The control sequence of may be repeated as desired or needed to update the user team and league data.

In step the GWFS creates a race pool of competitors and puts the UserID of the first user into the race pool. The control sequence continues to step .

In step the GWFS adds the second user to the race pool created in step . The race pool now contains the UserIDs for the first user and the second user. Control continues to step .

In step the first user may start the race or may wish to delay starting the race to allow for other users to join. Control continues to steps and . In steps and other users may log on and may be added to the race pool if they request a race. Control continues to step .

In step the GWFS initiates simultaneous tracking for all machineIDs associated with the UserIDs in the race pool. The race continues for a given time distance or other criteria as selected by the first user. When the race is complete results may be displayed to each user participating in the race. The control sequence continues to step when the sequence ends. The control sequence of may be repeated as often as a user initiates a race request.

The Races database includes a RaceID field for uniquely identifying a race a RaceStartDateTime field for storing the start date and time of the race a RaceDistance field for storing the distance of the race and a Race duration field for storing the time duration of the race.

The RaceResults database includes a RaceID field for associating the results with a race in the Races database a UserID field for associating a user form the User database with a race result and a UserPositionInRace field for storing a user s finishing position in a race. The User database is described above in relation to .

In step a first user User logs onto a website coupled to the GWFS and associated databases containing workout information. Control then continues to step .

In step the first user requests permission to view or retrieve workout reports or data of a second user User . Control then continues to step .

In step the GWFS records the View Reports request in the permissions database in a field associated with the second user. Control then continues to step .

In step the second user logs onto the website coupled to the GWFS and associated databases. Control then continues to step .

In step the second user is presented with the request from the first user to view the workout reports of the second user. And in this example the second user permits the request allowing the first user to view the workout reports of the second user. Alternatively the second user may reject the request and the first user would not be permitted to view the workout reports of the second user. Control then continues to step .

In step the GWFS sets the View Reports flag and the UserID of the first user in the permissions table entry for the second user. Control then continues to step .

In step the GWFS enables the first user to view the workout reports of the second user. Control then continues to step .

In step when the first user logs onto the website again the acceptance of the view Reports request is displayed and the first user may view or retrieve the workout reports for the second user.

The sequence shown in may be used by employers insurers health professionals or others to monitor verify and track the workouts of selected users who have accepted the request for the viewing of their workout reports. For example a health insurer may wish to monitor the workouts of its subscribers or customers. In another example an employer or insurer may wish to monitor workouts to determine the usefulness and effectiveness of a fringe benefit such as a gym membership.

The graphical workout feedback method and system as shown in the above figures may be implemented on a general purpose computer a special purpose computer a programmed microprocessor or microcontroller and peripheral integrated circuit element and ASIC or other integrated circuit a digital signal processor a hardwired electronic or logic circuit such as a discrete element circuit a programmed logic device such as a PLD PLA FPGA PAL or the like. In general any process capable of implementing the functions described herein can be used to implement a system for graphical workout feedback according to this invention.

Furthermore the disclosed system may be readily implemented in software using object or object oriented software development environments that provide portable source code that can be used on a variety of computer technologies and platforms. Alternatively the disclosed system for providing graphical workout feedback may be implemented partially or fully in hardware using standard logic circuits or a VLSI design. Other hardware or software can be used to implement the systems in accordance with this invention depending on the speed and or efficiency requirements of the systems the particular function and or a particular software or hardware system microprocessor or microcomputer system being utilized. The graphical workout feedback methods and systems illustrated herein can readily be implemented in hardware and or software using any known or later developed systems or structures devices and or software by those of ordinary skill in the applicable art from the functional description provided herein and with a general basic knowledge of the computer and mark up language arts.

Moreover the disclosed methods may be readily implemented in software executed on programmed general purpose computer a special purpose computer a microprocessor or the like. In these instances the systems and methods of this invention can be implemented as program embedded on personal computer such as JAVA or CGI script as a resource residing on a server or graphics workstation as a routine embedded in a dedicated encoding decoding system or the like. The system can also be implemented by physically incorporating the system and method into a software and or hardware system such as the hardware and software systems of an image processor.

It is therefore apparent that there is provided in accordance with the present invention systems and methods for providing graphical workout feedback. While this invention has been described in conjunction with a number of embodiments it is evident that many alternatives modifications and variations would be or are apparent to those of ordinary skill in the applicable arts. Accordingly applicants intend to embrace all such alternatives modifications equivalents and variations that are within the spirit and scope of this invention.

