---

title: Systems and methods of using a lighting system to enhance brand recognition
abstract: The present solution described herein provides systems and methods to coordinate and control the lighting of areas of a display unit in manner desired based on the type, brand and other characteristics of the product presented for display via the display unit. A lighting control system may control the characteristics of light emanating from one or more light sources to cause a reaction or visual effect from light reactive material of the product or display unit. In some cases, the lighting control system may control the characteristics of light emanating from one or more light sources based on signals from detectors, such as sensing any state or condition of the ambient environment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08086490&OS=08086490&RS=08086490
owner: Integrated Illumination Systems
number: 08086490
owner_city: Morris
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100414
---
This application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 941 827 filed Nov. 16 2007 which is now U.S. Pat. No. 7 729 941 B2 and entitled SYSTEMS AND METHODS OF USING A LIGHTING SYSTEM TO ENHANCE BRAND RECOGNITION which claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 866 286 filed Nov. 17 2006 and entitled APPARATUS AND METHOD OF USING LIGHTING SYSTEMS TO ENHANCE RECOGNITION both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. This application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 866 286 filed Nov. 17 2006 and entitled APPARATUS AND METHOD OF USING LIGHTING SYSTEMS TO ENHANCE RECOGNITION. 

The present application is generally related to lighting systems. In particular the present applications is directed to systems and methods for improving marketability and enhance brand recognition of a product by controlling the light in the display unit presenting the product.

Color is a powerful means of communication and plays an important part in our everyday lives. Color can sway thinking change actions and cause reactions. It can irritate or soothe your eyes raise your blood pressure or suppress your appetite. Corporations have always used color as a source of brand recognition and advertising. For example it is a well known fact that in the majority of cases blue light suppresses appetite while red light increases hunger. For this reason rarely are food advertisements the color blue or do you see blue light in restaurants. A University of Loyola Maryland study concluded that color increases brand recognition by up to 80 percent. Another independent study conducted by the secretariat of the Seoul International Color Expo 2004 yielded results which demonstrate the power of color in marketing. According to the survey 92.6 of respondents said that they put most importance on visual factors when purchasing products and when asked to approximate the importance of color by percentage when buying products 48 of the respondents said 50 70 percent while 36.7 percent said 70 100 percent. This means that as much as 84.7 percent of the total respondents think that color accounts for more than half among the various factors important for choosing products.

Color does not just merely enhance memory and recollection of a product but it also can subtly and quickly affect the decision making processes. In fact CCICOLOR Institute for Color Research studies concluded that people make a subconscious judgment about a product within 90 seconds of initial viewing and that between 62 and 90 of that assessment is based on color alone. Further research by the Henley Centre suggests that 73 of purchasing decisions are now made in store. These studies further highlight the use of color in catching people s attention and quickly conveying brand identity to them to result in more successful sales.

Color influences brand identity in a variety of ways. Consider the success Heinz EZ Squirt Blastin Green ketchup has had in the marketplace. More than 10 million bottles were sold in the first seven months following its introduction with Heinz factories working 24 hours a day seven days a week to keep up with demand. The result 23 million in sales attributable to Heinz green ketchup the highest sales increase in the brand s history . All because of a simple color change. Apple brought color into a marketplace where color had not been seen before. By introducing the colorful iMacs Apple was the first to say It doesn t have to be beige . The iMacs reinvigorated a brand that had suffered 1.8 billion of losses in two years.

Different brands are recognized world wide for their corporate colors. For example in soft drinks the first brand associated with red is usually the Coca Cola Company. Their branding is such a force in today s beverage market that red can almost be associated with Cola in general as several other major brands including Qibla and Tab among privately labeled grocery store brands all use red for advertising. In contrast to the Coca Cola red is Pepsi who markets their brand in blue. The corporate colors of these two brands create distinction and uniqueness between their respective products.

The present solution described herein provides systems and methods to coordinate and control the lighting of areas of a display unit in a manner desired based on the type brand and other characteristics of the product presented for display via the display unit. A lighting control system may control the characteristics of light emanating from one or more light sources to cause a reaction or visual effect from light reactive material of the product or display unit. In some cases the lighting control system may control the characteristics of light emanating from one or more light sources based on signals from detectors such as sensing any state or condition of the ambient environment.

In one aspect the present invention is related to a method for improving marketability of a product by controlling a characteristic of light emanating from a light source to an area of a display unit for presenting the product. The method provides a lighting control system which controls a light source emanating light toward an area of a display unit for presenting one or more products. The products include a light reactive portion reactive to one or more predetermined characteristics of light emitted by the light source. The lighting control system is configured to implement one or more characteristics of light emanating from the light source to correspond to the predetermined characteristics of the light reactive portion of the products. The lighting control system requests the light source to emanate light having the established characteristics onto the light reactive portions of products which react to the established characteristics of the emanating light.

In one embodiment a light reactive portion of the one or more products comprises the interior or the exterior surface of packaging. The surface may include a coating responsive to a predetermined wavelength characteristic of a light source. For example the coating may be a photoluminescent material which is responsive to an ultraviolet UV LED that may be used as a light source. Once the light source illuminates the coating the coating absorbs the LED s light and in response emits a light of its own via fluorescence. The light emitted from the coating may be of any color pigment as determined by the molecular properties of the coating material.

In another embodiment a lighting control system establishes and is configured to implement one or more characteristics of the light to be emanated from the light source to change an appearance of the object illuminated to a different color or a color having a different intensity. An example of this embodiment is a color rendering application in which red apples are stored in a refrigerator inside a supermarket. A lighting control system is configured such that a light source is instructed to illuminate the red apples with a light which makes the red apples appear more red than under a normal lighting. This will attract consumers attention and improve marketability of the red apples displayed.

In another embodiment the light reactive portion of the product includes a dye that is not visible at one or more wavelengths of light. For example the product may include a blue emitting organic photoluminescent material which is blue until illuminated by a UV light source of sufficient energy. In response to UV light the organic material emits a green light via the process of photoluminescence. In this example an element of a display system may be designed with a surface that has a material which remains blue until it is illuminated by a UV light and then the display element in response to the absorbed UV light turns green. The light reactive portion may include any type of marketing feature such as a logo of a product a product related message a brand name or a company name. In one embodiment the message may be provided in blue lettering and upon exposure to UV light the letters emit green light. The UV light source may be hidden from a viewer of the marketing feature.

In another aspect the present invention is related to a method for improving marketability of products by controlling characteristics of lights emanating from light sources to areas of the display unit for presenting the products. The method provides a lighting control system to control one or more light sources to emanate light toward areas of a display unit for presenting one or more products. A first light source emanates light toward an area of the display unit for presenting a first product. A first detector detects presence of at least one unit of the first product in the first area of the display unit. In response to the detection the lighting control system establishes one or more characteristics of light to emanate from the first light source to correspond to one or more predetermined characteristics of light identified for the first product. The lighting control system in response to the detection requests the first light source to emanate light having the established one or more characteristics.

In one embodiment the lighting control system controls a plurality of light sources emanating light into a plurality of areas responsive to one or more detectors. For example two sensors may be sensing the presence of two products in two given areas respectfully. Upon detecting a first product in an area a lighting control system commands the light source associated with the first area to emanate light having predetermined characteristics for the first product. A second detector may also detect presence of products in the second area. The lighting control unit in response to the detector commands the light source associated with a second area to emanate light having predetermined characteristics for the second product. In response to further detections by the first detector or second detector the lighting control system again changes the characteristics of the light emanating from the light sources to their respective areas. In addition the detector associated with the first area may sense the second product in the first area and sends a signal to the lighting control system which in response commands the light source to change the characteristics of the light emanating the first area to be based on the second product. In other embodiments the lighting control system changes the characteristics of the light emanating from the light sources responsive to a detector sensing any type of information from the environment.

Details of various other embodiments of the present invention are described in the detailed description below.

In the drawings like reference numbers generally indicate identical functionally similar and or structurally similar elements.

For purposes of reading the description of the various embodiments of the present invention below the following descriptions of the sections of the specification and their respective contents may be helpful 

The display unit also referred to as a display case may include any type and form of structure of any type of material for storing display presenting or otherwise providing for one or more products . In one embodiment the display unit comprises a refrigeration unit such as a home or a commercial refrigerator. In another embodiment the display unit comprises a shelf or a series of shelves for storage and display. In yet another embodiment the display unit comprises a counter or a group of counters such as counters in supermarket aisles. In some other embodiments the display unit may be a cooler. In yet another embodiment the display unit is a cart or a kiosk where the products are displayed. In another embodiment the display unit may be a portion of a store or of a mall where products or product related materials are placed on a display. In yet another embodiment the display unit may be an area on a trade show designated for display of brand products. In yet another embodiment the display unit may be an area outside of any enclosed space such a visible place next to a busy intersection a street corner or a square. Display unit may therefore be any type of environment enclosed or not enclosed where any products or product related materials may be displayed. As will be discussed in any portion of the display unit may include light reactive materials.

The display unit may be installed deployed or otherwise provided in any type and form of environment. In one embodiment the display unit is deployed in any kind of retail environment such as a store mall etc. In another embodiment the display unit may be deployed in retail environment such as a grocery store. In yet another embodiment the display unit may be deployed in a mall or a trade show. In some embodiments the display unit may be deployed in a museum. In other embodiments the display unit may be deployed in a home. In one embodiment the display unit may be deployed in a stadium. In yet some embodiments the display unit may be deployed in a movie theater. In further embodiments the display unit may be deployed on a busy street or a city or town square. In yet another embodiment the display unit may be deployed in a window of a store or a gallery. In yet one embodiment the display unit may be deployed next to a stage on an open space where a concert is being held.

The display unit may be designed or constructed to have any combination or arrangement of one or more areas or shelves . In one embodiment the display unit may be designed or constructed to include vertical or horizontal shelves. In another embodiment the display unit may be designed to have shelves of different sizes and shapes. In yet another embodiment the display unit may be designed specifically for a particular product being displayed. In one embodiment the display unit may be designed so to include grids. In some embodiments the display unit may be designed from different materials such as wood plastic glass metal etc. In other embodiments the display unit may be designed with a material different from the display structure. In another embodiment the display unit may be designed to include mirrors. In some other embodiments the display unit may be designed to include materials affecting trajectory of light such as a light diffusing material prism etc. In yet another embodiment the display unit may be designed to include materials that react to light. In yet another embodiment the display unit may be designed to include portions of the product related displayed material such as plates with logos objects comprising logos or company name product related graphics or other similar product or company related features. In a further embodiment the areas shelves may be designed to not include any of the display related features or graphics. As will be discussed in any portion of an area or shelf of the display unit may include light reactive materials.

The products A N generally referred to as product may include any type and form of product or product related material. The products A may include consumer tangible items consumables commercial marketing collateral etc. In one embodiment the product may be a food related product such as a vegetable a fruit or a package containing meats or precooked foods. In another embodiment the product may be clothes or shoes such as a specific brand. In yet another embodiment the product may be an electronics related product such as a TV set a DVD set or a surround sound system. In yet another embodiment the product may be a video game or a CD or a DVD for listening viewing or computer use. In some embodiments the product may be flowers stored in a flower store. In another embodiment the product may be a piece of furniture or a piece of art such as a picture. In still another embodiment the product may be an electronic gadget such as a cell phone blackberry or a music playing device. In yet another embodiment the product may be a product related material used for advertisement only. In further embodiment the product may include marketing collateral sales materials product demonstrators or marketing gadgets.

The detector may comprise any type and form of hardware software or combination of software and hardware for sensing detecting or monitoring any type of information including static or varying state conditions such as environmental temperature humidity pressure wind speed wind direction ambient light level motion speed proximity touch color metal fluid flow and acoustic amplitude. The detector may detect emission or radiation of any type and form of heat fumes chemical gas or other materials. In some embodiments the detector includes a light sensor used for detecting any wavelength and or frequency of light. In one embodiment the detector includes a sensor for detecting light within the display unit. In another embodiment the detector includes a sensor detecting ambient light. In other embodiments the detector includes a color sensor for sensing a color of one or more products and or the display unit or any portions thereof. In some embodiments the detector is a color temperature sensor for detecting color temperature of a light source chromatically by comparing with a predetermined heated black body radiation. A color sensor may use any type of color indexing to indicate color such as the index referred to as the Color Rendering Index measured on a 0 100 scale. In another case the detector may indicate or identify color temperature on any temperature scale such as degrees Kelvin. In some embodiments the detector detects or senses the light characteristics color and or color temperature emanating or produced by any of the light sources A N.

In other embodiments the detector includes a motion sensor for detecting movement of product within into or near the display unit. In some embodiments the detector senses motions outside the display unit such as movement of objects or persons. For example a detector may determine if there are any persons in vicinity of the display unit such as in order to send a signal to turn the system or a light source on. In one embodiment the detector includes a temperature sensor for providing a reading of ambient temperature or temperature related to the products display unit or the environment of the display unit . In still further embodiments the detector includes any type and form of sound or audio sensor for detecting audio signals or sound within or near the display unit or otherwise in the environment. In another embodiment the detector includes a radio frequency sensor. The detector may receive and or transmit any information obtained via radio frequency identification tags referred to as RFID tags. In one embodiment the detector includes any type and form of bar code reader for example to read any barcodes provided via a product or on the display unit . In some embodiments the detector includes a weight sensor for detecting weight of any object such as a product and or shelf area. In other embodiments the detector includes a pressure sensor for sensing any level of pressure such as pressure on a shelf of the display unit. In another embodiment the detector includes a touch sensor for sensing any type form and level of touch.

One or more detectors may be installed configured or provided to detect a condition outside of the display unit . The detector may comprise any of the types of detectors or sensors described with respect to detectors . As such the detector may sense detect or monitor any type of information including static or varying state conditions such as environmental temperature humidity pressure wind speed wind direction ambient light level motion speed proximity touch color metal fluid flow and acoustic amplitude. In some embodiments the detector is the same as detector . In other embodiments the detector is different than detector .

Any of the types of detectors and or may include any predetermined thresholds sensing levels or operating parameters for which to monitor and measure the condition for which the detector is designed and constructed. In one embodiment the detectors and or may include predetermined thresholds for which the detector communicates reports or otherwise provides a detection or information about a detection. In some embodiments the detectors and or may be configurable and or programmable dynamically statically or otherwise. For example the lighting control system or configuration tool may communicate with any detector or to establish provide or otherwise modify any operating parameters sensing levels or detection and or reporting thresholds. In another example a detector may be configured or programmed via any type and form of computing device in communication via a network to the detector such as over the Internet or otherwise attached locally to the detector.

In some embodiments the detector is attached to or connected to the display unit such as via any external surface of the unit . In other embodiments the detector is located inside the display unit but directed or intended to sense conditions external to the display unit . In still further embodiments the detector is located remote to the display unit but in communication with the lighting control system via a network or otherwise via a wired or wireless type of connection or communication channel. The detector may be located in the proximity of the display unit. In another embodiment the detector may located outside of the proximity of the display unit including any length of distance away. For example a detector located in one building or location may communicate conditions to the lighting control system in another building or location.

Any of the detectors and or may be of the same type of detector or different type of detectors. Any combination and number of detectors may be deployed in the display unit in proximity to the display unit and or external or remote to the display unit. In some embodiments a first area of the display unit may have a plurality of detectors of the same type or different type for providing detected information in association with the first area. In other embodiments a first detector or may be used for a first area and a second detector or for a second area. In another embodiment a first detector or may be used for a first product P and a second detector or for a second product P. In yet one embodiment a first detector or and second detector or may used for a single area or product. In some embodiments a first detector or may be sued for a plurality of areas and or a plurality of products. In still further embodiments a plurality of detectors and or may be used for a predetermined area and or predetermined product.

A light source A N LED A N also referred to as LED and in some embodiments LED may comprise any type and form of device material or product capable of producing or emanating light. In one embodiment the light source may be a semiconductor light emitting device. In another embodiment the light source may be a light bulb or a broadband lamp. In some embodiments the light source may be a black light. In other embodiments the light source may be a hollow cathode lamp. In another embodiment the light source may be a neon or argon lamp. In another embodiment the light source may be a plasma lamp. In another embodiment the light source may be a xenon flash lamp. In another embodiment the light source may be a mercury lamp. In one embodiment the light source may be a metal halide lamp. In some embodiments the light source may be a sulfur lamp. In other embodiments the light source may be a laser or a laser diode. In yet another embodiment the light source may be an OLED PHOLED QDLED or any other variation of organic material containing light emitting device. In other embodiment the light source may be a monochromatic light source. In another embodiment the light source may be a polychromatic light source. In one embodiment the light source may be a light source emitting light partially in the spectral range of ultraviolet light. In some embodiments the light source may be a light source emitting light partially in the spectral range of visible light. In other embodiments the light source may be a light source partially emitting light in the spectral range of the infra red light. In one embodiment the light source may include a filter to control the spectral range of the light emitted. In another embodiment the light source may include a light guide. In another embodiment the light source may include a mirror. In yet another embodiment the light source may include a light reactive material affecting the light emitted such as a polarizer or a prism. In some embodiments the light source may be a coherent light source. In other embodiments the light source may be an incoherent light source.

In some embodiments of an LED as light source the LED is any light emitting device comprising one or more light sources and capable of providing light to the products presented in an Area such as Area A in . In other embodiments the LED is a semiconductor light emitting diode producing an incoherent light of any given spectral or power range. In another embodiment the light source is a UV emitting source used for illuminating the portion of the product having any luminescent or light reactive material which upon being illuminated by a light source absorbs the light from the source and in response produces its own light in return. In yet another embodiment LED is a light source used for color rendering of the fruits vegetables meats or other products in the display where light is emitted by the LED to slightly alter the color of the product as perceived by the human eye. In another embodiment an array of light sources are used to vary the wavelength and intensity of the light emitted. In yet another embodiment the light source is a monochromatic light source or LED emitting only a single wavelength of light. In yet another embodiment LED may be a tunable light source emitting a light of varying spectral range. In one embodiment the LED may be a broadband light utilizing a filter for narrowing down the light spectral range. The LED may be any commercially available or custom made light source emitting light of any spectral or power range any constant output or varying intensity and any type of coherent or incoherent light. In another embodiment the LED also has a light guide through which the light is delivered to the products.

In some other embodiments the light source may create all of the basic colors including variations there of by only selecting particular wavelengths a process also known as binning. For example Philips Lumileds Lighting Company categorizes blue LEDs as emitting wavelengths between 460 nm and 490 nm Ref. AB21 Luxeon Product Binning and Labeling . However they separate this 30 nm difference in wavelengths into different bins varying by 5 nm each. The light output of the LEDs throughout these different bins vary to the human eye even though they are all characterized as blue LEDs. For example bin which is 460 465 nm will appear a very deep blue however bin which is 485 490 will appear a very bluish green which some people might describe as aqua.

In some embodiments binning is not used to control color in LED systems. Any hue or color may be created by mixing a group of primary colors such as for example red green and blue. The ability of the light emitting devices to be controlled to the accuracy of 5 nm wavelength range allows them to create vibrant colors. In yet other embodiments the varying an object s appearance of color pigments to human eye as the result of illumination using a specific spectral range of light is utilized. For example an object of a yellow pigment will appear orange to a human eye orange when illuminated by purple light. In another example a blue pigment will appear black to human eye when illuminated by orange light. In yet another example an object of a red pigment when illuminated by a red light will be perceived by human eye as a lot more red.

Commercial refrigeration units are utilized all over the world and branded on the outside in addition to the product within. The branding on the outside is utilized to attract customers who are not in viewable range of the inside of the cooler. The lighting system disclosed herein utilizes light of a configurable wavelength i.e. color to not only to attract customers to the refrigeration unit but to reveal its contents inside. The system allows the seller or vendor to select a particular color of light for the interior of the case which will be additive to the branding of the contents on the inside. For example a soda manufacturer could coat or label a product with a message that is enhanced under blue light. The enhancement of the message as well as the new light of the enclosure as opposed to the usual cool white will attract customers to the product. However once the product is removed from the enclosure the message enhanced under the blue light may fade revealing a new message on the product that was subtractive under the blue light.

In other embodiments a blue light is used to activate fluorescent dyes that are normally not visible in normal light. In this application the system may be installed with a particular blue wavelength specified by the seller of the merchandise inside of the cooler. The seller may print their packaging frozen food bottles cans etc. with a dye which is activated by the blue light. When the enclosure lighting is powered on the seller s message will be displayed vibrantly to the consumer. In another embodiment illumination properties of the lighting system are configurable comprising a red green and blue system and are capable of digitally generating particular colors depending on the merchandise being sold. Another embodiment includes active and passive areas which are defined within the display unit depending upon the specific product displayed. In this embodiment an area is defined passive if the wavelength of the light illuminating the product is configured independently from the product actually displayed in the enclosure. An area is also defined active if a product detected by the system is placed within and the LCS in response generates a specific brand enhancing light based upon the detected product. Detector circuits may include a detector module operable in conjunction with the LCS to determine the presence of a specific product in response to presence of the product detected issue a series of commands to emit the light having characteristics desirable to the product detected.

The light sources may be arranged organized positioned located orientated or placed to emanate light in any suitable or desired manner and direction towards areas of the display unit and or products or any portions thereof. In some embodiments a light source is oriented to direct light towards an entire area. In other embodiments a light source is oriented to direct light towards a portion of an area. In one embodiment a light source is oriented to direct light towards multiple areas. In another embodiment a light source is oriented to direct light towards a set of one or more products. In some cases the light source may be oriented to direct light towards a predetermined portion of a product such as the middle top or bottom portion of a product. In other cases the light source may be oriented to direct light towards the first product in a set of products. In still further embodiments multiple light sources may be oriented to direct lights towards the same product or area or portion thereof.

Light emanating from the light source is identified as in the . For example the light A emitted by the LED A illuminate the Area A in which the products P are being displayed. In some embodiments the light emitted by the LED has a light spectrum which is higher energy than the visible light such as UV light for example. In other embodiments the light is any light in the visible range spectrum. In one embodiment the light comprises infrared light. In some embodiments the light may have a portion of light spectrum in the UV range and another portion at least partially in the visible range. In yet some other embodiments the light has a spectrum which is at least partially in the visible range and partially in the infrared range. Light emitted by the light source may be pulsed or varying in intensity or continuous and or without any interruption in emission. In cases in which light is pulsed the light may be periodically or non periodically pulsed. The pulsing of the light may be predictable or random. The spectral range of the light emitted may vary from a narrow spectral range such as a monochromatic light for example light from a single mode laser or a single mode laser diode to a wide band white light such as from a white light source covering a spectral range of hundreds of nanometers. In some embodiments the light emitted from the light source is a coherent light such as the light from a single mode laser source. In other embodiments the light emitted from the light source is a can incoherent light such as from a semiconductor light emitting device. In another embodiment the display unit may be a refrigerator comprising front glass panel or door that allows the product and the contents of the light reactive material of the product to be visible from outside the display unit.

Although the display unit is illustrated with a plurality of areas detectors products and light sources the display unit may include any combination of areas products light sources and or detectors. In some cases the display unit may not include any detectors. In another embodiment the display unit may include a single light source. In one embodiment a display unit may include a plurality of detectors associated with a single area or a plurality of areas. In another embodiment a display unit may include a plurality of light sources associated with a single area or plurality of areas. In yet another embodiment a display unit may include a plurality of products displayed in a single area. In another embodiment a display unit may include a plurality of areas associated with a single detector. In one embodiment a display unit may include a plurality of light sources responsive to a single detector. In another embodiment a display unit may include a plurality of areas associated with a single or a plurality of detectors. In some embodiments a display unit may include a plurality of areas associated with either a single or plurality of products. In one embodiment a display unit may include a plurality of detectors associated with either a single or plurality of products. In other embodiments a display unit may include a plurality of light sources illuminating a single or a plurality of products. In another embodiment a display unit may include a plurality of areas illuminated by either a single or a plurality of light sources. In yet another embodiment a display unit may include a plurality detectors associated with either a single or a plurality of light sources. In some embodiments a display unit may include a plurality of products illuminated by either a single or a plurality of light sources. A display unit may include any number of areas detectors products and light sources associated with each other in any number of ways and combinations.

Still referring to the lighting control system may include software hardware or any combination of software and hardware for controlling managing or otherwise directing the operation and or performance of one or more light sources A N. The lighting control system may include any type and form of logic operations or functions embodied in executable instructions or in any type and form of digital and or analog circuitry for performing any of the operations described herein. The lighting control system may include any type and form of executable instructions including an application program library process service task or thread. In one embodiment the lighting control system provides includes and or controls power to any of the light sources and or detectors or .

The lighting control system may include logic functions or operations to establish determine adapt coordinate manage and or control any characteristics of light produced outputted provided or otherwise emanating from one or more light sources A N such as LEDs. In one embodiment the lighting control system establishes or controls a light source to produce or emanate a light of a predetermined wavelength. In another embodiment the lighting control system directs the light source to emanate a light having a wavelength in a predetermined range. In some embodiments the lighting control system directs the light source to emanate a light at a predetermined frequency or within a predetermined frequency range. In other embodiments the lighting control system adjusts one or more characteristics of the light to be emanated or emanating from the light source . In yet further embodiments the lighting control system establishes or adjusts the color and or color temperature of the light to emanate from the light source. For example the color may be established or adjusted based on a color rendering index or value thereof. In another example the color temperate may be established or adjusted based on a temperature value such as via the Kelvin scale.

For example in some embodiments responsive to information from any one or more detectors the lighting control system establishes or adjusts one or more characteristics of the light to be emanated or emanating from a light source . In other embodiments responsive to information communicated via a network the lighting control system establishes or adjusts one or more characteristics of the light to be emanated or emanating from a light source . In another embodiment the lighting control system establishes or adjusts one or more characteristics of the light to be emanated or emanating from a light source based on the display unit and or the products .

The lighting control system may include any type and form of computing device such as any of the embodiments or portions of the embodiments of the computing device described below in conjunction with . In some embodiments the lighting control system includes a central processing unit CPU a memory unit a power supply and a current driving circuitry related to powering and controlling LEDs as light source such as a LED A. In another embodiment the lighting control system comprises a software application controlling the logic unit for managing the circuitry which powers up and controls an array of LEDs such as the light sources A through N as depicted in . In yet another embodiment a lighting control system is a module comprising a CPU a memory and a digital logic circuit subsystem associated with control and management of the LEDs such as an LED A.

The lighting control system may be a commercial off the shelf COTS system. In one embodiment the lighting control system may be a customized or proprietary system. In some embodiments the lighting control systems includes any of the lighting control systems products or modules manufactured or provided by Integrated Illumination Systems Inc. referred to as I2Systems of Morris Conn. An example of one embodiment of a lighting control system is described in conjunction with below. In this embodiment a lighting control system includes user interface modules and LED control modules to control and drive one or more LEDs as lights sources.

A command panel also sometime referred to as configuration tool may include software hardware or any combination of software and hardware to configure or control any portion of the system including the lighting control system light source and or detectors . In some embodiments the command panel or configuration tool is deployed on any type and form of computing device as described in . The command panel may include any type and form of user interface to provide configuration instructions or commands to setup direct or change operation and or performance of the system. In one embodiment the command panel may include a graphical user interface. In another embodiment the command panel may include any type and form of buttons switches or other physical elements by which a user may select adjust or change operation of the system. In another embodiment the command panel may comprise a touch screen for selecting or manipulating graphical user interface elements to control or manage the system. As further described in an embodiment of the lighting control system in a configuration tool may be used to program and download instructions commands or directives to any portion of the lighting control system . For example the configuration tool may provide a user interface for a user to configure and program the system to operate in accordance with any of the operations described herein

The lighting control system control panel and or any of the detectors and may communicate via any type and form of network . The network may be any type and or form of network and may include any of the following a point to point network a broadcast network a wide area network a local area network a telecommunications network a data communication network a computer network an ATM Asynchronous Transfer Mode network a SONET Synchronous Optical Network network a SDH Synchronous Digital Hierarchy network a wireless network and a wireline network. In some embodiments the network may comprise a wireless link such as an infrared channel or satellite band. The topology of the network may be a bus star or ring network topology. The network and network topology may be of any such network or network topology as known to those ordinarily skilled in the art capable of supporting the operations described herein.

Although shows a network connected to the lighting control system any of the control panel light sources and detectors may be on the same network or a different network not shown . Any of the detectors may communicate via a network to the lighting control system and or control panel . The networks and may be the same type of network or different types of networks. The network may be a local area network LAN such as a company Intranet a metropolitan area network MAN or a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or the World Wide Web. The networks may be a private or public network. In one embodiment network may be a private network and network may be a public network. In some embodiments network may be a private network and network a public network. In another embodiment networks may be private networks.

In view of the system presented in in some embodiments the system represents a lighting system for the display of products in a variety of applications for the purposes of marketing and advertisement. The display unit presents the products or product related material within the light controlled environment. In some embodiments the product is inside an enclosed area but may be visible to a consumer inside or outside the display unit. The display unit may include any number of areas each comprising controlled lighting provided via the light source associated with the area tailored to the display needs of the given products within the area while being centrally controlled a lighting control system. The advantage this system provides is an application solution for marketing and advertisement of products in any type of environment which may enhance or increase marketability of a brand name or a product related feature ranging from beverages inside freezers foods consumables clothes shoes appliances and more.

Referring now to an illustration of portions of a product and display unit having light reactive materials is depicted. In brief overview any one or more products may have light reactive material . The light reactive material may be on any portion of the product such as the exterior and or interface surface of the product . In some cases the product may include lettering messaging or other visual elements such as trademark symbol or a company name comprising the light reactive material . Likewise any portion of the display unit such as a shelf may include light reactive material . The display unit may include any visual elements such as lettering or messaging with light reactive materials . Based on the type form design or construction the light reactive material may respond or react to one or more characteristics of light such as wavelength frequency or intensity emanating from a light source such as an LED.

The light reactive material may comprise any type and form of material that has a reaction response change change in appearance or effect from exposure to light having predetermined characteristics. In one embodiment the light reactive material may be organic and may emit any type of light in response to absorption of light . For example a thin film organic light reactive material having photoluminescent characteristics may absorb a light and in response emit a light whose characteristics are determined by molecular specifications of the light reactive material. In another embodiment the light reactive material may be inorganic and may emit any type of light in response to absorption of light . For example a quantum dot including inorganic materials may absorb a light and in response emit a light whose characteristics are determined by the molecular specifications comprising the quantum dot and by the size of the quantum dot. In another embodiment a light reactive material may be a surface of an object illuminated by the light with characteristics tailored for color rendering of the object. For example a red apple displayed in a refrigerator in a supermarket may be illuminated by a light whose color temperature is tailored such that it makes the red apple appear more red to the consumer. The surface of the red apple as a result of the color rendering by the light source is changing its appearance and is therefore a light reactive material. In yet another embodiment a light reactive material may be an object illuminated by a light source for the purpose of cleansing the object. For example a vegetable is illuminated by an ultraviolet light source for the purpose of killing bacteria on the vegetable the surface of the vegetable being the light reactive material. In yet another embodiment a vegetable is illuminated by a light source with an enhanced 590 nm wavelength peak for the purpose of promoting the process of photosynthesis within the vegetable the vegetable being the light reactive material.

Light reactive material may be any material that undergoes or expresses any type of reaction or change within the light reactive material on the surface of the light reactive material or in the appearance of the light reactive material as a response to the light emanating onto it. In one embodiment the light reactive material may be a fruit. In another embodiment the light reactive material may be a vegetable. In some other embodiment the light reactive material may be any organic material. In one embodiment the light reactive material may be any inorganic material. In some embodiments the light reactive material may be a metal. In other embodiments the light reactive material may be a product. In another embodiment the light reactive material may be any material manifesting reflectance of light. In one embodiment the light reactive material may be a metal. In yet another embodiment the light reactive material may be a wood. In some embodiments the light reactive material may be a photoluminescent material. In other embodiments the light reactive material may be a fluorescent material. In yet other embodiments the light reactive material may be a phosphorescent material. In some embodiments the light reactive material may be a polymer. In some embodiments the light reactive material may be a dye. In yet another embodiment the light reactive material may be a quantum dot. In some other embodiment the light reactive material may be an organic thin film. In another embodiment the light reactive material may be a surface of a product package. In yet another embodiment the light reactive material may be a glass. In still another embodiment the light reactive material may be a semiconductor. In a further embodiment the light reactive material may be an insulator. In some other embodiments the light reactive material may be a plastic. In still another embodiment the light reactive material may be a material reflecting light.

Light reactive material may comprise any portion of a product product related materials or a display unit. In one embodiment an exterior surface of the product may comprise a light reactive material. In another embodiment an interior surface of the product may comprise a light reactive material. In some embodiments a label may comprise a light reactive material. In yet other embodiments a trademark may comprise a light reactive material. In yet another embodiment a barcode may comprise a light reactive material. In still another embodiment product related graphics or features may comprise a light reactive material. In yet some other embodiment a package of a product may comprise a light reactive material. In yet another embodiment a company name may comprise a light reactive material. In some embodiment a product related phrase or a feature may comprise a light reactive material. In some other embodiment a product name or a product logo may comprise a light reactive material. In yet another embodiment company related graphics may comprise a light reactive material. In still another embodiment a message associated with a company or a product may comprise a light reactive material. In a further embodiment a name may comprise a light reactive material. In yet other embodiments a symbol may comprise a light reactive material. In some other embodiments a vegetable may comprise a light reactive material. In one embodiment a fruit may comprise a light reactive material. In another embodiment an article of food may comprise a light reactive material. In yet another embodiment a flower may comprise a light reactive material. In still another embodiment a tree may comprise a light reactive material. In yet another embodiment a plant may comprise a light reactive material. In a further embodiment a stone may comprise a light reactive material.

Light reactive material may comprise any portion of a display unit including any portions of subcomponents associated with the display unit. In one embodiment the light reactive material may comprise a portion of an area. In another embodiment the light reactive material may comprise graphics or symbols on the windows of the display unit. In yet another embodiment the light reactive material may comprise a portion of a floor of the display unit. In one embodiment the light reactive material may comprise a portion of a top of the display unit. In some other embodiment the light reactive material may comprise a portion of a ceiling of the display unit. In yet another embodiment the light reactive material may comprise a portion of a bottom of the display unit. In still another embodiment the light reactive material may comprise a portion of a door handle of the display unit. In yet a further embodiment the light reactive material may comprise a portion of a wall of the display unit. In yet another embodiment the light reactive material may comprise a portion of a window of the display unit.

In one embodiment the light reactive material may exhibit photoluminescence as a result of the light illuminating the light reactive material. In another embodiment the light reactive material may exhibit fluorescence as a result of the light illuminating the light reactive material. In yet another embodiment the light reactive material may exhibit a change in color as a result of the light illuminating the light reactive material. In some other embodiment the light reactive material may exhibit a change in the appearance of color as a result of the light illuminating the light reactive material. In yet another embodiment the light reactive material may exhibit a change in the amount of bacteria associated with the material as a result of the light illuminating the light reactive material. In another embodiment the light reactive material may exhibit a change in characteristics as a result of the light illuminating the light reactive material. In yet another embodiment the light reactive material may exhibit a change in ingredients as a result of the light illuminating the light reactive material. In some embodiments color rendering is accomplished by illuminating the surface of a product and altering the color of the product as perceived by the human eye where the light reactive material is the surface of a product given its change in color perceived. In some other embodiments the light source may be biased or configured to deliver any specific wavelength of light to the plants such as vegetables fruits flowers etc. in order to promote photosynthesis in the plants or increase the plants levels of ingredients such as vitamins iron calcium magnesium potassium niacin etc while being illuminated. In yet other embodiments the light may be a light shifting color to create a visual effect such as to emphasize a product or capture the attention of the consumer.

Referring now to an illustration of electronic states of molecules of light reactive materials is depicted. represents a physical phenomenon involving fluorescent and phosphorescent emission from the light reactive materials such as the light reactive material in this illustration. An embodiment of physical properties of the light reactive materials such as the properties depicted in this illustration where a UV source invisible to a human eye may be used to excite the molecules of the light reactive material to emit the light capturing the attention of the consumer are described. The illustration shows a light source illuminating a light reactive material and as a result of illumination by the light source onto the light reactive material a photoluminescence phenomenon is manifested. A diagram used to explain the photoluminescence phenomenon of a light reactive material the Jablonski diagram depicts electronic states of a molecule exhibiting fluorescence or phosphorescence and the transitions associated with them. The Jablonski diagram depicts electronic states of a molecule along with radiating and non radiating transitions occurring between the electronic states where the radiating transitions result in the light emitted from the molecule itself.

The thicker lines within the diagram are marked S0 S1 and S2 and correspond to singlet electronic states while the T1 line corresponds to a triplet electronic state. Triplet states are metastable states of the molecule whose radiative emission is phosphorescent while the singlet state radiation is fluorescent. The distance between the ground S0 state and the excited states above corresponds to the difference in energy between the two states. Thinner lines in the states correspond to the vibrational levels. The electronic energy levels of excited triplet states are normally lower than the electronic energy levels of excited singlet states of the same molecule.

Full bolded arrows up in the diagram in going from S0 ground state up to S1 state or above correspond to the energies of photons from the light source absorbed by the molecules of the light reactive material . The arrow lengths represent energies of the photons of light absorbed in comparison to the S1 S2 and T1 energy levels. When the energies of the photons absorbed exceed the S1 electronic state level a molecule gets excited from a ground state to an excited state enabling radiative or non radiative transitions down to the ground state.

Dashed arrows on the diagram in represent internal conversion or the non radiative conversion. Non radiative conversions use vibrational level to release some or all of the energy absorbed by the photon often creating heat in the system. The most left arrow on the graph represents a case where an excited molecule may have a complete non radiative transition from the S1 to the S0 via vibrational levels. In other cases non radiative transition between vibrational states in between excited singlet states such as S1 or S2 leads to the extra energy being dissipated resulting in the radiative transition where a photon of light is emitted from the molecule the photon emitted having the energy and thus the wavelength associated with the difference in energies between the S0 and S1 levels.

Thinner full arrows up going from S1 state to S0 or to vibrational states slightly above S0 represent fluorescent radiative emission where a photon of light is emitted as the transition from S1 to S0 occurs. The photon energy and wavelength associated with fluorescent emission are determined by the distance between the transitioned energy levels during the transitional displacement. The wavy arrows originating from the arrow lines associated with fluorescent emission represent the photons emitted for each of the fluorescent transitions.

Inter system crossing or inter system non radiative transition occurs between the singlet and triplet states and requires an interaction leading to a change of an electronic spin. As a result of inter system crossing a phosphorescent radiative emission occurs and it is a slower process than a fluorescent radiative emission. The thinner full arrows going up from T1 electronic state line to S0 ground state or the vibrational levels slightly above S0 represent the phosphorescent radiative emission transitions. Wavy arrows from these lines represent the photons of light emitted as the result of the phosphorescent emission.

Referring now to an embodiment of a lighting control system is depicted. In brief overview a lighting control system includes one or more user interface modules UIMs for controlling and managing one or more LED control modules LCMs A N generally referred to as LCM . Each LED control module in turn may drive control or manage an LED driver A N generally referred to as LED driver and a LED source A N generally referred to as LED source . One or more LCMs A LED Driver A and LEDmay form a lighting group A or lighting sub network. A configuration tool CSP may be used to configure any of the logic function or operations of the UIM and or LCM .

The lighting control system sometimes referred to as lighting system may include a plurality of network enabled devices such as a network enabled UIM communicating via a network with one or more network enabled LCMs . As will be described in further detail below each of these network enabled devices may have a network address for communicating with each other. Each of the network enabled UIMs and LCMs A N may communicate via a wired and or wireless network using any type and form of protocol. In some embodiments the UIM and LCMs communicate over an Internet Protocol or Ethernet based network. In various embodiments the lighting system may be considered to include those lighting related devices in communication with each other to perform any of the functionality and operations described herein. As such in some embodiments the lighting system includes the UIM and one or more LCMs A N. In other embodiments the lighting system includes the UIM and the LCM and any LED drivers A N and LEDs A N controlled and managed by the LCM and or UIM. In yet another embodiment the lighting system includes the CSP in communication with the UIM . In further embodiments the lighting system includes the UIM the CSP and any LCMs A N.

In the lighting system the UIM provides various interfaces such as analog or digital interfaces that may be configured to perform tasks such as any lighting related task described herein. The UIM receives input from these interfaces that influences or controls output to the LCM which in turn controls and drives the LED drivers and LED source . A first UIM may communicate via a network with and manage a plurality of LCMs A N. In some embodiments a plurality of UIMs A N may be used to communicate with and manage a plurality of LCMs A N. In other embodiments a first UIM A and a second UIM B may both communicate with and or manage the same LCM or set of LCMs A N. In one embodiment a UIM may be used to communicate and manage a lighting group .

The UIM may also provide status feedback or any other information about the operation and performance of the lighting system or any portion thereof such as a specific LCM or LED driver. For example the UIM may present a web page via the network to a user to determine the status of various operational aspects of the lighting system . The UIM may include any monitoring and or logging agents to detect and capture any activity of the operations and performance of the lighting system or any portion thereof. In one embodiment the UIM provides information on the status of the network between the UIM and any LCMs . In another embodiment the UIM provides information on the status of an LCM .

The LCM provides a mechanism and means to interface digital controls and logic to a typical or otherwise dumb LED fixture . The LCM receives input commands or instructions from the UIM and or CSP with respect to controlling managing driving or otherwise directing the operation of the LED driver and corresponding LED source . The LCM provides any type and form of output to transmit signals to a corresponding LED driver . The LCM may include any type and form of communication interface analog and or digital to communicate with an LED driver . In some embodiments the LCM may communicate with the LED driver via any type and form of software communication interface such as an application programming interface API . In other embodiments the LCM may communicate with the LED driver using any type and form of hardware interface.

An LCM may communicate with one or more LED drivers . In some embodiments a first LCM A communicates with a first LED driver A and a second LCM B communicates with a second LED driver B and a third LCM C communicates with a third LED driver C and so on. In other embodiments a first LCM B communicates with a first LED driver A and a second LED driver B. In yet another embodiment a first LCM A and a second LCM B are both used to communicate with one or more LED drivers . In some cases a second LCM B may be used concurrently with a first LCM A for communicating with an LED driver . In other cases the second LCM may used as backup or a redundant LCM to the first LCM A for communicating with one or more LED drivers .

The LED driver may include any type of logic function or operation for controlling the current and or power delivered to an LED source . The LED driver may include software hardware or any combination of software and hardware. In various embodiments the LED driver functions as an electronically controlled current source providing a predetermined amount of current to one or more attached LED lighting modules in response to received control signals. In one embodiment the LED driver acts as or provides a constant current power supply configured to provide a set current value to the LEDs despite the input voltage to the luminaire. For example an Advance Transformer LED driver may take a 120 VAC input and provide a 350 mA constant current output whereas the current is controlled and the voltage is stepped down a typical buck topology. In some cases the LED driver may boost voltages in the case where the input voltage is lower than the forward voltage of the LEDs to be powered. In one case the LED driver may be configured as a buck boost whereas the input voltage may be stepped up or stepped down as required. In some embodiments these LED Drivers offer dimming via a PWM pulse width modulated signal or analog control voltages including 0 to 10V control voltages. In other cases the LED driver may pulse the power input to the LED source on and off in order to adjust the intensity of the LED source .

The LED driver may include a voltage controlled current source a current controlled current source a power MOSFET Metal Oxide Semiconductor Field Effect Transistor power amplifiers power transistors or high current op amps as well as resistive capacitive and switching elements. In some embodiments the LED driver includes current limiting circuit elements at its output so that current levels in excess of an LED s maximum rated value may not be exceeded. The driver may include one or more input ports e.g. a signal control receiving port and an override control port and one or more output ports e.g. one or multiple signal output ports a driver status port and one or more current sensing ports. The LED driver may receive and send pulse width modulated signals e.g. square wave signals with variable duty cycle. The input ports of the LED driver may include over voltage protection and surge protection to prevent damage by transient electrical fluctuations at its input ports.

In some embodiments the LED driver may be an ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit or a commercially produced off the shelf LED driver chip. The driver may be packaged in a housing as a separate element of the lighting system or may be incorporated into another element of the network or lighting group e.g. into an LCM A or into an LED lighting assembly A. As an ASIC or commercially available driver chip the driver may be incorporated onto a printed circuit board PCB for custom design or original equipment manufacturing circuit applications. The LED driver may have an external power supply which powers internal circuitry in the driver and provides a source of amperage for the attached LEDs . The external power supply may be dedicated to the LED driver or shared with another element in the lighting system e.g. an LCM.

In one embodiment a first LED driver communicates with or controls a single LED source . In other embodiments a first LED driver A communicates with or controls a plurality of LED sources A N. In other embodiments a first LED driver A communicates with or controls a first LED source A while a second LED driver B communicates with or controls a plurality of LED sources B N.

Examples of commercially available LED drivers include an ADM8845 series LED driver chip providing up to 30 mA current and connections for six LEDs or an AD8240 series chip which must be used with an external transistor to provide sufficient drive current. Both of these driver chips are available from Analog Devices Incorporated of Norwood Mass. Other similar LED driver chips include an FAN5607 LED driver chip available from Fairchild Semiconductor Corporation of South Portland Me. an STP16CP596 LED driver chip available from STMicroelectronics of Lexington Mass. or an LM27952 driver chip available from National Semiconductor Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. An example of a packaged LED driver includes an LEDD1 driver available from Thorlabs of Newton N.J. or a SmartDriver VDX driver available from i2Systems of Morris Conn.

The LED light source may include any type and form of Lighting Emitting Diode LED based luminaire or luminaire source such as an LED lighting assembly. In some embodiments the LED may comprise one or more semiconductor p n junction light emitting diodes. The LED assembly may be constructed designed or adapted to receive current from a LED driver and direct the current across the one or more p n junctions in forward bias. In various embodiments the brightness or intensity of light output from a diode is substantially proportionally related to the amount of current flowing across the p n junction. The LED source may include resistors to limit current flow across the one or more diodes and may include heat sinks in thermal contact with the diodes so as to dissipate from the diodes. Optical elements such as lenses or diffusers may be placed over the LEDs to concentrate or disperse emitted light. Wavelength shifting methods such as thin films containing organic fluorescent molecules or inorganic phosphorescent molecules may be included with the diodes to absorb and re emit radiation at wavelengths shifted from the LED s natural emission spectrum. The LED source may include one or more diodes each emitting radiation at distinct wavelengths e.g. red amber green and blue. In other embodiments the LEDs may comprise organic light emitting devices OLEDs or phosphorescent light emitting devices PHOLEDs or a combination of LEDs OLEDs and PHOLEDs. In some embodiments the LEDs within an assembly may be mounted on an electromechanically moveable element so that the direction of light output from the LED assembly may be controlled. In yet other embodiments an LED driver may be incorporated within the LED lighting assembly .

Examples of commercially available LED lighting assemblies or LEDs include the VML lighting assembly series the Apeiron SDi Tri Light the V Line series lighting assemblies all available from i2Systems of Morris Conn. Additional examples include the Lumispot or LinkLED lighting assemblies available from Dialight Corporation of Farmingdale N.J. or the Titan LED Light Engines available from Lamina of Westamptom N.J. Alternatively examples of individual LEDs include the ASMT series light sources available from Avago Technologies of Andover Mass.

Although shows a network and network generally referred to as network s between the UIM and the LCMs or CSP the UIM LCMs and or CSP may be on the same network . The networks and may be the same type of network or different types of networks. The network may be a local area network LAN such as a company Intranet a metropolitan area network MAN or a wide area network WAN such as the Internet or the World Wide Web. The networks may be a private or public network. In one embodiment network or network may be a private network and network may be a public network. In some embodiments network may be a private network and network a public network. In another embodiment networks may be private networks.

The configuration tool or control panel and the lighting control system or any portion thereof may be deployed as and or executed on any type and form of computing device such as a computer network device or appliance capable of communicating on any type and form of network and performing the operations described herein. In some embodiments any of the functionality operations or logic of the UIM LCM LED Driver and or LED described herein may be supported by configured via performed by or deployed on a computing device . In other embodiments any portion of the UIM LCM LED Driver and or LED may include or comprise any portion of the computing device described below.

The central processing unit is any logic circuitry that responds to and processes instructions fetched from the main memory unit . In many embodiments the central processing unit is provided by a microprocessor unit such as those manufactured by Intel Corporation of Mountain View Calif. those manufactured by Motorola Corporation of Schaumburg Ill. those manufactured by Transmeta Corporation of Santa Clara Calif. the RS 6000 processor those manufactured by International Business Machines of White Plains N.Y. or those manufactured by Advanced Micro Devices of Sunnyvale Calif. The computing device may be based on any of these processors or any other processor capable of operating as described herein.

Main memory unit may be one or more memory chips capable of storing data and allowing any storage location to be directly accessed by the microprocessor such as Static random access memory SRAM Burst SRAM or SynchBurst SRAM BSRAM Dynamic random access memory DRAM Fast Page Mode DRAM FPM DRAM Enhanced DRAM EDRAM Extended Data Output RAM EDO RAM Extended Data Output DRAM EDO DRAM Burst Extended Data Output DRAM BEDO DRAM Enhanced DRAM EDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM JEDEC SRAM PC100 SDRAM Double Data Rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM Enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM SyncLink DRAM SLDRAM Direct Rambus DRAM DRDRAM or Ferroelectric RAM FRAM . The main memory may be based on any of the above described memory chips or any other available memory chips capable of operating as described herein. In the embodiment shown in the processor communicates with main memory via a system bus described in more detail below . depicts an embodiment of a computing device in which the processor communicates directly with main memory via a memory port . For example in the main memory may be DRDRAM.

The computing device may support any suitable installation device such as a floppy disk drive for receiving floppy disks such as 3.5 inch 5.25 inch disks or ZIP disks a CD ROM drive a CD R RW drive a DVD ROM drive tape drives of various formats USB device hard drive or any other device suitable for installing software and programs such as the configuration tool or portion thereof. The computing device may further comprise a storage device such as one or more hard disk drives or redundant arrays of independent disks for storing an operating system and other related software and for storing application software programs such as any program related to the control panel . Optionally any of the installation devices could also be used as the storage device . Additionally the operating system and the software can be run from a bootable medium for example a bootable CD such as KNOPPIX a bootable CD for GNU Linux that is available as a GNU Linux distribution from knoppix.net.

Furthermore the computing device may include a network interface to interface to a Local Area Network LAN Wide Area Network WAN or the Internet through a variety of connections including but not limited to standard telephone lines LAN or WAN links e.g. 802.11 T1 T3 56 kb X.25 broadband connections e.g. ISDN Frame Relay ATM wireless connections or some combination of any or all of the above. The network interface may comprise a built in network adapter network interface card PCMCIA network card card bus network adapter wireless network adapter USB network adapter modem or any other device suitable for interfacing the computing device to any type of network capable of communication and performing the operations described herein.

A wide variety of I O devices may be present in the computing device . Input devices include keyboards mice trackpads trackballs microphones and drawing tablets. Output devices include video displays speakers inkjet printers laser printers and dye sublimation printers. The I O devices may be controlled by an I O controller as shown in . The I O controller may control one or more I O devices such as a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or optical pen. Furthermore an I O device may also provide storage and or an installation medium for the computing device . In still other embodiments the computing device may provide USB connections to receive handheld USB storage devices such as the USB Flash Drive line of devices manufactured by Twintech Industry Inc. of Los Alamitos Calif.

In some embodiments the computing device may comprise or be connected to multiple display devices which each may be of the same or different type and or form. As such any of the I O devices and or the I O controller may comprise any type and or form of suitable hardware software or combination of hardware and software to support enable or provide for the connection and use of multiple display devices by the computing device . For example the computing device may include any type and or form of video adapter video card driver and or library to interface communicate connect or otherwise use the display devices In one embodiment a video adapter may comprise multiple connectors to interface to multiple display devices In other embodiments the computing device may include multiple video adapters with each video adapter connected to one or more of the display devices In some embodiments any portion of the operating system of the computing device may be configured for using multiple displays In other embodiments one or more of the display devices may be provided by one or more other computing devices such as computing devices and connected to the computing device for example via a network. These embodiments may include any type of software designed and constructed to use another computer s display device as a second display device for the computing device . One ordinarily skilled in the art will recognize and appreciate the various ways and embodiments that a computing device may be configured to have multiple display devices 

In further embodiments an I O device may be a bridge between the system bus and an external communication bus such as a USB bus an Apple Desktop Bus an RS 232 serial connection a SCSI bus a FireWire bus a FireWire 800 bus an Ethernet bus an AppleTalk bus a Gigabit Ethernet bus an Asynchronous Transfer Mode bus a HIPPI bus a Super HIPPI bus a SerialPlus bus a SCI LAMP bus a FibreChannel bus or a Serial Attached small computer system interface bus.

A computing device of the sort depicted in typically operate under the control of operating systems which control scheduling of tasks and access to system resources. The computing device can be running any operating system such as any of the versions of the Microsoft Windows operating systems the different releases of the Unix and Linux operating systems any version of the Mac OS for Macintosh computers any embedded operating system any real time operating system any open source operating system any proprietary operating system any operating systems for mobile computing devices or any other operating system capable of running on the computing device and performing the operations described herein. Typical operating systems include WINDOWS 3.x WINDOWS 95 WINDOWS 98 WINDOWS 2000 WINDOWS NT 3.51 WINDOWS NT 4.0 WINDOWS CE and WINDOWS XP all of which are manufactured by Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. MacOS manufactured by Apple Computer of Cupertino Calif. OS 2 manufactured by International Business Machines of Armonk N.Y. and Linux a freely available operating system distributed by Caldera Corp. of Salt Lake City Utah or any type and or form of a Unix operating system among others.

In other embodiments the computing device may have different processors operating systems and input devices consistent with the device. For example in one embodiment the computer is a Treo 180 270 1060 600 or 650 smart phone manufactured by Palm Inc. In this embodiment the Treo smart phone is operated under the control of the PalmOS operating system and includes a stylus input device as well as a five way navigator device. Moreover the computing device can be any workstation desktop computer laptop or notebook computer server handheld computer mobile telephone any other computer or other form of computing or telecommunications device that is capable of communication and that has sufficient processor power and memory capacity to perform the operations described herein.

Referring now to an embodiment of steps of a method for controlling characteristics of light emanating from a light source in association with products presented for display is illustrated. In brief overview of method at step a lighting control system is deployed or used to control one or more lighting sources in areas of a display unit in an environment having light reactive material. The light reactive material may react to one or more predetermined characteristics of light. For example the lighting control system is used in conjunction with a display unit for displaying products or product related features in an environment such as a store a display station in a mall or a refrigerator in a store. At step the lighting control system is configured to establish one or more characteristics of the light emanating from the light source to correspond to the characteristics of light desired for the light reactive material to be reactive. In this step configuration may be any type of system settings calibration values instructions or commands customized for a given light reactive material illuminated. At step the lighting control system directs the light source to emanate the light having the established characteristics desired for the light reactive material. At step the lighting control system may change or adjust the predetermined characteristics of the emanating light source responsive to a detector further configuration etc. The system may be responsive to any changes in environment conditions by changing the light source accordingly.

In more detail at step any type and form of lighting control system may be deployed with any type and form of display unit or otherwise in any environment. In one embodiment the lighting control system is installed and operated to control one or more lighting sources of a display unit having products with light reactive material. In another embodiment the lighting control system is installed and operated to control one or more lighting sources of a display unit having portions of the display unit with light reactive material. In other embodiments the lighting control system is installed and operated to control one or more lighting sources in any environment having light reactive material external to the product and or display unit. In some embodiments the lighting control system may be deployed remote to the product and or display unit. For example the lighting control system may operate on a computing device in a location remote to the display unit and communicate with the light sources via a network . In another embodiment the lighting control system is deployed in the vicinity of the display unit but not attached to or connected to the display unit. For example a lighting control system may be deployed in a first or central location to control and manage light sources for a plurality of display units in multiple locations.

By way of example a lighting control system deployed in step may be a system inside a clothing store where a brand of clothing is displayed under a UV light in order to emphasize photoluminescent features of the logos on the clothing. A system may also be deployed to create a light show effects of water or a sea breeze when illuminating a brand of body wash products. In another example the lighting control system is deployed to illuminate fruits vegetables or other products stored in a refrigerator in a supermarket.

The lighting control system may be deployed to control light sources to cause a reaction in any type and form of light reactive material . In case where the light emanating from a light source illuminates a light reactive material that induces a response from the material including a response inside of it response on its surface or a change in a perception to a viewer the given material then is a light reactive material. In some embodiments a light emanating from a light source and illuminating a vegetable stored inside a refrigerator may initiate a process of photosynthesis inside a vegetable then the vegetable may be considered a light reactive material. In another embodiment a light emanating from a light source and illuminating vegetables may have characteristics which kill the bacteria inside and on the surface of vegetables. The vegetable being illuminated is in this case also a light reactive material. In yet another embodiment a light source is illuminating a product for the purpose of color rendering which alters the perception of the color in the eye of the consumer due to the combination of the color of the illuminated object and the color of light illuminating the object the object being illuminated is also a light reactive material.

At step the lighting control system may be configured or instructed by any means to establish or set the characteristics of the light emanating from the light source to correspond to the characteristics of light desired for the light reactive material. In some cases the lighting control system is configured dynamically during operation. In other embodiments the lighting control system is configured statically or between operations. In one embodiment the lighting control system may be configured via a configuration tool . In another embodiment the lighting control system may be configured via a command panel . In other embodiments the lighting control system such as via the UIM or LCM may receive instructions via a network to establish the characteristics of light emanating from the light source. In some embodiments the lighting control system sets or establishes the characteristics of light emanating from the light source responsive to information received from any one or more detectors . In yet another embodiment the lighting control system is preconfigured or preset to emanate light have the desired characteristics corresponding to the light reactive material.

Via the configuration the lighting control system may establish any parameters or settings representing the characteristics of light to emanate from the light source such as color wavelength frequency intensity etc. Configuration or establishment of the lighting control system may include the setting calibration or adjustment of any type of parameters or settings via any type of interface such as an application programming interface graphical user interface or command line interface. Configuration may include issuing any commands or instructions. In some embodiments configuration may include the use of any type and form of protocols software programs control scripts or any other type of instructions to control the characteristics of the emitted light tailored to the needs of the light reactive material. In one case configuration may take place via a network connection to the lighting control system such as via an Internet connection. Another way to configure the system may be using a blue tooth receiver to send commands or instructions to the lighting control system from any type and form of mobile device. Furthermore the system settings and configuration parameters may be stored in memory or storage of the lighting control system during installation. In some cases one or more commands may be used to activate the stored configuration settings. The lighting control system may also be pre configured by the factory at time of manufacture and or prior to installation or shipment.

At step the lighting control system directs requests or instructs the light source to emanate light having the configured or established characteristics desired for the light reactive material. Responsive to the establishment of the lighting characteristics at step the lighting control system directs the light sources to provide light in accordance with the desired characteristics for the light reactive material . In some embodiments the lighting control system turns on the light source . Upon powering up the light source may provide the light in accordance with the established characteristics. In other embodiments the light source is already powered on and the lighting control system changes or adjusts the characteristics of light emanating from the light source. In some embodiments the lighting control system is controlling multiple lights sources directed to the light reactive material . Responsive to the established light characteristics at step the lighting control system may direct one light source of the multiple light sources to emanate the established lighting characteristics towards the light reactive material. In another embodiment the lighting control system may direct all or more than one of the multiple light sources to emanate the established lighting characteristics towards the light reactive material.

In one embodiment at step since the system is configured to the settings desired for a given product or a display feature the request is sent by the lighting control system for the light source to emanate light according to the established light characteristics. In one embodiment this request may originate for the user sending the command via a remote control associated with the system. The lighting control system such as via UIM receives the request and sends the request to an LCM as depicted in . The LCM then issues the command and the instructions associated with the illumination characteristics for a specific light reactive material to the LED Driver which in response turns the LED on in a way specified by the LCM. In another example a request may also be issued to the lighting control system via a network which in response sends the commands and instructions to the LCM associated with the illumination characteristics of a specific light reactive material which in response instructs the LED driver to turn the LED on in a way specified by the instructions. Furthermore in another example a timer may trigger the request to the lighting control system which in turn sends the command to emanate the light via the LCM and the LED Driver. In yet another example a sensor may be used to determine the presence of a consumers in the environment of the display unit. In response a request if forwarded to the lighting control system which in turn sends the command to have light emanate accordingly via the LCM and the LED Driver. Any number of means or methods may be used to trigger the request for the lighting control system to cause the light source to emanate according to the desired lighting characteristics.

At step the output of the light source is adjusted or changed via the lighting control system to emanate light having predetermined characteristics responsive to detectors sensors configuration etc. While the system is in operation and the light is illuminating from the light source towards the area having light reactive material requests may be issued via the lighting control system to alter the characteristics of the light output. For example a product may be changed in the area of the display for example from one product to another product such as red apples. In one embodiment the lighting control system may adjust the output of the light emanating towards an assortment of red apples replacing a previous product which required a different light illumination from that desired for the red apples. Upon placing the red apples into the area of the display unit a detector or user may send a signal to the lighting control system to change the light properties of the emanating light for the new product such as a stronger red color component in order to use color rendering when displaying the red apples.

In another example an enclosed refrigerator may display vegetables and fruits and have a door monitored by an interlock sensor. The refrigerator may include two separate light sources. The first light source may be a UV light source which illuminates vegetables with UV light killing bacteria while the sensor monitoring the door is detecting the doors of the fridge to be closed. The second light source may be a white light source turned on only when the doors of the refrigerator are opened. The light emitted inside the fridge is initially a UV light emitted from the first light source. When the user opens the door the user triggers the sensor to send the request to the lighting control system to switch the light source which in turns sends the commands and instructions to the LCM and LED Driver to turn off the UV light source and turn on the second white light source. The user then has a clearer view of the refrigerator. However once the doors are closed again the sensor sends another command to the lighting control system to turn of the white light source and resume UV light illumination of the products inside the fridge.

One embodiment that provides another example of method described above includes a lighting control system to control an array of lighting sources for emanating light having wavelength properties that promote photosynthesis in vegetables such as vegetables stored in a refrigerator inside a store. In this example the lighting control system requires controls one or more light source to illuminate an area in the refrigerator displaying green vegetables using a white light in the presence of consumers in the vicinity of the refrigerator. In the absence of consumers near the refrigerator the lighting control system shifts the wavelength spectrum of the light emanating from the light source to a spectrum with a dominating 590 nm wavelength in order to promote the process of photosynthesis within the leaves of the vegetables. The 590 nm wavelength dominated light helps the vegetables creating chlorophyll making them look greener and also helps the vegetables with the process of photosynthesis. The vegetables which are reacting to the 590 nm dominated light via the photosynthesis or the creation of chlorophyll are the light reactive material in this example. The configuration of the lighting control system may include establishment of two settings for the illumination of the vegetables. One setting is associated with white light illumination which is more presentable to the consumer and the other setting is associated with a 590 nm light dominated illumination which helps the vegetables with the process of creation or activation of chlorophyll and the process of photosynthesis.

While the store is closed or otherwise no customers are detected near the vicinity of the display unit a detector sends a signal to the lighting control system that no movement is detected or otherwise an indication that there are no customers near the display unit. Upon receiving the request the lighting control system sends instructions to the LCM which in response sends instructions to the LED Driver to emanate light from the LED . As the result the light shifts to orange 590 nm wavelength dominated light and the vegetables illuminated activate chlorophyll and maintain the process of photosynthesis. A detector may sense the arrival of a customer near the vicinity of the display unit. The detector then sends the request to the lighting control system such as via network which in response issues instructions to the LCM to turn off the 590 nm dominated light and turn on the white light. The 590 nm dominated light is turned off and the white light is turned on.

Referring now to an embodiment of steps of a method for controlling characteristics of light from a light source in association with one or more detectors is depicted. In brief overview of method at step a lighting control system is used to control one or more light sources to emanate light toward areas of a display unit for presenting one or more products. At step one or more detectors detect a state or condition of the environment such as presence absence movement quantity etc of a product in an area of the display unit. At step the lighting control system is configured or managed to provide one or more characteristics of the light emanating from the light source to correspond to characteristics of light desired based on and responsive to detectors. At step the lighting control system requests or otherwise causes the light source to emanate the light having the characteristics desired based on the detection. At step the lighting control system may change or adapt the characteristics of the light emanating from light source to have predetermined characteristics responsive to the detector sensor configuration etc such as from continuous monitoring of environmental states or conditions.

In further detail in step a lighting control system is provided to control one or more LED light sources to emanate light toward areas of a display unit for presenting one or more products. The lighting control system may be in communication with one or more detectors such as via a network . Any type and form of one or more of the same or different detectors may be deployed. The detectors may be deployed in any portion of the display unit interior or exterior. In other embodiments the detectors may be deployed to predesignated areas of a display unit for products. In another embodiments the detectors may be placed located and or oriented in a manner to obtain appropriate or suitable detection of a state or condition.

The lighting control system may deployed in any type of environment and for a multitude of applications. For example in one embodiment a display unit may be set up inside a clothing store The lighting control system either local or remote to the display unit controls a plurality of lighting sources illuminating light towards a brand of clothing using a UV light in order to emphasize the brand logos on the clothing. The brand logos may include contains photoluminescent light reactive material. Another example may be a system to create a light show effect of water fire or a sea breeze when illuminating a brand of body wash products in a store window. In another example the lighting control system controls light sources inside a fridge having vegetables or fruits. Other examples may include color rendering applications involving a display unit with a lighting control system which controls the characteristics of the light illuminating the products presented via the display unit.

At step one or more detectors may detect any state or condition of the environment such as a state or condition of the products or the ambient environment of the display unit or product. In yet other embodiments the detector may detect any state or condition of an environment remote to the product or display unit such as the temperature in a remote location. In one embodiment one or more detectors may detect a state of presence absence movement or quantity of products in an area of a display unit. In other embodiments the detectors may detect a color or color temperature of a product. In some embodiments the detector may determine via a bar code and or RFID tag information about the product. An example of such instance could be a consumer approaching the shelf comprising products to be illuminated via a light show. Another example may be the sensor detecting the absence of products left in the shelf on the display such as via a weight or pressure sensor. Other embodiment may involve sensors detecting a user or object movement a temperature or sound from the area or the environment surrounding the system. Other examples may also include any system involving a sensor detection of any kind for the purpose of detecting a state of an area or a state of any of the relevant parameters from the area or a surrounding environment. The detectors may communicate information in any format or via any protocol to the lighting control system .

At step responsive to the detectors or information provided by the detectors the lighting control system adapts or establishes one or more characteristics of the light emanating from the light source to correspond to predetermined characteristics of light desired based on and responsive to the detection. One example of this method is configuring a light control system to have settings specified and assign to each of the products which may be displayed in an area. The settings of the lighting control system may be as such that the lighting control systems makes adjustments to the characteristics of the light emanating from the light sources in response to a signal from a detector. An example of this embodiments is configuring the lighting control system such that a first setting is used for a light having a first characteristics for a display of green vegetables and a second setting for a light having a second characteristic for display of red apples. The lighting control system may change between two settings responsive to the detector sensing the tags associated with products. The lighting control system may be configured in any way to have settings for light characteristics associated with each of the products and the change of the settings being responsive to a signal from a detector. The lighting control system may dynamically establish or change the characteristics of the light emanating from a light source based on any business rules and information received from one or more detectors.

In further details at step the lighting control system requests the light source to emanate the light having the characteristics desired based on the detection. In one embodiment the lighting control system makes the request immediately upon detection. In another embodiment the lighting control system makes the request upon a predetermined time after receiving the detection or otherwise a predetermined delay. In other embodiments the lighting control system makes the request upon receiving a second detection or upon other information received from any other detector. In yet one embodiment the lighting control system requests the light source to emanate the light having the characteristics desired based on signals or information from multiple detectors such as detection of a predetermined product and a temperature. In some embodiments the lighting control system controls light from a single light source based on the detection. In other embodiments the lighting control system controls light from multiple light sources based on the detection.

In one example a detector senses arrival of a customer at the display or into a store and sends a signal to the light control system. In response to the signal the lighting control system may adjust the lighting of the light source from one spectrum of lighting to another spectrum of lighting. In another example the lighting control system may switch between white light to the UV light responsive to detection that the doors of a display unit are closed.

At step the lighting control system may continuously change or adapt the characteristics of the light emanating from the light source to one more predetermined characteristics responsive to the detector control panel information received via the network etc. As the lighting control system receives signals from one or more detectors the lighting control system dynamically adjusts the characteristics of the light emanating from the light sources based on and responsive to the detections. For example as the ambient environment to the product or display unit changes the lighting control system changes the characteristics of the light emanating from the light sources in response to the changes in the ambient environment. The lighting control system may make adjustments to the light characteristics on a predetermined frequency based on the most recent detected information. In other embodiments the lighting control system may make adjustments to the light characteristics upon receipt of signals from a detector or receipt of signals from multiple detectors.

