---

title: Method and apparatus for maintaining operability with a cloud computing environment
abstract: A method and apparatus for maintaining operability with a cloud computing environment. The apparatus includes a storage module and a local environment module. The storage module may store cloud computing data from a cloud computing environment onto a local storage device. The storage module may communicate with the cloud computing environment through a remote connection. The local environment module may operate a local cloud computing environment from the local storage device while the remote connection to the cloud computing environment is unavailable. The local cloud environment may replicate at least a portion of the cloud computing environment and may be operated from the stored cloud computing data.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09058229&OS=09058229&RS=09058229
owner: Lenovo (Singapore) PTE. LTD.
number: 09058229
owner_city: Tech Park
owner_country: SG
publication_date: 20101004
---
The subject matter disclosed herein relates to a cloud computing environment and more particularly relates to maintaining operability with a cloud computing environment.

The use of cloud computing continues to increase. Cloud computing involves remote computing over a network where applications documents and data are provided by remote computers over the network to a cloud computing access device. A user typically logs in to a cloud computing environment from the user s local computer. The user is then able to access applications documents and data on the cloud computing environment. Because the remote computer stores and operates the cloud computing environment when a connection to the remote computers become unavailable the user is unable to access modify and or save the user s documents applications and data.

From the foregoing discussion inventors herein have identified a need for a method and apparatus that stores cloud computing data from a cloud computing environment onto a local storage device. Beneficially such a method and apparatus would maintain operability with the cloud computing environment while the remote connection to the cloud computing environment is unavailable.

The embodiments of the present disclosure have been developed in response to the present state of the art and in particular in response to the problems and needs in the art that have not yet been fully solved by currently available cloud computing access devices. Accordingly the embodiments have been developed to provide a method and apparatus for maintaining operability with a cloud computing environment that overcome many or all of the above discussed shortcomings in the art.

One embodiment of the apparatus includes a storage module and a local environment module. The storage module stores cloud computing data from a cloud computing environment onto a local storage device. The storage module may communicate with the cloud computing environment through a remote connection. The local environment module operates a local cloud computing environment from the local storage device while the remote connection to the cloud computing environment is unavailable. The local cloud environment may replicate at least a portion of the cloud computing environment and may be operated from the stored cloud computing data.

In a further embodiment at least a portion of the local storage device includes a removable storage device. In one embodiment the apparatus further includes a connection module checking for data connectivity of the remote connection at a predetermined interval. In a further embodiment the connection module detects data connectivity of the remote connection and the apparatus further includes a synchronization module synchronizing differences of the cloud computing environment and or the local cloud computing environment in response to the connection module detecting data connectivity of the remote connection.

In one embodiment the apparatus further includes a state module maintaining a state of the cloud computing environment and or the local cloud computing environment. The state may include a cloud computing environment version indicator an application version indicator and or a document version indicator of one or more of the cloud computing environment and the local cloud computing environment.

In one embodiment the apparatus further includes a state comparison module comparing a state of the cloud computing environment with a state of the local cloud computing environment to determine differences between the cloud computing environment and the local cloud computing environment. In certain embodiments the storage module maintains a secure storage area on the local storage device. The storage module may secure store at least a portion of the cloud computing data on the secure storage area. Furthermore a particular portion of the at least a portion of the cloud computing data may be accessible by a user with a security credential corresponding to the particular portion.

In certain embodiments the cloud computing environment includes a cloud computing application a cloud computing document and or one or more cloud computing security credentials.

A method is presented for maintaining operability with a cloud computing environment. In one embodiment the method includes the steps to carry out the functions of the apparatus.

A computer program product is also presented for maintaining operability with a cloud computing environment also with similar steps to carry out the functions of the apparatus. Additionally in one embodiment the computer program product includes providing the cloud computing environment with a cloud computing security credential corresponding to a user the cloud computing environment allowing communication between the local storage device and the cloud computing environment in response to the cloud computing environment authenticating the user with the cloud computing security credential.

References throughout this specification to features advantages or similar language do not imply that all of the features and advantages may be realized in any single embodiment. Rather language referring to the features and advantages is understood to mean that a specific feature advantage or characteristic is included in at least one embodiment. Thus discussion of the features and advantages and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily refer to the same embodiment.

Furthermore the described features advantages and characteristics of the embodiments may be combined in any suitable manner. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize that the embodiments may be practiced without one or more of the specific features or advantages of a particular embodiment. In other instances additional features and advantages may be recognized in certain embodiments that may not be present in all embodiments.

These features and advantages of the embodiments will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or may be learned by the practice of the embodiments as set forth hereinafter.

Many of the functional units described in this specification have been labeled as modules in order to more particularly emphasize their implementation independence. Modules may include hardware circuits such as one or more processors with memory Very Large Scale Integration VLSI circuits gate arrays programmable logic and or discrete components. The hardware circuits may perform logic functions execute computer readable programs stored on tangible storage devices and or execute programmed functions. Modules may also include a computer readable storage medium comprising a computer readable program stored on a tangible storage device that performs a function when executed by a hardware circuits such as a processor microcontroller or the like.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment an embodiment or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment in an embodiment and similar language throughout this specification may but do not necessarily all refer to the same embodiment but mean one or more but not all embodiments unless expressly specified otherwise. The terms including comprising having and variations thereof mean including but not limited to unless expressly specified otherwise. An enumerated listing of items does not imply that any or all of the items are mutually exclusive unless expressly specified otherwise. The terms a an and the also refer to one or more unless expressly specified otherwise.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics of the embodiments may be combined in any suitable manner. In the following description numerous specific details are provided such as examples of programming software modules user selections network transactions database queries database structures hardware modules hardware circuits hardware chips etc. to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that embodiments may be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials and so forth. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of an embodiment.

The processor memory IO module graphics module display module BIOS module network module USB module audio module PCIe module and storage module referred to herein as components may be fabricated of semiconductor gates on one or more semiconductor substrates. Each semiconductor substrate may be packaged in one or more semiconductor devices mounted on circuit cards. Connections between the components may be through semiconductor metal layers substrate to substrate wiring circuit card traces and or wires connecting the semiconductor devices.

The memory stores computer readable programs. The processor executes the computer readable programs as is well known to those skilled in the art. The computer readable programs may be tangibly stored in the storage module . The storage module may comprise at least one Solid State Device SSD . In addition the storage module may include a hard disk drive an optical storage device a holographic storage device a micromechanical storage device or the like.

The processor may include integrated cache to reduce the average time to access memory . The integrated cache may store copies of instructions and data from the most frequently used memory locations. The processor may communicate with the memory and the graphic module .

In addition the processor may communicate with the IO module . The IO module may support and communicate with the BIOS module the network module the PCIe module and the storage module .

The PCIe module may communicate with the IO module for transferring data or power to peripheral devices. The PCIe module may include a PCIe bus for attaching the peripheral devices. The PCIe bus can logically connect several peripheral devices over the same set of connections. The peripherals may be selected from a printer a joystick a scanner or the like. The PCI module may also comprise an expansion card as is well known to those skilled in the art.

The BIOS module may communicate instructions through the IO module to boot the computing device so that computer readable software instructions stored on the storage module can load execute and assume control of the computing device . Alternatively the BIOS module may comprise a coded program embedded on a chipset that recognizes and controls various devices that make up the computing device .

The network module may communicate with the IO module to allow the computing device to communicate with other devices over a network. The devices may include routers bridges computers printers and the like.

The display module may communicate with the graphic module to display information as will be described hereafter. The display module may be a cathode ray tube CRT a liquid crystal display LCD monitor or the like.

The USB module may communicate with one or more USB compatible devices over a USB bus. The audio module may generate an audio output.

In one embodiment each module comprises a computer readable storage medium comprising a computer readable program stored on a tangible storage device.

Each cloud access device may communicate with the cloud computing platform through the network . In one embodiment a cloud access device communicates with the cloud computing platform with an application such as an Internet browser executing on the cloud access device . Conventional cloud access devices do not host and or maintain applications documents and data from the cloud computing platform a conventional cloud computing platform stateless in operation provides applications documents and data to the cloud access devices . Consequently a user may access documents from a first cloud access device and also access the same documents on a second cloud access device

The cloud computing environment also referred to herein as a remote cloud computing environment for differentiation from the local cloud computing environment refers to data program code virtual environment session and or applications executing on the cloud computing platform that enable a user and or application on a cloud access device to access and or modify applications programs and or data stored and or hosted by the cloud computing platform . The remote cloud computing environment may include one or more cloud computing applications one or more cloud computing documents one or more cloud computing security credentials and the like. A cloud computing application may include an application hosted by the cloud computing platform for access by a user from a cloud access device . For example a cloud computing application may be a word processing application. A cloud computing document may be a document file collection of data and or object that a user may access and or modify. The cloud computing document may be compatible with and or particular to a cloud computing application . Cloud computing security credentials may include various forms of user authorization known in the art including a user name a password a security question and or the like.

The remote cloud computing environment may be user specific including cloud computing applications and or cloud computing documents corresponding to a particular user. The remote cloud computing environment in one embodiment is accessible by a user by way of one or more cloud computing security credentials. The cloud computing security credentials may be associated with a particular remote cloud computing environment and or a particular user and or user account on the cloud computing platform . The cloud computing security credentials may allow a user and or application to access a particular remote cloud computing environment . For example a user may log in to a particular remote cloud computing environment using cloud computing security credentials associated with the particular remote cloud computing environment .

The remote cloud computing environment may be accessible by the cloud access device . Furthermore the remote cloud computing environment may also be accessible by multiple cloud computing access devices . For example a user may log in to the remote cloud computing environment from a first cloud access device e.g. the user s local computer modify a cloud computing document in the remote cloud computing environment and then log in to the remote cloud computing environment from a second cloud access device e.g. the user s work computer to access the modified cloud computing document without having to transmit the modified cloud computing document from the first cloud access device to the second cloud access device . However because the cloud computing platform stores hosts and or operates the remote cloud computing environment when a remote connection e.g. over the network to the cloud computing platform become unavailable the user is unable to access modify and or save the user s documents applications and data. Furthermore a user s modifications to documents and data may be lost if the remote connection fails before the modifications are saved to the remote cloud computing environment .

Therefore in the depicted embodiment the cloud access device includes a local cloud computing apparatus . The local cloud computing apparatus may store cloud computing data from the remote cloud computing environment onto a local storage device in communication with the cloud access device . The local cloud computing apparatus may also operate a local cloud computing environment on the cloud access device from the stored cloud computing data. The local cloud computing environment may represent at least a portion of the remote cloud computing environment . For example the local cloud computing environment may include a cloud computing application and a cloud computing document shared by the remote cloud computing environment . In one embodiment the local cloud computing environment includes a runtime instantiation of executable code stored from the cloud computing platform . Furthermore in certain embodiments the local cloud computing environment is a virtual machine environment running on the cloud access device . In this embodiment the virtual machine may run over an operating system of the cloud access device and or run on the cloud access device independent of a base operating system.

The local cloud computing apparatus may operate the local cloud computing environment while the remote connection to the remote cloud computing environment is unavailable. For example the local cloud computing apparatus may operate the local cloud computing environment while the cloud access device loses a network connection to the network and consequently to the cloud computing platform remote cloud computing environment . The local cloud computing apparatus may therefore allow a user access to cloud computing documents and cloud computing applications when access to the cloud is unavailable. The local cloud computing apparatus may also operate the local cloud computing environment even when access to the cloud is available as described in greater detail below.

In one embodiment the local cloud computing apparatus maintains and implements a state of the remote cloud computing environment and or the local cloud computing environment . The local cloud computing apparatus may synchronize the local cloud computing environment and the remote cloud computing environment based on the state. Therefore the local cloud computing apparatus may convey changes made on the local cloud computing environment such as changes made to a cloud computing document to the remote cloud computing environment .

In the depicted embodiment the local cloud computing apparatus resides in the cloud access device . In other embodiments all or a portion of the local cloud computing apparatus may reside outside the cloud access device such as in one or more other devices in communication with the cloud access device . In one embodiment the local cloud computing apparatus is stored on and may be operated from one or more storage devices in communication with the cloud access device such as the local storage device .

The device port may be a port capable of establishing communication between the removable storage device and the cloud access device . In one embodiment the device port is a Universal Serial Bus USB port although any suitable device port interface may be used. The removable storage device may include a removable Hard Disk Drive HDD a USB flash memory storage device and or any other suitable removable and or portable storage devices. At least a portion of the local cloud computing apparatus may reside on and or operate from the removable storage device .

The local cloud computing apparatus and the local cloud computing environment may be substantially similar to the like named elements described above in relation to . With the local cloud computing apparatus on the removable storage device a user may transport the local cloud computing environment to various cloud access devices . For example a user may access cloud computing documents and cloud computing applications with the local cloud computing apparatus on a USB flash memory storage device from a first cloud access device e.g. a home computer and then take the USB flash memory storage device and connect it to a second cloud access device e.g. a work computer to access the cloud computing documents and cloud computing applications . In one embodiment the local cloud computing apparatus includes an auto run feature that responsive to connecting with a cloud access device initiates the local cloud computing apparatus and or automatically logs in to the remote cloud computing environment . Furthermore as described below cloud computing documents cloud computing applications and other data may be securely stored on the removable storage device to prevent unwanted access. Sensitive data may be accessible by a user with a security credential corresponding to an associated cloud computing environment. In one embodiment the security credential matches the security credential corresponding to a user s remote cloud computing environment .

The storage module stores cloud computing data from a remote cloud computing environment onto a local storage device . Cloud computing data may include but is not limited to data relating to program code session information state information cloud computing applications cloud computing documents and or cloud computing security credentials. For example the cloud computing data may include executable code that a browser on the cloud access device may use to access cloud computing applications and cloud computing documents . The cloud computing data may include data to replicate at least a portion of the remote cloud computing environment onto the local storage device including in one embodiment data sufficient to simulate for a user the appearance and control of accessing cloud computing applications and cloud computing documents of the remote cloud computing environment .

The storage module may communicate with the remote cloud computing environment through a remote connection and the storage module downloads the cloud computing data from the cloud computing platform through the remote connection. In one embodiment the storage module accesses cloud computing data by way of function calls using for example an application programming interface API . Furthermore the storage module may also access the cloud computing data using industry standard protocols such as Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP Hypertext Markup Language HTML Extended Markup Language XML and the like. In certain embodiments the storage module works with conventional cloud computing platforms and or remote cloud computing environments downloading cloud computing data through existing function calls. In another embodiment the cloud computing platform and or remote cloud computing environment is configured to interface with the storage module to allow the storage module to download the cloud computing data. In one embodiment the storage module downloads a minimum amount of cloud computing data to enable a user to access a particular cloud computing document and or cloud computing application . The storage module may download additional cloud computing data in an as needed basis as the user selects un downloaded applications documents and or features.

The remote connection may include the network e.g. the Internet a communication from the cloud access device to the network a communication between the network and the cloud computing platform and or the like. Furthermore as described above in relation to in one embodiment at least a portion of the local storage device is a removable storage device .

In one embodiment the storage module maintains a secure storage area on the local storage device . The storage module may securely store at least a portion of the cloud computing data on the secure storage area. For example the storage module may store user specific data such as a user s cloud computing documents on the secure storage area. In addition a particular portion of the at least a portion of the cloud computing data may be accessible by a user with a security credential corresponding to the particular portion. In one embodiment the security credential matches the security credential corresponding to a user s remote cloud computing environment .

The local environment module operates a local cloud computing environment from the local storage device . The local environment module may replicate at least a portion of the remote cloud computing environment . Replicating the remote cloud computing environment may include operating the local cloud computing environment from actual executable code used for the remote cloud computing environment by the cloud computing platform . In one embodiment replicating the remote cloud computing environment includes simulating the remote cloud computing environment with at least a portion of executable code that does not originate from the cloud computing platform cloud computing environment . In addition the local environment module may operate the local cloud computing environment from the stored cloud computing data such as application data document data and or cloud computing operational data e.g. code to run the could computing environment as is described above. The local environment module may execute cloud computing code that a browser on the cloud access device may use to access cloud computing applications and cloud computing documents to simulate and or replicate access to the remote cloud computing environment .

Furthermore the local environment module may operate the local cloud computing environment from the local storage device while the remote connection to the remote cloud computing environment is unavailable. In one embodiment the local environment module operates the local cloud computing environment even when the remote connection has data connectivity. In this embodiment the local environment module may allow a user to access and work from the local cloud computing environment uploading changes and updates to the remote cloud computing environment at predetermined intervals. In one embodiment the local environment module operates the local cloud computing environment in response to the remote connection being unavailable. In this embodiment the local environment module may allow a user to access and work from the remote cloud computing environment when the remote connection has data connectivity. In one embodiment the local environment module operates the local cloud computing environment as a virtual machine environment running on the cloud access device .

The connection module checks for data connectivity of the remote connection at a predetermined interval and may detect data connectivity of the remote connection. In one embodiment the connection module continually pings the cloud computing platform e.g. a gateway and or Internet Protocol address associated with the cloud computing platform as is known the in art. When the connection module fails to receive a response the connection module may detect no data connectivity of the remote connection. Likewise as the connection module receives replies to its pings the connection module may detect data connectivity of the remote connection. In one embodiment the connection module pings the cloud computing platform at a predetermined interval. The cloud connection module may also check for data connectivity in response to a predetermined event such as a user input a change in user input and the like.

The state module maintains a state of the remote cloud computing environment and or the local cloud computing environment . The state may include a cloud computing environment version indicator an application version indicator a document version indicator a security credential state indicator and or the like. The state module may determine a state based on a user update of a cloud computing document on the local cloud computing environment . For example a user may edit a document and the local environment module may save the changes. The state module may then increment a document version number or other state indicator to indicate that the document is a later version. Furthermore the state module may also maintain a state of one or more cloud computing applications . For example the state module may determine that a version of a particular word processing application on the local cloud computing environment is version 2.

The state module may maintain states based on states and or indicators assigned and used by the cloud computing platform . For example the state module may reference access and or modify a state indicator associated with a particular cloud computing document cloud computing application cloud computing environment and the like. For example the state module may refer to a version number for a particular cloud computing application . In another embodiment the state module determines a state and does not use a pre existing state indicator. For example the state module may determine the state of a cloud computing document based on a modification date of the cloud computing document and or other metadata associated with the cloud computing document . If a version of the cloud computing document on the remote cloud computing environment has a modification date that is more recent than a version of the same cloud computing document on the local cloud computing environment the state module may assign the remote cloud computing document a state indicator indicating a more recent state.

The state module may store a state for components related to the remote cloud computing environment such as code related to the remote cloud computing environment itself cloud computing documents on the remote cloud computing environment remote cloud computing applications and the like and for components related to the local cloud computing environment .

The state comparison module compares a state of the remote cloud computing environment with a state of the local cloud computing environment to determine differences between the remote cloud computing environment and the local cloud computing environment . Comparing a state of the cloud computing environments remote and or local may include comparing a state of the cloud computing environment e.g. executable code of the environment itself cloud computing applications cloud computing documents and the like. The state comparison module may signal the synchronization module to synchronize the remote cloud computing environment and or the local cloud computing environment if the state comparison module determines differences.

The synchronization module synchronizes differences of one or more of the remote cloud computing environment and the local cloud computing environment . The synchronization module may synchronize either cloud computing environment in response to the connection module detecting data connectivity of the remote connection and or in response to the state comparison module detecting differences between the cloud computing environments . Synchronizing may include copying data from the remote cloud computing environment to the local cloud computing environment and or copying data from the local cloud computing environment to the remote cloud computing environment . For example if a particular cloud computing document on the remote cloud computing environment has a more recent state than a copy of the particular cloud computing document on the local cloud computing environment the synchronization module may copy the particular cloud computing document entirely or an updated portion of the document from the remote cloud computing environment to the local cloud computing environment . In certain embodiments the synchronization module may follow certain rules regarding synchronization. For example rules may specify which portions of cloud computing environment data can be synchronized and in which direction synchronization may occur. For example the rules may specify that a cloud computing document may be synchronized in both directions but that cloud computing applications may only be synchronized from the remote cloud computing environment to the local cloud computing environment minimizing the uploading of a virus in a cloud computing application for example .

The authentication module may provide the remote cloud computing environment with a cloud computing security credential corresponding to a user. As a result the remote cloud computing environment may allow communication between the local storage device and the remote cloud computing environment in response to authenticating the user with the cloud computing security credential. Cloud computing security credentials may include various forms of user authorization known in the art including a user name a password a security question and or the like. In one embodiment the authentication module queries a user for the user s cloud computing security credentials to log in to a particular remote cloud computing environment for the user.

The user input receiving module may receive user input in the local cloud computing environment . For example user input may include text input received from a user through a keyboard. The user input receiving module update a particular cloud computing document in the local cloud computing environment with the received user input and signal the state module to update the state of the particular cloud computing document .

The schematic flow chart diagrams that follow are generally set forth as logical flow chart diagrams. As such the depicted order and labeled steps are indicative of one embodiment of the presented method. Other steps and methods may be conceived that are equivalent in function logic or effect to one or more steps or portions thereof of the illustrated method. Additionally the format and symbols employed are provided to explain the logical steps of the method and are understood not to limit the scope of the method. Although various arrow types and line types may be employed in the flow chart diagrams they are understood not to limit the scope of the corresponding method. Indeed some arrows or other connectors may be used to indicate only the logical flow of the method. For instance an arrow may indicate a waiting or monitoring period of unspecified duration between enumerated steps of the depicted method. Additionally the order in which a particular method occurs may or may not strictly adhere to the order of the corresponding steps shown.

In one embodiment the method is implemented with a computer readable storage medium comprising a computer readable program stored on a tangible memory device and or storage device. The computer readable storage medium may be integrated into a computer system such as the computing device wherein the computer readable program executed by the processor performs the method .

The method starts and the storage module communicates with a cloud computing environment through a remote connection. Then the storage module stores cloud computing data from the cloud computing environment onto a local storage device . Next the local environment module operates a local cloud computing environment from the local storage device while the remote connection to the cloud computing environment is unavailable. The local cloud computing environment replicates at least a portion of the cloud computing environment and is operated from the stored cloud computing data. Then the method ends.

In one embodiment the method is implemented with a computer readable storage medium comprising a computer readable program stored on a tangible memory device and or storage device. The computer readable storage medium may be integrated into a computer system such as the computing device wherein the computer readable program executed by the processor performs the method .

The method starts and the authentication module provides a user s cloud computing security credential to a local cloud computing environment . The authentication module then receives a confirmation from the local cloud computing environment . The confirmation may include an indication of a positive authentication from the local cloud computing environment an indication of an established connection ability to access data from the local cloud computing environment receiving data from the local cloud computing environment and the like. Note that in certain embodiments the authentication module may initially log in to the remote cloud computing environment .

The connection module then checks for data connectivity of the remote connection to the remote cloud computing environment . In one condition the connection module fails to detect data connectivity and the method proceeds to user input receiving module monitoring for user input as is described below postponing synchronization . Alternatively the connection module detects data connectivity of the remote connection.

The state comparison module then determines a condition of whether a state of a local cloud computing environment is current. The state comparison module may compare a state of the remote cloud computing environment with the state of the local cloud computing environment to determine whether the state of the local cloud computing environment is current. The state may include a cloud computing environment version indicator an application version indicator and a document version indicator of the local cloud computing environment one or more applications in the local cloud computing environment documents in the local cloud computing environment and the like.

The state comparison module may determine that the state of the local cloud computing environment is not current. The synchronization module then synchronizes differences between the local cloud computing environment and the remote cloud computing environment . For example the synchronization module may update a particular document of the local cloud computing environment based on a newer version of the particular document stored on the remote cloud computing environment. Returning to step the state comparison module may also determine that the state of the local cloud computing environment is current.

Continuing with step the state comparison module then determines a condition of whether the state of the remote cloud computing environment is current. Specifically the state comparison module may compare a state of the remote cloud computing environment with the state of the local cloud computing environment to determine whether the state of the remote cloud computing environment is current. As with the local cloud computing environment the state may include a cloud computing environment version indicator an application version indicator and a document version indicator of the remote cloud computing environment one or more cloud computing applications in the remote cloud computing environment one or more cloud computing documents in the remote cloud computing environment and the like.

In one condition the state comparison module determines that the state of the remote cloud computing environment is not current. The synchronization module then synchronizes the remote cloud computing environment with the local cloud computing environment . For example the synchronization module may update a particular cloud computing document of the remote cloud computing environment based on a newer version of the particular cloud computing document stored on the local cloud computing environment . Returning to step the state comparison module may also determine that the state of the remote cloud computing environment is current.

Continuing with step the user input receiving module may receive user input. In one condition the user input receiving module does not receive user input and the method ends. Alternatively the user input module receives user input. Next the local environment module saves the user input to the local cloud computing environment . For example the local environment module may save user input to a cloud computing document stored in the local cloud computing environment . The state module then updates the state of the local cloud computing environment to reflect the changes in the local cloud computing environment . For example if the local environment module updated a document the state module may increment a version number of the cloud computing document .

Next the connection module determines whether a predetermined interval has elapsed for checking connectivity to the remote cloud computing environment . In one condition the connection module determines that the predetermined interval has not elapsed and the method returns to step in which the user input receiving module determines whether user input is received. Alternatively the connection module determines that the predetermined interval has elapsed. The connection module then checks for data connectivity of the remote connection to the remote cloud computing environment . In one condition the connection module detects data connectivity of the remote connection and the method returns beginning in step to the state comparison module determining whether the states of the local cloud computing environment and the remote cloud computing environment are current. The method may continue from step checking the state of the local cloud computing environment and the remote cloud computing environment . In step the synchronization module may synchronize a copy of the document in the remote cloud computing environment with the modified document in the local cloud computing environment .

Referring back to step the connection module may not detect data connectivity of the remote connection. Then the method ends.

Embodiments may be practiced in other specific forms. The described embodiments are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

