---

title: Techniques for backup error management
abstract: Techniques for backup error management are disclosed. In one particular exemplary embodiment, the techniques may be realized as a method for backup error management comprising receiving a backup job error from a backup job, providing an error indicator and at least one user selectable option, receiving a user input corresponding to the at least one user selectable option, and modifying a backup policy to address the error based at least in part on the received user input.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08117492&OS=08117492&RS=08117492
owner: Symantec Corporation
number: 08117492
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100129
---
The present disclosure relates generally to backing up data and more particularly to techniques for backup error management.

Backup and archive policies can involve a number of different devices drives folders partitions and or other portions of data. Providing error notifications for backup or archive errors encountered can be challenging. Reporting too many errors may make a job appear as failed and may require detailed troubleshooting by a user. Reporting too few errors may result in loss of data when an error is ignored.

In view of the foregoing it may be understood that there may be significant problems and shortcomings associated with current backup and archival technologies.

Techniques for backing up data are disclosed. In one particular exemplary embodiment the techniques may be realized as a method for backup error management comprising receiving a backup job error from a backup job providing an error indicator and at least one user selectable option receiving a user input corresponding to the at least one user selectable option and modifying a backup policy to address the error based at least in part on the received user input.

In accordance with other aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the error indicator may be provided in a backup job log containing contextual information associated with the error.

In accordance with further aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the at least one user selectable option may comprise an option to exclude a resource associated with the error from the one backup job.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the resource may be excluded from subsequent instances of the backup job.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the resource may be excluded from all future backup jobs.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the method may further comprise excluding all resources of a specified category from the backup job.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the specified category may comprise at least one of resource hardware type resource owner resource group resource location resource network location and resource status.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the method may further comprise providing an option allowing a user to specify an exclusion duration.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the exclusion duration may be specified by at least one of a time period a number of backup jobs run and a criteria that must be met to end exclusion.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the at least one user selectable option may comprise an option to ignore an error for the one backup job.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the at least one user selectable option may further comprise an option to ignore an error for all future backup jobs.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the method may further comprise ignoring all errors of a specified category from the backup job.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the method may further comprise providing an option allowing a user to specify a duration during which the error is ignored in the backup job.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the techniques may be realized as at least one processor readable storage medium for storing a computer program of instructions configured to be readable by at least one processor for instructing the at least one processor to execute a computer process for performing the method.

In another particular exemplary embodiment the techniques may be realized as an article of manufacture for backup error management the article of manufacture comprising at least one processor readable medium and instructions stored on the at least one medium wherein the instructions are configured to be readable from the at least one medium by at least one processor and thereby cause the at least one processor to operate so as to receive a backup job error from a backup job provide an error indicator and at least one user selectable option receive a user input corresponding to the at least one user selectable option and modify a backup policy to address the error based at least in part on the received user input.

In yet another particular exemplary embodiment the techniques may be realized as a system for backup error management comprising one or more processors communicatively coupled to a network wherein the one or more processors are configured to receive a backup job error from a backup job. The one or more processors may be configured to provide an error indicator and at least one user selectable option receive a user input corresponding to the at least one user selectable option and modify a backup policy to address the error based at least in part on the received user input.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the error indicator may be provided in a backup job log containing contextual information associated with the error.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the at least one user selectable option may comprise an option to exclude a resource associated with the error from the backup job.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the techniques may further comprise excluding all resources of a specified category from the backup job.

In accordance with additional aspects of this particular exemplary embodiment the at least one user selectable option may comprise an option to ignore an error for the backup job.

The present disclosure will now be described in more detail with reference to exemplary embodiments thereof as shown in the accompanying drawings. While the present disclosure is described below with reference to exemplary embodiments it should be understood that the present disclosure is not limited thereto. Those of ordinary skill in the art having access to the teachings herein will recognize additional implementations modifications and embodiments as well as other fields of use which are within the scope of the present disclosure as described herein and with respect to which the present disclosure may be of significant utility.

With reference to computer system of modem network interface or some other method may be used to provide connectivity from one or more of client systems and and or servers A and B to network . Client systems and may be able to access information on server A or B using for example a web browser or other client software not shown . Such client software may allow client systems and to access data hosted by server A or B or one of storage devices A N B N and or N .

Network may be a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet a cellular network a satellite network or another network that permits communication between clients servers and other devices communicatively coupled to network . Network may further include one or any number of the exemplary types of networks mentioned above operating as a stand alone network or in cooperation with each other. Network may utilize one or more protocols of one or more clients or servers to which it is communicatively coupled. Network may translate to or from other protocols to one or more protocols of network devices. Although network is depicted as one network it should be appreciated that according to one or more embodiments network may comprise a plurality of interconnected networks.

Storage devices A N B N and or N may be network accessible storage and may be local remote or a combination thereof to server A or B. Storage devices A N B N and or N may utilize a redundant array of inexpensive disks RAID magnetic tape disk a storage area network SAN an internet small computer systems interface iSCSI SAN a Fibre Channel SAN a common Internet File System CIFS network attached storage NAS a network file system NFS optical based storage or other computer accessible storage. Storage devices A N B N and or N may be used for backup or archival purposes.

According to some embodiments clients and may be smartphones PDAs desktop computers a laptop computers servers other computers or other devices coupled via a wireless or wired connection to network . Clients and may receive data from user input a database a file a web service and or an application programming interface.

Servers A and B may be application servers archival platforms backup servers network storage devices media servers email servers document management platforms enterprise search servers or other devices communicatively coupled to network . Servers A and B may utilize one of storage devices A N B N and or N for the storage of application data backup data or other data. Servers A and B may be hosts such as an application server which may process data traveling between clients and and a backup platform a backup process and or storage. According to some embodiments servers A and B may be platforms used for backing up and or archiving data. One or more portions of data may be backed up or archived based on a backup policy and or an archive applied attributes associated with the data source space available for backup space available at the data source or other factors.

According to some embodiments clients and or may backup and or archive data based on a policy supplied by a backup archive management server.

Backup management module may generate a job log providing details of a backup or archive job. Errors may be included. Errors may include access or permission errors device errors configuration errors or other errors. For example a device scheduled for archiving may be offline may have crashed or an archive process may not have permission to access the device. Similarly archiving or backup may have been scheduled for drives or partitions mapped to a user or application that has been deleted. A job log generated by backup management module may include error messages associated with one or more of these errors and or error messages associated with other errors. Error messages may provide context of an error message. In addition to providing an error associated with a particular operation the job log may indicate a device a path a partition a network address an error type and or an error description. According to some embodiments a user may be able to drill down or expand an error message by clicking on it expanding it or activating another user control associated with an error message in a job log. A job log may also contain one or more options associated with an error. For example an error may contain an icon a hyperlink or another indicator allowing a user to access one or more options associated with that error. Options may include excluding a resource from a job ignoring an error retrying an operation escalating an error performing a diagnostic option and or generating a notification. For example an error in an archive job may be associated with a device or a network drive mapping that has been removed from a system. A user viewing such an error in a backup job may choose to exclude the resource from the backup job.

Backup management module may allow user to specify which resource or resources to exclude from a job. Resources may be devices network paths drive mappings data associated with users data associated with applications servers databases partitions or other network accessible devices or portions of data. A user may also specify a category of resource to exclude from an archive job or a backup job. For example an administrator may exclude all resources of a specified category from at least one backup job. A category may include a resource hardware type a resource owner a resource group a resource location a resource network location a resource status or another resource category identifier. For example an administrator may know that a certain type of resource such as devices of a certain manufacturer model and version are offline for upgrading. In another example an administrator may be aware that resources associated with a terminated user may have been deleted. According to some embodiments a resource a resource category and or a group of resources may be specified by a resource identifier.

Backup management module may allow an administrator to specify the range of exclusion. For example an administrator may view a job log with an archive error for an operation archiving email data associated with a user. The administrator may choose to exclude this resource e.g. the user s email directory from one or more subsequent instances of the archive job. The administrator may also choose to exclude this resource from other jobs such as for example a backup job associated with the resource. According to some embodiments an administrator may choose to exclude the resource from all future backup jobs. Additionally a user may choose to exclude a resource category from all future backup jobs. The range of exclusion may be specified by one or more job identifiers by a job type or by other criteria. For example a user may exclude a group of resources from archiving jobs but not from backup jobs.

In addition to specifying one or more resources to exclude and one or more jobs to exclude them from backup management module may allow a user to specify an exclusion duration according to some embodiments. For example the exclusion duration may be specified by one or more of a time period a number of jobs run and a criteria that may be met to end exclusion. A user may specify a time period e.g. days weeks months etc. . A user may also specify a number of jobs e.g. exclude the resource for the next N number of jobs . A user may alternatively or additionally specify a criteria to be met either to exclude a resource or to include a resource in a job e.g. do not backup this host until it is pingable or network accessible . According to some embodiments one or more tests may be run prior to a job to verify whether specified criteria are met. According to some embodiments at the end of the duration the one or more resources may no longer be excluded and one or more policies and or jobs may revert to include the resource in one or more jobs.

Backup management module may provide one or more exclusion options associated with an error or a warning in a job log and may accept one or more user inputs associated with the options. Inputs accepted by backup management module may be used to modify one or more policies and or one or more jobs for backup archival or other system administration jobs e.g. encryption compression deletion and or modification of data .

Backup management module may provide other options for a user viewing a job log. For example backup management module may allow a user to ignore an error for at least one job. A user may be presented with options allowing them to ignore the error in subsequent instances of the same backup job and or in all future backup jobs. According to some embodiments a user may be able to specify that all errors with a particular resource group of resources or category of resources be ignored.

In addition to specifying one or more errors to ignore and one or more jobs in which to ignore the specified errors backup management module may allow a user to specify a duration during which the one or more errors are to be ignored. For example the duration may be specified by one or more of a time period a number of jobs run and a criteria that may be met to stop ignoring the one or more specified errors. According to some embodiments at the end of the duration a user may be prompted regarding whether to continue ignoring one or more errors. According to some embodiments at the end of the duration the error may no longer be ignored and one or more policies and or jobs may revert to include the error in a log.

Another option provided by backup management module for error management may include generation of a notification. A user may specify that a particular error is to generate a notification when it occurs. According to one or more embodiments backup management module may allow a user to specify additional logging or diagnostics to be performed in association with an error. Such logging or diagnostics may enable a user to identify or address an error in subsequent jobs.

Bus allows data communication between central processor and system memory which may include read only memory ROM or flash memory neither shown and random access memory RAM not shown as previously noted. The RAM is may be the main memory into which the operating system and application programs may be loaded. The ROM or flash memory can contain among other code the Basic Input Output system BIOS which controls basic hardware operation such as the interaction with peripheral components. Applications resident with computer system may be stored on and accessed via a computer readable medium such as a hard disk drive e.g. fixed disk an optical drive e.g. optical drive a floppy disk unit or other storage medium. For example backup error management module may be resident in system memory .

Storage interface as with the other storage interfaces of computer system can connect to a standard computer readable medium for storage and or retrieval of information such as a fixed disk drive . Fixed disk drive may be a part of computer system or may be separate and accessed through other interface systems. Modem may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a telephone link or to the Internet via an internet service provider ISP . Network interface may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a direct network link to the Internet via a POP point of presence . Network interface may provide such connection using wireless techniques including digital cellular telephone connection Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD connection digital satellite data connection or the like.

Many other devices or subsystems not shown may be connected in a similar manner e.g. document scanners digital cameras and so on . Conversely all of the devices shown in need not be present to practice the present disclosure. The devices and subsystems can be interconnected in different ways from that shown in . Code to implement the present disclosure may be stored in computer readable storage media such as one or more of system memory fixed disk optical disk or floppy disk . Code to implement the present disclosure may also be received via one or more interfaces and stored in memory. The operating system provided on computer system may be MS DOS MS WINDOWS OS 2 OS X UNIX Linux or another known operating system.

Power manager may monitor a power level of battery . Power manager may provide one or more APIs Application Programming Interfaces to allow determination of a power level of a time window remaining prior to shutdown of computer system a power consumption rate an indicator of whether computer system is on mains e.g. AC Power or battery power and other power related information. According to some embodiments APIs of power manager may be accessible remotely e.g. accessible to a remote backup management module via a network connection . According to some embodiments battery may be an Uninterruptable Power Supply UPS located either local to or remote from computer system . In such embodiments power manager may provide information about a power level of an UPS.

Referring to there is shown a backup error management module in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. As illustrated the backup error management module may contain one or more components including a error logging module a error resolution module and a policy management module .

The description below describes network elements computers and or components of a system and method for client power level aware backup management that may include one or more modules. As used herein the term module may be understood to refer to computing software firmware hardware and or various combinations thereof. Modules however are not to be interpreted as software which is not implemented on hardware firmware or recorded on a processor readable recordable storage medium i.e. modules are not software per se . It is noted that the modules are exemplary. The modules may be combined integrated separated and or duplicated to support various applications. Also a function described herein as being performed at a particular module may be performed at one or more other modules and or by one or more other devices instead of or in addition to the function performed at the particular module. Further the modules may be implemented across multiple devices and or other components local or remote to one another. Additionally the modules may be moved from one device and added to another device and or may be included in both devices.

Error logging module may generate error formatting in a job log providing error context and one or more error handling options. Error logs may be generated in XML HTML or other formats. Errors may contain a link or another indicator allowing a user to access one or more options or user controls associated with that error.

Error resolution module may provide a user interface and or accept user input from one or more options or user controls associated with an error. Options may include excluding a resource from a job ignoring an error escalating an error performing a diagnostic option generating a notification retrying a job action or step and or other error handling options.

Policy management module may receive user inputs associated with errors. Inputs accepted by policy management module may be used to modify one or more policies and or one or more jobs for backup archival or other system administration jobs e.g. encryption compression deletion and or modification of data . According to some embodiments if a duration for an option is specified e.g. exclude this resource from archival for this period of time policy management module may prompt a user after the expiration of the duration. The prompt may allow the user to extend the duration e.g. continue the exclusion determine whether the duration should be extended and or revert back to a prior policy or job e.g. end an exclusion or stop ignoring an error .

Referring to there is depicted a method for backup error management in accordance with an embodiment of the present disclosure. At block the method may begin.

At block a job log or other job output may provide an error indicator and one or more user selectable options associated with an error. Options may include excluding a resource from a job ignoring an error retrying an operation escalating an error performing a diagnostic option generating a notification retrying a job action or step and or other error handling options.

At block user input may be received. According to some embodiments user input may be provided via clicking on a hyperlink clicking a button selecting a menu option a command line entry or via other input.

At block it may be determined whether or not one or more resources should be excluded according to received user input. If one or more resources are to be excluded the method may continue at block . If resources are not to be excluded the method may continue at block .

At block the method may identify one or more resources to be excluded. Resources may be devices network paths drive mappings data associated with users data associated with applications servers databases partitions or other network accessible devices or portions of data. According to some embodiments a single resource may be identified by one or more criteria associated with an error in a job log. According to at least one embodiment a user may also specify a category of resource to exclude from an archive job or a backup job. For example an administrator may exclude all resources of a specified category from at least one backup job. A category may include a resource hardware type a resource owner a resource group a resource location a resource network location resource status or another resource category identifier. For example an administrator may know that a certain type of resource such as devices of a certain manufacturer model and version are offline due to a network problem. According to some embodiments a resource a resource category and or a group of resources may be specified by a resource identifier.

At block one or more jobs may be specified to exclude the specified resources from. According to some embodiments a user may exclude a resource from subsequent instances of a job in which an error occurred of all jobs of that type e.g. full backup incremental backup archive etc. or of a range of jobs. According to some embodiments a user may enter criteria to search for jobs in which a resource is included to filter search results and or to specify jobs from which the resource is to be excluded.

At block it may be determined whether or not an error should be ignored. If an error should be ignored the method may continue at block . If an error should not be ignored the method may continue at block .

At block one or more resource errors to be ignored may be identified. A user may be presented with options allowing them to ignore the error in subsequent instances of the same backup job and or in all future backup jobs. According to some embodiments a user may be able to specify that all errors with a particular resource group of resources or category of resources be ignored.

At block one or more jobs in which to ignore a resource error may be specified. According to some embodiments a user may ignore a resource error in subsequent instances of a job in which an error occurred of all jobs of that type e.g. full backup incremental backup archive etc. or of a range of jobs. According to some embodiments a user may enter criteria to search for jobs in which a resource is included to filter search results and or to specify jobs from which the resource error is to be ignored.

At block one or more other actions may be specified by a user in response to a job error. Other options may include escalating an error performing a diagnostic option generating a notification retrying a job action or step and or other error handling options.

At block a duration during which a specified option is to occur may be specified e.g. the duration of the exclusion of the resource from one or more jobs. For example the duration may be specified by one or more of a time period a number of jobs run and a criteria that may be met to stop the option e.g. to stop ignoring an error or excluding a resource . According to some embodiments at the end of the duration a user may be prompted regarding whether to continue an option. According to some embodiments at the end of the duration one or more policies and or jobs may revert as they were prior to an option.

At block inputs accepted for error management options may be used to modify one or more policies and or one or more jobs for backup archival or other system administration jobs e.g. encryption compression deletion and or modification of data . According to some embodiments if a duration for an option is specified e.g. exclude this resource from archival for this period of time a user may be prompted after the expiration of the duration. The prompt may allow the user to extend the duration e.g. continue the exclusion determine whether the duration should be extended and or revert back to a prior policy or job e.g. end an exclusion or stop ignoring an error .

At this point it should be noted that backup error management in accordance with the present disclosure as described above typically involves the processing of input data and the generation of output data to some extent. This input data processing and output data generation may be implemented in hardware or software. For example specific electronic components may be employed in a backup management module or similar or related circuitry for implementing the functions associated with backup error management in accordance with the present disclosure as described above. Alternatively one or more processors operating in accordance with instructions may implement the functions associated with backup error management in accordance with the present disclosure as described above. If such is the case it is within the scope of the present disclosure that such instructions may be stored on one or more processor readable storage media e.g. a magnetic disk or other storage medium or transmitted to one or more processors via one or more signals embodied in one or more carrier waves.

The present disclosure is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments described herein. Indeed other various embodiments of and modifications to the present disclosure in addition to those described herein will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from the foregoing description and accompanying drawings. Thus such other embodiments and modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the present disclosure. Further although the present disclosure has been described herein in the context of a particular implementation in a particular environment for a particular purpose those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that its usefulness is not limited thereto and that the present disclosure may be beneficially implemented in any number of environments for any number of purposes. Accordingly the claims set forth below should be construed in view of the full breadth and spirit of the present disclosure as described herein.

