---

title: Systems and methods for ranking user defined targets in a universal graph database
abstract: A computer-implemented method for determining a connection ranking value between entities includes receiving private information from a user, and retrieving public information from publicly available sources. The method also includes matching the public information with the private information, generating a graph database with the public and private information, establishing at least one search criteria, and generating a connection ranking value between entities in the graph database based on the search criteria.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08402023&OS=08402023&RS=08402023
owner: Reachable, Inc.
number: 08402023
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101019
---
The use of computer systems and computer related technologies continues to increase at a rapid pace. This increased use of computer systems has influenced the advances made to computer related technologies. Indeed computer systems have increasingly become an integral part of the business world and the activities of individual consumers. Computer systems may be used to carry out several business industry and academic endeavors. The wide spread use of computers has been accelerated by the increased use of computer networks including the Internet. Many businesses use one or more computer networks to communicate and share data between the various computers connected to the networks. The productivity and efficiency of employees often requires human and computer interaction.

Users of computer technologies continue to demand that the efficiency of these technologies increase. These demands include demands to improve the ability to communicate with other users of computer technologies. For example social networking websites allow users to communicate with each other. A user of these sites may establish contacts which may be family friends co workers acquaintances friends of friends etc. of the user. In addition address book features of certain applications such as email applications allow a user to store contact information for family friends co workers etc. The user may access his her address book to obtain contact information for an individual when he she desires to contact that particular individual.

The increased ease of gathering information about people places activities histories and preferences has resulted in users creating large collections of information about the people they are connected to and the ways they are connected. The volume and organization of the information often leads to ineffective use of the information.

An example computer implemented method for determining a connection ranking value between entities includes receiving private information from a user and retrieving public information from publicly available sources. The method also includes matching the public information with the private information generating a graph database with the public and private information establishing at least one search criteria and generating a connection ranking value between entities in the graph database based on the search criteria.

The private information may include relationship information between the user and at least some of the entities. The method may further include continuously retrieving the public information and automatically updating the connection ranking value. The method may include creating a pathway between the entities based on the at least one search criteria wherein the connection ranking value is based at least in part on the pathway. The method may include displaying the connection pathway and connection ranking value. The method may include receiving private information about the user and other private information such as relationships between the user and the plurality of contacts.

Another example relates to a computer system configured to determine a connection ranking value between entities. The computer system includes a processor memory in electronic communication with the processor and a ranking module. The ranking module may receive private information from a user retrieve public information from publicly available sources match the public information with the private information generate a graph database with the public and private information establish at least one search criteria and generate a ranking value between entities in the graph database based on the search criteria.

The ranking module may further be configured to continuously retrieve the public information and automatically update the ranking values. The ranking module may be configured to create a pathway between the entities based on the at least one search criteria. The ranking value may represent aspects of the pathway. The ranking value may be based at least in part on relationship information between the user and at least one of the entities.

A further example relates to a computer program product for determining connections between entities. The computer program product comprises a computer readable medium having instructions thereon. The instructions may include code programmed to receive private information from a user code programmed to retrieve public information from publicly available sources code programmed to match the public information with the private information code programmed to generate a graph database with the public and private information code programmed to establish at least one search criteria and code programmed to generate a ranking value between entities in the graph database based on the search criteria.

The instructions may further include code programmed to create a pathway based on the search criteria. The instructions may further include displaying the ranking value and the pathway.

Another example relates to a computer implemented method for generating a ranking value for a user defined target. The method includes establishing at least one search criteria for a user defined target retrieving public information relating to the search criteria from publicly available sources creating at least one pathway to the user defined target that meets the search criteria generating a ranking value for the at least one pathway and displaying the ranking value.

The method may also include displaying the at least one pathway. The method may include continuously retrieving the public information and automatically updating the ranking value. The at least one pathway may include a plurality of pathways wherein the ranking value is based on at least one of a strength of each of the plurality of pathways a total number of pathways and a length of the pathways.

The method may include receiving personal information from at least one user and matching the personal information with the public information.

A further example relates to a computer system configured to generate a ranking value for a user defined target. The computer system includes a processor memory in electronic communication with the processor and a rank generating module. The rank generating module may be configured to establish at least one search criteria for a user defined target retrieve public information related to the search criteria from publicly available sources create at least one pathway to the user defined target that meets the search criteria generate a ranking value for the at least one pathway and display the ranking value.

The rank generating module may be configured to display the at least one pathway. The rank generating module may be configured to store the pathways and ranking values. The rank generating module may be further configured to continuously retrieve the public information and automatically update the at least one pathway and the ranking value. The at least one pathway may include a plurality of pathways wherein the ranking value is based on at least one of a strength of each of the plurality of pathways a total number of pathways and a length of the pathways.

Another example relates to a computer program product for generating a ranking value for a user defined target. The computer program product includes a computer readable medium having instructions thereon. The instructions include code programmed to establish at least one search criteria for a user defined target code programmed to retrieve public information relating to the search criteria from publicly available sources code programmed to create at least one pathway to the user defined target that meets the search criteria code programmed to generate a ranking value for the at least one pathway and code programmed to display the ranking value.

The instructions may further include code programmed to display the at least one pathway. The instructions may further include code programmed to receive personal information from at least one user and the at least one pathway created using the public and private information. The at least one pathway may include a plurality of pathways wherein the ranking value is based on at least one of a strength of each of the plurality of pathways a total number of pathways and a length of the pathways.

Features from any of the above mentioned embodiments may be used in combination with one another in accordance with the general principles described herein. These and other embodiments features and advantages will be more fully understood upon reading the following detailed description in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and claims.

While the embodiments described herein are susceptible to various modifications and alternative forms specific embodiments have been shown by way of example in the drawings and will be described in detail herein. However the exemplary embodiments described herein are not intended to be limited to the particular forms disclosed. Rather the instant disclosure covers all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the scope of the appended claims.

Online social network portals have gained popularity in recent years. Users of these networks may be members of multiple online social network portals. Examples of these portals may include LinkedIn XING Viadeo and FaceBook . Each user of these various network portals may create and maintain a list of contacts. A user s list of contacts for a particular network portal may include family members friends co workers acquaintances classmates friends of friends etc. that are also members of that particular network portal. For example a member of the social network LinkedIn may create a list of contacts that includes family members friends co workers acquaintances classmates friends of friends etc. that are also members of LinkedIn .

Social network portal users may also create and maintain a list of contacts in their personal offline networks. Examples of offline networks may include Outlook Lotus Notes Yahoo or any other relationship management system. These lists of contacts are commonly placed in an electronic address book associated with each relationship management system.

The total number of contacts across various social networks and offline networks has increased dramatically. A given user may have hundreds or even thousands of contacts many of which are duplicated across the different social networks and offline networks. It is often difficult for users to keep track of the relevance of a given contact the user s connection to the contact and current information e.g. address phone employer job title personal and professional events etc. for each contact.

The present disclosure provides a system that tracks public and private connections between people and provides connection and profile information as a software platform via the Internet and at least one application programming interface API . The system may implement or generate at least one graph database. The graph database may be updated in real time. The system may be capable of being used on a large scale to power cloud or software as a service based application that services simultaneous users and run simultaneous algorithms. An example system implementing a graph database is described in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 907 164 entitled A DATA GRAPH CLOUD SYSTEM AND METHOD and filed on Oct. 19 2010 which is incorporated herein in its entirety by this reference.

The universal social graph generating module may use private information from the personal data sources and public information such as information from the commercial data sources to create at least one universal social graph database. The universal social graph generating module may use software systems to create graph databases. The universal social graph generating module may track publicly available information on people and other entities. The term entities in this context may be defined to include for example people companies government agency education institutions education degrees job positions interests hobbies and geographic locations. The term entity or entities may be inclusive of individuals groups of individuals organizations attributes hobbies activities or other types of information that can be collected and connected. An entity may include private information submitted by a user such as information about the user e.g. work history education history interests personal attributes and geographical location and information about the user s contacts.

In one example the universal social graph generating module focuses primarily on information that connects people including for example location hobbies and employment history. However in other examples the information collected can be used to create connections in other ways such as between two inanimate entities such as two companies. While the examples that follow herein focus primarily on a user s contacts and other private information as the entity for which connections are determined other types of entities may be used.

The universal social graph generating module may identify and normalize information and establish connections between entities based on this information. The public information available from the commercial data sources and other publicly available sources is typically constantly changing and being updated from for example targeted data source updates and real time and on the go Internet queries.

Individuals and enterprises may upload private information from the personal data sources into the universal social graph generating module . The universal social graph generating module may be operable to disambiguate and normalize the information about people and match that information with publicly available information about people. Ownership of each item of information may be maintained as public or private based on the source of that information. Private ownership may be qualified by an individual contributor. The public information may be gathered from public sources such as the commercial data sources and be ingested into a graph database using algorithms that allow the universal social graph generating module to compute strength of connectivity between individuals.

The strength of connectivity may be reported as a quantifiable computed or determined value. This quantifiable computed value may be used as a search algorithm as part of the search criteria. This quantifiable computed value may also be used in a graph traversal for the strength of a connection. The quantifiable computed value may be generated using the connection value generating module . The strength of connectivity may be represented in other ways besides a quantifiable value. For example the strength of connectivity may be represented with a color code a symbol audible tone or a chronological presentation or any combination thereof.

The output from the universal social graph generating module may be a constructed network of entities and their private and public connections. The output may be in the form of a graph database. This constructed network may be possible without each person in the system having opted into the network and intentionally contributed their public information. Contributions of private information are typically authorized by each user who accesses the graph database. The private information may include as little as a person s name such as the user s name. The output is typically made available for users to search append and use to find information on and connections to other people via for example the web module distribution and CRM distribution platform .

Typically the universal social graph generating module communicates with the personal data sources commercial data sources web module distributions and CRM distribution platform via the Internet . In some arrangements any one of the personal data sources commercial data sources web module distribution and CRM distribution platforms may be directly connected to the universal social graph platform and or the universal social graph generating module rather than a connection via the Internet .

The universal social graph database created by the universal social graph generating module is a connected network of people and entities that connect them. The universal social graph database may contain billions of people in associated relationships. A full detail of the connections between people may be maintained in a graph database maintained on the universal social graph generating module . Data may be added to the graph database in real time. Typically real time searches to find people and connections between people are available on the graph database using the universal social graph generating module .

The public information available to the universal social graph generating module may be provided at least in part through the commercial data sources and information available on the Internet and other publicly available sources. The public information may be organized as a public graph database that includes information about people and entities that connect them. The public graph database typically contains all information that can be gathered from public data sources. The public graph database is typically an open network that does not require user contribution. The public graph database usually includes entity disambiguation across multiple data sources. In order to provide a true connected system nodes in the public graph database are uniquely identified across all publicly available input data sources. This construction allows for connectivity of entities and people in a way that allows traversal without running into duplication.

In a public graph database people or other entities are stored as nodes in the graph with connections to associated entities. People are connected to each other through the associated entities. Any user of the system is typically allowed to view and traverse relationships made available through publicly available data or information.

The information available through the personal data sources may be constructed as a private graph database. This information and connections between people available from the personal data sources may be formed as a result of the privately contributed information. This privately contributed information is available to the user and anyone the user has selected to share their private personal information. The universal social graph platform and associated universal social graph generating module may maintain information on many different private graph databases and their connection points into the public graph database. Private graph databases may be merged into or separated from other private graph databases based on user access rights e.g. user rights maintained on arcs between nodes in the graph databases .

The private graph databases may include software system integrations with other systems that store individual enterprise information about people and contacts that allow for automatic uploading and syncing of private information on people. The private graph databases may include private information that is meshed with the public graph database information. The nodes are identified as the same between the public and private graph databases to permit a connection from nodes in the private graph database to the public graph database.

In some examples the public and private information is collected into a single master graph database. In other examples separate public and private graph databases are constructed for each of the public information and the private information.

Private networks in which permissions are extended between different private graph databases may be shared within groups of users. Private connections may be made and can be traversed in the private graph databases by users with private access to the information that created the connection in the private graph database. Private access may be obtained by ownership or by granting through sharing rights.

The universal social graph generating module tracks individual ownership of information that connects people. The universal social graph generating module provides an option for users to share their private information with other users. Sharing of private information opens up the relationships owned by the user to others who are sharing in this group or globally sharing. Users may also opt to make private information public so that the private information becomes part of the public graph database.

One aspect of the system is that the information collected by the universal social graph generating module is comprehensive and current. The graph database maintained by the universal social graph generating module is preferably kept up to date with the personal data sources and commercial data sources and other information available publicly. One way to improve the collection of current and up to date information is to provide recurring data source updates. Public data may be continuously updated through an automated process. Searches for people in the system may trigger Internet searches to retrieve targeted profiles and infer people and relationships from targeted search results using any available search engine. The Internet may be constantly monitored for more information on existing public and private people and or information in the system and also identify new public people and or information to add to the system .

Updates to public information may affect many aspects of the system . For example any nodes in a private graph database may be updated with changed public information. Private data may also be continuously updated as the personal data sources may be continuously synchronized with the universal social graph generating module .

The universal social graph generating module may also provide profiles and connection paths between entities e.g. connections between people . These profiles may contain searching and analytics. The searching may include looking up people in a variety of attributes such as their location or places they have worked. The analytics may include real time path finding to show how anyone in the universal social graph database whether private or public is connected. The analytics may use a dynamic model to enable applying user preferences to the search and user criteria for finding the strongest connections.

Information in the universal social graph database may be maintained as connections between entities. The connection information may be presented visually to the user via any desired format including for example the web module distribution and CRM distribution platforms . The universal social graph generating module may present information as for example an XML text description or other format that may be optimized for certain users and applications. The visual presentation of the information provided by the universal social graph generating module may include for example different node sizes colors shapes screen locations and node descriptions. Relationships and arcs between nodes may have different for example sizes shapes colors and descriptions that improve the visual presentation.

The universal social graph generating module may capture all relationships with associated levels of privacy. Typically every user accessing the universal social graph database may see and traverse all publicly available data. Users may also see and traverse information they own or information owned by someone that has been given permission to share.

Referring to an example connection pathway web provides a visual representation of an output from the universal social graph generating module includes a plurality of nodes and connecting arcs. The nodes are labeled Node A G. The plurality of connecting arcs connect the Nodes A G to provide a connection path between a source Node A and a target Node G. The solid line connecting arcs represent public relationships between nodes meaning any user can see and traverse those arcs. The broken lines of connecting arcs represent private relationships contributed by User . The broken line of connecting arc represents a private relationship contributed by User .

If User runs a search for target G the user will see two pieces of information on Node G because the relationship from Node G to Node E is public the relationship from Node G to Node F is contributed to User so can be seen . If User or a User views Node G they will only see the relationship to Node E. If User then runs a path from Node A to Node G two paths exist. A first path traverses connecting arcs and a second path traverses connecting arcs . If User runs a path from Node A to Node G User would see one path along connecting arcs . User does not see the relationship between Node A and Node B or between Node D and Node F and therefore cannot follow those paths. If a User runs a path from Node A to Node G there are no results.

Referring now to an example method utilizing the system of is shown and described. Method includes a first operational step of receiving private information from a user. In a further operational step the method includes retrieving public information from publicly available sources. In a following operational step the method includes generating a graph database with the public information. The method includes matching the public information with the private information in a further operational step . In operational step the method includes determining connections between entities in the graph database. The method includes determining strength of connectivity between the entities in the graph database in an operational step . Additional steps may be added to the method or removed from the method in various applications.

Referring now to aspects of the system including the universal social graph generating module discussed above with reference to may be included in another example system . The system includes a universal social graph platform having a universal social graph generating module . The universal social graph platform and universal social graph generating module may have the same or similar functions and features as discussed above related to system .

The system may also include private personal information and public information that are communicated to the universal social graph platform via for example the Internet . The private personal information and public information may be communicated directly to the universal social graph platform through other communication channels such as described above for system .

The system may also include a client in communication with universal social graph platform . The client may be for example a personal computer PC a laptop a personal digital assistant PDA a smart phone or any other type of computing or communication device.

The client may include a search criteria module . The search criteria module may provide a means for communicating certain search criteria filtering requests or targets for searches. In some arrangements the search criteria module may operate independently of the client e.g. see the search criteria module of the system described below . The client may communicate via the Internet or directly with any other element of the system .

The system may further include a ranking system that includes a ranking generating module and a pathway generating module . The ranking system may be part of the universal social graph platform . In other arrangements the ranking system may be configured separately from the universal social graph platform . The ranking system may communicate with the universal social graph platform via the Internet or directly through other communication methods or systems.

The ranking generating module may operate to generate a ranking value such as a connection ranking value for any one of a plurality of contacts received by the universal social graph platform . The ranking value may be a numerical value representative of how any one of the plurality of contacts meets certain search criteria or a user defined target.

The pathway generating module may be used to generate a pathway between a user and certain of the plurality of contacts or targets that meet given search criteria or user defined targets. Typically a length of the pathway a strength of the pathway or the number of pathways between the user and any one or a plurality of the contacts may be used by the ranking generating module to determine the ranking value.

The ranking value generated by the ranking generating module and any of the pathways generated by the pathway generating module may be displayed for viewing. The client may obtain access to the ranking value and pathways via for example a web module distribution or a CRM distribution platform described above with reference to system . In one example a ranking value for each of the plurality of contacts that meet the search criteria are displayed in a chart form. A user with access to the ranking values may obtain a visual presentation of the pathways associated with each of the ranking values by for example selecting the ranking value.

Referring now to an example method implementing the system is shown and described. The method may include a first operational step of receiving private information from a user. The method includes matching publicly available information with the private information in a step . In a step the method includes matching public information with private information. In a step the method includes generating a graph database with the public and private information. The method includes establishing at least one search criteria in a step and generating connection ranking values for at least some of the plurality of contacts based on search criteria in a step .

Referring now to another example system is shown including a universal social graph platform having a universal social graph generating module a search criteria module public information a client and a ranking system . The Internet may be used to facilitate communication between the universal social graph generating module and other features of system .

The ranking system may include a ranking generating module and a pathway generating module . In system the search criteria module may be an independently operable module from the client . In some arrangements the client may be used to submit private or personal information to the universal social graph platform via for example the Internet . A universal social graph database generated by the universal social graph generating module may receive or retrieve public information and additional information available from other sources. The universal social graph database may include other information such as for example private information received from the client . The private and public information may be matched within the universal social graph database using the universal social graph generating module .

The pathway generating module may be used to create a pathway to certain targets based on search criteria submitted from the search criteria module . The ranking generating module may generate a ranking value for at least one of the pathways. The ranking value and the pathways may be displayed for viewing.

The system may have various applications outside of applications to contacts and how people meet certain search criteria. For example the system may be applicable to travel related applications such as for example searching for airline flights that meet search criteria e.g. flights on a certain day within a certain time range with a minimum number of connecting flights that don t go through a particular city and have delays no more than X hours . Each of the search criteria may be ranked with a priority value which is taken into consideration when creating a ranking value. The ranking value may also depend at least in part on whether or not certain of the search criteria are met. In some examples not all search criteria is met and the ranking value may be placed at 0 wherein in other examples meeting each one of the search criteria increases the ranking value above 0.

In another example application the search criteria relate to vacation destinations that meet certain criteria such as for example average winter temperature proximity to beaches average cost of housing local tax rate etc. Other applications include telecommunications connections prospect identification in a sales context recruit identification in a recruiting context portfolio and or investment opportunities in an investing context job identification in a job search context professional services searching dating services and genealogy searching.

Referring to example method implementing the system of includes establishing at least one search criteria for a user to find a target in a first operational step . In a further step the method includes retrieving public information relating to the search criteria from publicly available sources. In an operational step the method includes creating at least one pathway to the user defined target that meets the search criteria. The method includes generating a ranking value for the at least one pathway in a step and displaying the ranking value in a step .

The systems may implement an automated prioritization system for a user or a group of users based on connectivity to a particular item of interest. The group or individual may define targets or entities of interest. The group may also specify filter and search conditions permitted in finding connectivity. These targets may be automatically prioritized by computing a value of the target based on network connectivity to the target.

The processes implemented by the systems may involve a user interacting with the system by uploading information about themselves. This information may include user preferences and if applicable include information about direct relationships. In the case where targets are people such as the system the system may allow uploading personal connections from social networks and contact management systems customers they have worked with hobbies groups and any relationship information. This information may then be used to connect the user or group of users to the targets. Users may also be allowed to upload preferences about the connectivity or target. The user preferences may eliminate a number of targets when the target description is generic. For a system connecting people a generic description of a target may include for example anyone in a particular zip code with a given current job title.

Users may specify criteria to eliminate possible connections. One example includes not connecting through any person who worked at a particular company or not traveling through a certain airport to get to a destination. All user specific information may be considered when finding a connectivity score or ranking value from the user to the target or just to the target. The resulting connection paths may be summarized into a score or value. This score or value may be computed based on for example the strength of multiple paths to the target the number of paths to the target and the varying length of paths to the target.

The systems may use not only direct connections to a target but also assess multiple degree paths to the target. For a system connecting people this may include a personal contact or friend on a social network who is on the board of directors for a particular company which company employs an employee who used to work at the same company as the target.

The systems may be primed with information related to the target s domain. This information for the domain is usually linked in a data system so that it can be traversed. A user s target request may be uploaded and stored by the systems . A user s search preferences may be registered globally and for each search. Tasks may be created for each requested target. A cloud distributed graph database created by the universal social graph generating modules may pull the targets and run an algorithm to compute the connection strength or ranking value for each value. The resulting connection score or ranking value and associated path may be stored for retrieval and visualization. As discussed above the systems may be operable using the Internet or as an API. The system may be able integrate into domain specific applications. In a case where the entity target is people integrations may be made to email clients browsers messaging systems and contact management systems.

Another example application of the systems is with a sales person and his her sales prospects. The system may permit the system user to receive an automated ranking value for each sales prospect based on the user s connectivity to each sales prospect. This connectivity is computed by the system based on relationship information e.g. work history interests schools education connecting directly to the prospect or connecting to other people who connect to the prospect. Based on the strength and length of multiple paths found an overall score or ranking value may be assigned to each prospect. Integration of the systems through APIs permits the scores to be retrieved by the integrating system. The integration may also permit visualization of each score to be retrieved and shown upon request.

Each score may be explained in greater detail by requesting the connection paths used to create the score or ranking. The system may return both a text description of the paths and a visualization of the connection paths or pathways. A collection of connection pathways may be summarized into a score based on the individual strength of each connection within a single path the lengths of the path the number of paths returned that meet the user s criteria and other path characteristics. This visual display may be embedded in integrating applications. The integrated applications may also use a text description of the pathway and display any information desired to the user.

The ranking value generated by the ranking generating module may be updated automatically based on on going collection of information by the universal social graph platform . In one example public information is continuously gathered from the Internet and other public information and the ranking generating module at least periodically updates the ranking values based on the updated information collected. The updates to the ranking value and associated pathways created by the pathway generating module may include both public and private information. In one example additional private information received by the universal social graph platform may prompt updates to the ranking value and pathways created by the ranking system .

The ranking systems may operate or be synchronized with other aspects of a universal social graph created by the universal social graph generating module . Other example modules and functionality with which the ranking system may operate is disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 907 861 entitled Systems and Methods for Generating and Managing a Universal Social Graph Database and filed on Oct. 19 2010 which is incorporated herein in its entirety by this reference.

Bus allows data communication between central processor and system memory which may include read only memory ROM or flash memory neither shown and random access memory RAM not shown as previously noted. The RAM is generally the main memory into which the operating system and application programs are loaded. The ROM or flash memory can contain among other code the Basic Input Output system BIOS which controls basic hardware operation such as the interaction with peripheral components or devices. For example a universal social graph generating module or universal social graph generating modules a ranking generating module or ranking generating module and a pathway generating module or pathway generating module may be used to implement the present systems and methods may be stored within the system memory . Applications resident with computer system are generally stored on and accessed via a computer readable medium such as a hard disk drive e.g. fixed disk an optical drive e.g. optical drive a floppy disk unit or other storage medium. Additionally applications can be in the form of electronic signals modulated in accordance with the application and data communication technology when accessed via network modem or interface .

Storage interface as with the other storage interfaces of computer system can connect to a standard computer readable medium for storage and or retrieval of information such as a fixed disk drive . Fixed disk drive may be a part of computer system or may be separate and accessed through other interface systems. Modem may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a telephone link or to the Internet via an Internet service provider ISP . Network interface may provide a direct connection to a remote server via a direct network link to the Internet via a POP point of presence . Network interface may provide such connection using wireless techniques including digital cellular telephone connection Cellular Digital Packet Data CDPD connection digital satellite data connection or the like.

Many other devices or subsystems not shown may be connected in a similar manner e.g. document scanners digital cameras and so on . Conversely all of the devices shown in need not be present to practice the present disclosure. The devices and subsystems can be interconnected in different ways from that shown in . The operation of a computer system such as that shown in is readily known in the art and is not discussed in detail in this application. Code to implement the present disclosure can be stored in computer readable storage media such as one or more of system memory fixed disk optical disk or floppy disk . The operating system provided on computer system may be MS DOS MS WINDOWS OS 2 UNIX Linux or another known operating system.

Moreover regarding the signals described herein those skilled in the art will recognize that a signal can be directly transmitted from a first block to a second block or a signal can be modified e.g. amplified attenuated delayed latched buffered inverted filtered or otherwise modified between the blocks. Although the signals of the above described embodiment are characterized as transmitted from one block to the next other embodiments of the present disclosure may include modified signals in place of such directly transmitted signals as long as the informational and or functional aspect of the signal is transmitted between blocks. To some extent a signal input at a second block can be conceptualized as a second signal derived from a first signal output from a first block due to physical limitations of the circuitry involved e.g. there will inevitably be some attenuation and delay . Therefore as used herein a second signal derived from a first signal includes the first signal or any modifications to the first signal whether due to circuit limitations or due to passage through other circuit elements which do not change the informational and or final functional aspect of the first signal.

With reference to computer system modem network interface or some other method can be used to provide connectivity from each of client computer systems and to network . Client systems and are able to access information on storage server A or B using for example a web browser or other client software not shown . Such a client allows client systems and to access data hosted by storage server A or B or one of storage devices A N B N N or intelligent storage array . depicts the use of a network such as the Internet for exchanging data but the present disclosure is not limited to the Internet or any particular network based environment.

While the foregoing disclosure sets forth various embodiments using specific block diagrams flowcharts and examples each block diagram component flowchart step operation and or component described and or illustrated herein may be implemented individually and or collectively using a wide range of hardware software or firmware or any combination thereof configurations. In addition any disclosure of components contained within other components should be considered exemplary in nature since many other architectures can be implemented to achieve the same functionality.

The process parameters and sequence of steps described and or illustrated herein are given by way of example only and can be varied as desired. For example while the steps illustrated and or described herein may be shown or discussed in a particular order these steps do not necessarily need to be performed in the order illustrated or discussed. The various exemplary methods described and or illustrated herein may also omit one or more of the steps described or illustrated herein or include additional steps in addition to those disclosed.

Furthermore while various embodiments have been described and or illustrated herein in the context of fully functional computing systems one or more of these exemplary embodiments may be distributed as a program product in a variety of forms regardless of the particular type of computer readable media used to actually carry out the distribution. The embodiments disclosed herein may also be implemented using software modules that perform certain tasks. These software modules may include script batch or other executable files that may be stored on a computer readable storage medium or in a computing system. In some embodiments these software modules may configure a computing system to perform one or more of the exemplary embodiments disclosed herein.

The foregoing description for purpose of explanation has been described with reference to specific embodiments. However the illustrative discussions above are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in view of the above teachings. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the present systems and methods and their practical applications to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the present systems and methods and various embodiments with various modifications as may be suited to the particular use contemplated.

Unless otherwise noted the terms a or as used in the specification and claims are to be construed as meaning at least one of. In addition for ease of use the words including and having as used in the specification and claims are interchangeable with and have the same meaning as the word comprising. 

