---

title: Methods of treating drug-resistant cancers
abstract: Methods of treating a refractory or drug resistant cancer, cell proliferative disorder and tumor cells are provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08512707&OS=08512707&RS=08512707
owner: Seattle Genetics, Inc.
number: 08512707
owner_city: Bothell
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100419
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 677 029 filed Feb. 20 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 750 116 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 774 446 filed Feb. 18 2006 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

This application includes a sequence listing as a text file named 1000 00912US ST25 created Apr. 19 2010. The material contained in this text file is incorporated by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

Among the barriers to successful cancer therapy is the development of drug resistance by tumors. Drug resistance can be mediated by many mechanisms. Of the cell based mechanisms ATP driven xenobiotic efflux of drugs is mediated by P glycoprotein also referred to herein as P gp the product of the mdrl gene. P gp is found on a variety of normal tissues including endothelium and biliary duct cells. P gp is a member of a large family of ATP binding cassette proteins many of which are responsible for removal of toxic substances to the extracellular space.

P gp recognizes and removes molecules which share characteristics including hydrophobic structures and large ring systems. Many drugs used in the treatment of cancer are P gp substrates. Thus one mechanism of cell based resistance is drug export by P gp. Such resistance can be conferred by mutation of P gp to increase the affinity of P gp for the drug molecule by increasing the rate of transporter function and or by increasing the number of P gp transporters per cell. The latter mechanism is most often mediated by gene amplification. To overcome P gp mediated resistance inhibitors of P gp can be used. However the efficacy of such inhibitors can be limited due to mutation of the P gp transporter and or gene amplification resulting in increased wild type or mutant P gp transporters at the cell surface. Administration of P gp inhibitors also can be associated with toxicity in patients.

Therefore the development of drugs that can circumvent P gp mediated drug resistance could have significant clinical benefit.

The present invention provides methods of treating a patient that has a drug resistant cancer such as a tumor hematologic disease or cell proliferative disorder. In one aspect a method is provided for treating drug resistant cancer cells in a patient in need of such treatment. The method includes evaluating whether the patient has a drug resistant cancer and if the patient has a drug resistant cancer administering to the patient an effective amount of a Drug Linker Ligand conjugate of the formula L LU D I

The patient can be monitored to determine the status of the cancer following administration of the Drug Linker Ligand conjugate. In some embodiments the Drug unit is MMAF or a cytotoxic derivative thereof wherein the Drug unit kills or inhibits the proliferation of the cancer cells.

The Ligand unit can be an antibody or a non antibody molecule. Suitable antibodies include for example monoclonal antibodies such as chimeric humanized or human antibodies or an antigen binding fragment thereof. In some embodiments the Ligand unit comprises an antigen binding region that binds to a target antigen. In some embodiments the Ligand unit is an antibody or antibody fragment such as AC10 BR96 1F6 or 2F2. In some embodiments the Ligand unit is a humanized or chimeric derivative of an antibody such as AC10 BR96 1F6 or 2F2. In some embodiments the Ligand unit is a growth inhibitory antibody.

In some embodiments the Drug Linker Ligand conjugate induces cell death. In some embodiments the Drug Linker Ligand conjugate induces apoptosis.

In some embodiments about 2 to about 8 Linker Drug units are conjugated to the Ligand unit. In other embodiments 2 to 6 or 2 to 4 Linker Drug units are conjugated to the Ligand unit.

The number of Amino Acid units w can be for example 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 or 12 and the like. In one group of embodiments w is 2.

Wcan be for example valine citrulline 5 aminovaleric acid homo phenylalanine lysine tetraisoquinolinecarboxylate lysine cyclohexylalanine lysine isonepecotic acid lysine beta alanine lysine glycine serine valine glutamine SEQ ID NO 1 or isonepecotic acid.

In some embodiments the Drug Linker Ligand conjugate has the formula selected from the group consisting of 

In some embodiments a substantial amount of the Drug unit is not cleaved from the Drug Linker Ligand conjugate until the conjugate enters a cell with a cell surface receptor specific for the Ligand unit and the Drug unit is cleaved from the Ligand unit when the Drug Linker Ligand conjugate enters the cell. In some embodiments a substantial amount of the Linker Drug unit is not cleaved from the Drug Linker Ligand conjugate until the conjugate enters a cell with a cell surface receptor specific for the Ligand unit and the Linker Drug unit is cleaved from the Ligand unit when the Drug Linker Ligand conjugate enters the cell.

In some embodiments the bioavailability of the Drug unit or an intracellular metabolite of the Drug unit in a patient is improved when compared to an unconjugated Drug unit. In some embodiments the bioavailability of the Linker Drug unit or an intracellular metabolite of the Linker Drug unit in a patient is improved when compared to an unconjugated Drug unit.

In some embodiments the bioavailability of the Drug Linker Ligand conjugate or an intracellular metabolite of the Drug Linker Ligand conjugate in a mammal is improved when compared to an analog of the Drug Linker Ligand conjugate not having the Drug unit.

In some embodiments the Drug Linker Ligand conjugate is administered as a pharmaceutical composition comprising an effective amount of the Drug Linker Ligand conjugate or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable diluent carrier or excipient.

In some embodiments another therapeutic agent such as a chemotherapeutic agent can also be administered to the patient. In some embodiments the cancer is a solid tumor. In some embodiments the cancer is a hematological cancer. In some embodiments the cancer is a cell proliferative disorder. In some embodiments the cancer is breast ovarian stomach endometrial salivary gland lung kidney colon colorectal thyroid pancreatic prostate or bladder cancer. In some embodiments cells of a cancer a tumor or a cell proliferative disorder are contacted with a Drug Linker Ligand conjugate.

The present invention provides methods of treating a patient that has a relapsed or refractory cancer cell proliferative disorder or tumor. The invention is based on the surprising and unexpected discovery that certain auristatins are effective for treating drug resistant cancers cell proliferative disorder and tumors. Unless otherwise indicated by context the term cancer as used herein refers to cancer cell proliferative disorder or tumor. Similarly cancer cells refer to cells of a cancer cell proliferative disorder or tumor unless otherwise indicated by context. The auristatin derivatives accumulate in drug resistant cells. As used herein a drug resistant or refractory cancer cell proliferative disorder or tumor refers to a refractory cancer cell proliferative disorder or tumor which cells exhibit reduced cytotoxicity to a drug that is a substrate for the MDR1 P glycoprotein or P gp transporter enzyme due to P gp expression or overexpression as compared to a comparable sensitive cells.

Also provided are methods of treating refractory cancer cells in a patient in need of such treatment e.g. a mammal such as a human by administering an effective amount of an auristatin. As used herein refractory cancer cells and drug resistant cancer cells refer to cells that have elevated levels of P gp transport enzymes on the cell surface that are determined to express elevated levels of P gp enzyme by standard methods and or that exhibit reduced cytotoxicity to drugs that are substrates for MDR1 P gp as compared with equivalent cancer cells otherwise typically deemed sensitive to such drugs. Examples of refractory cancer cells which may be treated include but are not limited to adenocarcinoma cells derived from adrenal kidney liver small intestine and colon tissue pancreatic cancer cells carcinoid cells chronic myelogenous leukemia cells in blast crisis non small cell lung carcinoma cells neuroblastoma cells pheochromocytoma cells multiple myeloma cells adult acute lymphocytic leukemia cells adult acute nonlymphocytic leukemia cells nodular poorly differentiated lymphoma cells ocular melanoma cells skin melanoma cells uterine melanoma cells breast cancer cells and ovarian cancer cells and metastatic cells see also infra .

In some embodiments the auristatin derivative is MMAF N methylvaline valine dolaisoleuine dolaproine phenylalanine or a derivative thereof. MMAF can be as potent against drug resistant cell lines as against the parental strains. This difference in potency is due to the zwitterionic charge on MMAF. The charged nature of MMAF allows it to escape recognition and transport by the efflux transporter P gp and allow it to remain in the cell. Therefore MMAF and zwitterionic derivatives thereof accumulate to higher intracellular concentrations and result in cell death. In one aspect the drug is not a good substrate for P gp. In another aspect the drug is a poor substrate for P gp.

In one aspect a method of treating drug resistant cancer cells is provided. In one embodiment the method comprises administering to a patient an effective amount of MMAF or a derivative thereof to the patient having drug resistant cancer cells. The drug is typically administered as a Drug Linker Ligand conjugate or a Drug Linker conjugate. In some embodiments the conjugate is an antibody or antibody fragment drug conjugate.

In another embodiment the method includes a evaluating the patient to determine if the patient has a refractory or drug resistant cancer b administering an effective amount of MMAF or a derivative thereof to the patient and c monitoring the patient to determine the status of the cancer. The drug is typically administered as a Drug Linker Ligand conjugate or a Drug Linker conjugate such as an antibody drug conjugate.

Ris selected from H C Calkyl C Ccarbocycle aryl C Calkyl aryl C Calkyl C Ccarbocycle C Cheterocycle and C Calkyl C Cheterocycle 

Ris selected from H C Calkyl C Ccarbocycle aryl C Calkyl aryl C Calkyl C Ccarbocycle C Cheterocycle and C Calkyl C Cheterocycle 

or Rand Rjointly form a carbocyclic ring and have the formula CRR wherein Rand Rare independently selected from H C Calkyl and C Ccarbocycle and n1 is selected from 2 3 4 5 and 6 

Ris selected from H C Calkyl C Ccarbocycle aryl C Calkyl aryl C Calkyl C Ccarbocycle C Cheterocycle and C Calkyl C Cheterocycle 

In some embodiments the Drug unit has a zwitterionic charge or is metabolized inside the cell to form a zwitterionic compound.

In some embodiments the Drug unit has a zwitterionic charge or is metabolized inside the cell to form a zwitterionic compound.

In any of the above examples the drug loading is represented by p the average number of drug molecules per Ligand unit e.g. an antibody drug conjugate or ADC . Drug loading may range from 1 to 20 drugs D per Ligand unit e.g. an antibody . In some embodiments p is 2 4 6 or 8. The average number of drugs per Ligand unit in preparation of conjugation reactions may be characterized by conventional means such as mass spectroscopy ELISA assay and HPLC. The quantitative distribution of a Drug Linker Ligand conjugate or a Drug Linker conjugate in terms of p may also be determined. In some instances separation purification and characterization of homogeneous Drug Linker Ligand conjugates or Drug Linker conjugates where p is a certain value from Drug Linker Ligand conjugates with other drug loadings may be achieved by means such as reverse phase HPLC or electrophoresis.

For some Drug Linker Ligand conjugates where the Ligand unit is an antibody or antibody fragment p is determined by the number of attachment sites on the antibody. For example where the attachment is a cysteine thiol as in the exemplary embodiments above an antibody may have only one or several cysteine thiol groups or may have only one or several sufficiently reactive thiol groups through which a linker may be attached. In some embodiments p is 2 4 6 or 8.

Typically fewer than the theoretical maximum of drug moieties are conjugated to an antibody during a conjugation reaction. An antibody may contain for example many lysine residues that do not react with the drug linker intermediate or linker reagent. Only the most reactive lysine groups may react with an amine reactive linker reagent. Generally antibodies do not contain many if any free and reactive cysteine thiol groups which may be linked to a drug moiety. Most cysteine thiol residues in the antibodies of the compounds of the invention exist as disulfide bridges e.g. interchain or intrachain and can be reduced with a reducing agent such as dithiothreitol DTT . Additionally the antibody can be subjected to denaturing conditions to reveal reactive nucleophilic groups such as lysine or cysteine. The loading drug antibody ratio of an ADC may be controlled in several different manners including i limiting the molar excess of drug linker intermediate or linker reagent relative to antibody ii limiting the conjugation reaction time or temperature and iii partial or limiting reductive conditions for cysteine thiol modification.

It is to be understood that where more than one nucleophilic group reacts with a drug linker intermediate or linker reagent followed by drug moiety reagent then the resulting product is a mixture of Drug Linker Ligand conjugates with a distribution of one or more drug moieties attached to a Ligand. The average number of drugs per antibody may be calculated from the mixture by dual ELISA antibody assay specific for a Ligand and specific for the drug. Individual Drug Linker Ligand molecules may be identified in the mixture by mass spectroscopy and separated by HPLC e.g. hydrophobic interaction chromatography Effect of drug loading on the pharmacology pharmacokinetics and toxicity of an anti CD30 antibody drug conjugate Hamblett et al Abstract No. 624 American Association for Cancer Research 2004 Annual Meeting Mar. 27 31 2004 Proceedings of the AACR Volume 45 March 2004 and Controlling the Location of Drug Attachment in Antibody Drug Conjugates Alley et al Abstract No. 627 American Association for Cancer Research 2004 Annual Meeting Mar. 27 31 2004 Proceedings of the AACR Volume 45 March 2004 . Thus a homogeneous Drug Linker Ligand conjugate with a single loading value may be isolated from the conjugation mixture by electrophoresis or chromatography.

The Ligand unit L includes within its scope any unit of a Ligand L that binds or reactively associates or complexes with a receptor antigen or other receptive moiety associated with a given target cell population. In one aspect the Ligand unit acts to deliver the Drug unit to the particular target cell population with which the Ligand unit reacts. Such Ligands include but are not limited to large molecular weight proteins such as for example full length antibodies antibody fragments smaller molecular weight proteins polypeptide or peptides lectins glycoproteins non peptides vitamins nutrient transport molecules such as but not limited to transferrin or any other cell binding molecule or substance.

A Ligand unit can form a bond to a Linker unit e.g. a Stretcher unit an Amino Acid unit and or a Spacer Unit or to a Drug Unit. For example a Ligand unit can form a bond to a Linker unit via a heteroatom of the Ligand. Heteroatoms that may be present on a Ligand unit include for example sulfur e.g. from a sulfhydryl group of a Ligand oxygen e.g. from a carbonyl carboxyl or hydroxyl group of a Ligand and nitrogen e.g. from a primary or secondary amino group of a Ligand . These heteroatoms can be present on the Ligand in the Ligand s natural state for example a naturally occurring antibody or can be introduced into the Ligand via chemical modification.

In one embodiment a Ligand unit has a sulfhydryl group and the Ligand unit bonds to the Linker unit via the sulfhydryl group s sulfur atom.

In yet another aspect the Ligand unit has one or more lysine residues that can be chemically modified to introduce one or more sulfhydryl groups. The Ligand unit bonds to the Linker unit via the sulfhydryl group s sulfur atom. The reagents that can be used to modify lysines include but are not limited to N succinimidyl S acetylthioacetate SATA and 2 Iminothiolane hydrochloride Traut s Reagent .

In another embodiment the Ligand unit can have one or more carbohydrate groups that can be chemically modified to have one or more sulfhydryl groups. The Ligand unit bonds to the Linker Unit such as a Stretcher Unit via the sulfhydryl group s sulfur atom.

In yet another embodiment the Ligand unit can have one or more carbohydrate groups that can be oxidized to provide an aldehyde CHO group see e.g. Laguzza et al. 1989 J. Med. Chem. 32 3 548 55 . The corresponding aldehyde can form a bond with a reactive site on a Stretcher. Reactive sites on a Stretcher that can react with a carbonyl group on a Ligand unit include but are not limited to hydrazine and hydroxylamine. Other protocols for the modification of proteins for the attachment or association of Drug units are described in Coligan et al. Current Protocols in Protein Science vol. 2 John Wiley Sons 2002 incorporated herein by reference.

In yet other embodiments the Ligand unit can be linked to a Linker unit or a Drug unit at an amino and or carboxy terminus.

Useful non immunoreactive protein polypeptide or peptide Ligands include but are not limited to transferrin epidermal growth factors EGF bombesin gastrin gastrin releasing peptide platelet derived growth factor IL 2 IL 6 transforming growth factors TGF such as TGF and TGF vaccinia growth factor VGF insulin and insulin like growth factors I and II lectins and apoprotein from low density lipoprotein.

In some embodiments the Ligand unit is an antibody or antibody fragment. Useful polyclonal antibodies are heterogeneous populations of antibody molecules derived from the sera of immunized animals. Various procedures well known in the art may be used for the production of polyclonal antibodies to a target antigen e.g. a cancer cell antigen a protein a peptide a carbohydrate a chemical nucleic acid or fragments thereof . For example for the production of polyclonal antibodies various host animals can be immunized by injection with an antigen of interest or derivative thereof including but not limited to rabbits mice rats and guinea pigs. Various adjuvants may be used to increase the immunological response depending on the host species including but not limited to Freund s complete and incomplete adjuvant mineral gels such as aluminum hydroxide surface active substances such as lysolecithin pluronic polyols polyanions peptides oil emulsions keyhole limpet hemocyanins dinitrophenol and potentially useful human adjuvants such as BCG bacille Calmette Guerin and corynebacterium parvum. Such adjuvants are also well known in the art.

Useful monoclonal antibodies are homogeneous populations of antibodies to a particular antigenic determinant of a target antigen e.g. a cancer cell antigen a protein a peptide a carbohydrate a chemical nucleic acid or fragments thereof . A monoclonal antibody mAb to a target antigen can be prepared by using any technique known in the art which provides for the production of antibody molecules by continuous cell lines in culture. These include but are not limited to the hybridoma technique originally described by K hler and Milstein 1975 Nature 256 495 497 the human B cell hybridoma technique Kozbor et al. 1983 Immunology Today 4 72 and the EBV hybridoma technique Cole et al. 1985 Monoclonal Antibodies and Cancer Therapy Alan R. Liss Inc. pp. 77 96 . Monoclonal antibodies also can be made by recombinant DNA methods see e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 . Monoclonal antibodies may also be isolated from phage antibody libraries using the techniques described in Clackson et al. 1991 Nature 352 624 628 and Marks et al. 1991 J. Mol. Biol. 222 581 597 for example. The antibodies may be of any immunoglobulin class including IgG IgM IgE IgA and IgD and any subclass thereof. The hybridoma producing the mAbs of use in this invention may be cultivated in vitro or in vivo.

Useful monoclonal antibodies include but are not limited to human monoclonal antibodies humanized monoclonal antibodies antibody fragments or chimeric e.g. human mouse or other species monoclonal antibodies. Human monoclonal antibodies may be made by any of numerous techniques known in the art see e.g. Teng et al. 1983 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 80 7308 7312 Kozbor et al. 1983 Immunology Today 4 72 79 and Olsson et al. 1982 Meth. Enzymol. 92 3 16 .

The antibody can also be a multispecific antibody such as a bispecific antibody. Methods for making bispecific antibodies are known in the art. Traditional production of full length bispecific antibodies is based on the coexpression of two immunoglobulin heavy chain light chain pairs where the two chains have different specificities Milstein et al. 1983 Nature 305 537 539 . Because of the random assortment of immunoglobulin heavy and light chains these hybridomas quadromas produce a potential mixture of 10 different antibody molecules. Procedures are disclosed in International Publication No. WO 93 08829 and in Traunecker et al. EMBO J. 10 3655 3659 1991 .

According to a different approach antibody variable domains with the desired binding specificities antibody antigen combining sites are fused to an immunoglobulin constant domain sequence s . The fusion can be with one or more immunoglobulin heavy chain constant domains e.g. hinge C1 C2 C3 and or C4 regions or at least part of the hinge C2 C3 and or C4 regions. In some embodiments the first heavy chain constant region C1 containing the site necessary for light chain binding is present in at least one of the fusions. Nucleic acids with sequences encoding the immunoglobulin heavy chain fusions and if desired the immunoglobulin light chain are inserted into separate expression vectors and are co transfected into a suitable host organism. This provides for great flexibility in adjusting the mutual proportions of the three polypeptide fragments in embodiments when unequal ratios of the three polypeptide chains used in the construction provide the optimum yields. It is however possible to insert the coding sequences for two or all three polypeptide chains in one expression vector when the expression of at least two polypeptide chains in equal ratios results in high yields or when the ratios are of no particular significance.

In an embodiment of this approach the bispecific antibodies have a hybrid immunoglobulin heavy chain with a first binding specificity in one arm and a hybrid immunoglobulin heavy chain light chain pair providing a second binding specificity in the other arm. This asymmetric structure facilitates the separation of the desired bispecific compound from unwanted immunoglobulin chain combinations as the presence of an immunoglobulin light chain in one half of the bispecific molecule provides for a facile way of separation e.g. International Publication No. WO 94 04690 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety .

For further details for generating bispecific antibodies see for example Suresh et al. 1986 Methods in Enzymology 121 210 Rodrigues et al. 1993 J. Immunology 151 6954 6961 Carter et al. 1992 Bio Technology 10 163 167 Carter et al. 1995 J. Hematotherapy 4 463 470 and Merchant et al. 1998 Nature Biotechnology 16 677 681. Using such techniques bispecific antibodies can be prepared for use in the treatment or prevention of disease as defined herein.

Bifunctional antibodies are also described in European Patent Publication No. EP 0 105 360. As disclosed in this reference hybrid or bifunctional antibodies can be derived either biologically i.e. by cell fusion techniques or chemically especially with cross linking agents or disulfide bridge forming reagents and may comprise whole antibodies or fragments thereof. Methods for obtaining such hybrid antibodies are disclosed for example in International Publication WO 83 03679 and European Patent Publication No. EP 0 217 577 both of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Additionally recombinant antibodies such as chimeric and humanized monoclonal antibodies comprising both human and non human portions which can be made using standard recombinant DNA techniques are useful antibodies. A chimeric antibody is a molecule in which different portions are derived from different animal species such as those having a variable region derived from a murine monoclonal and human immunoglobulin constant regions. See e.g. Cabilly et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 and Boss et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 397 which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. Humanized antibodies are antibody molecules from non human species having one or more complementarity determining regions CDRs from the non human species and a framework region from a human immunoglobulin molecule. See e.g. Queen U.S. Pat. No. 5 585 089 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety. Such chimeric and humanized monoclonal antibodies can be produced by recombinant DNA techniques known in the art for example using methods described in International Publication No. WO 87 02671 European Patent Publication No. 0 184 187 European Patent Publication No. 0 171 496 European Patent Publication No. 173 494 International Publication No. WO 86 01533 U.S. Pat. No. 4 816 567 European Patent Publication No. 12 023 Berter et al. 1988 Science 240 1041 1043 Liu et al. 1987 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 84 3439 3443 Liu et al. 1987 J. Immunol. 139 3521 3526 Sun et al. 1987 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 84 214 218 Nishimura et al. 1987 Cancer. Res. 47 999 1005 Wood et al. 1985 Nature 314 446 449 Shaw et al. 1988 J. Natl. Cancer Inst. 80 1553 1559 Morrison 1985 Science 229 1202 1207 Oi et al. 1986 BioTechniques 4 214 U.S. Pat. No. 5 225 539 Jones et al. 1986 Nature 321 552 525 Verhoeyan et al. 1988 Science 239 1534 and Beidler et al. 1988 J. Immunol. 141 4053 4060 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Completely human antibodies are particularly desirable and can be produced using transgenic mice that are incapable of expressing endogenous immunoglobulin heavy and light chains genes but which can express human heavy and light chain genes. The transgenic mice are immunized in the normal fashion with a selected antigen e.g. all or a portion of a target polypeptide. Monoclonal antibodies directed against the antigen can be obtained using conventional hybridoma technology. The human immunoglobulin transgenes harbored by the transgenic mice rearrange during B cell differentiation and subsequently undergo class switching and somatic mutation. Thus using such a technique it is possible to produce therapeutically useful IgG IgA IgM and IgE antibodies. For an overview of this technology for producing human antibodies see Lonberg and Huszar 1995 Int. Rev. Immunol. 13 65 93 . For a detailed discussion of this technology for producing human antibodies and human monoclonal antibodies and protocols for producing such antibodies see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 625 126 5 633 425 5 569 825 5 661 016 and 5 545 806 each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety . Other human antibodies can be obtained commercially from for example Medarex Inc. Princeton N.J. .

Completely human antibodies that recognize a selected epitope can be generated using a technique referred to as guided selection. In this approach a selected non human monoclonal antibody e.g. a mouse antibody is used to guide the selection of a completely human antibody recognizing the same epitope. See e.g. Jespers et al. 1994 Biotechnology 12 899 903. Human antibodies can also be produced using various techniques known in the art including phage display libraries see e.g. Hoogenboom and Winter 1991 J. Mol. Biol. 227 381 Marks et al. 1991 J. Mol. Biol. 222 581 Quan M. P. and Carter P. 2002 The rise of monoclonal antibodies as therapeutics In Anti IgE and Allergic Disease Jardieu P. M. and Fick Jr. R. B eds. Marcel Dekker New York N.Y. Chapter 20 pp. 427 469 .

The antibody can be a functionally active fragment derivative or analog as further discussed infra of an antibody that immunospecifically binds to a cancer cell antigen or other antibodies bound to tumor cells or matrix. In this regard functionally active means that the fragment derivative or analog is able to elicit anti anti idiotype antibodies that recognize the same antigen that the antibody from which the fragment derivative or analog is derived recognized. Specifically in an exemplary embodiment the antigenicity of the idiotype of the immunoglobulin molecule can be enhanced by deletion of framework and CDR sequences that are C terminal to the CDR sequence that specifically recognizes the antigen. To determine which CDR sequences bind the antigen synthetic peptides containing the CDR sequences can be used in binding assays with the antigen by any binding assay method known in the art e.g. the BIA core assay see e.g. Kabat et al. 1991 Sequences of Proteins of Immunological Interest Fifth Edition National Institute of Health Bethesda Md. Kabat E et al. 1980 J. Immunology 125 3 961 969 .

In some embodiments the antibody fragment is an Fv Fab Fab or an F ab . Other useful antibodies are heavy chain and light chain dimers of antibodies single chain antibodies SCAs e.g. as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 946 778 Bird 1988 Science 242 423 42 Huston et al. 1988 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 85 5879 5883 and Ward et al. 1989 Nature 334 544 54 a minibody a diabody a triabody a tetrabody a dsFv an sc Fv Fc an scFv a fragment produced by a Fab expression library an anti idiotypic anti Id antibody or multispecific antibodies formed from antibody fragment s .

In other embodiments the antibody is a fusion protein of an antibody or a functionally active fragment thereof for example in which the antibody is fused via a covalent bond e.g. a peptide bond at either the N terminus or the C terminus to an amino acid sequence of another protein or portion thereof preferably at least 10 20 or 50 amino acid portion of the protein that is not the antibody. Preferably the antibody or fragment thereof is covalently linked to the other protein at the C terminus of the constant domain.

Antibodies include analogs and derivatives that are either modified i.e. by the covalent attachment of any type of molecule as long as such covalent attachment permits the antibody to retain its antigen binding immunospecificity. For example but not by way of limitation the derivatives and analogs of the antibodies include those that have been further modified e.g. by glycosylation acetylation pegylation phosphorylation amidation derivatization by known protecting blocking groups proteolytic cleavage linkage to a cellular antibody unit or other protein etc. Any of numerous chemical modifications can be carried out by known techniques including but not limited to specific chemical cleavage acetylation formylation metabolic synthesis in the presence of tunicamycin etc. Additionally the analog or derivative can contain one or more unnatural amino acids.

The antibodies can have modifications e.g. substitutions deletions or additions in amino acid residues that interact with Fc receptors. In particular the antibodies can have modifications in amino acid residues identified as involved in the interaction between the anti Fc domain and the FcRn receptor see e.g. International Publication No. WO 97 34631 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety .

Antibodies immunospecific for a cancer cell antigen can be obtained commercially or produced by any method known to one of skill in the art such as e.g. chemical synthesis or recombinant expression techniques. The nucleotide sequence encoding antibodies immunospecific for a cancer cell antigen can be obtained e.g. from the GenBank database or a database like in literature publications or by routine cloning and sequencing.

Antibodies that may be useful in the treatment of cancer include but are not limited to antibodies against tumor associated antigens TAA such as an antigen expressed on a cancer cell a cell of a cell proliferative disorder or a tumor cell. Tumor associated polypeptides are more abundantly expressed on the surface of the cancer cells as compared to on the surface of the non cancerous cells. Such tumor associated antigens are known in the art and can be prepared for use in generating antibodies using methods and information which are well known in the art.

Virtually any target protein can be targeted by an antibody including any target protein which expression is correlated with expression on cells of a cancer cell proliferative disorder or tumor. Suitable target proteins include human tumor antigens recognized by T cells Robbins and Kawakami 1996 Cum Opin. Immunol. 8 628 636 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety melanocyte lineage proteins including gp100 MART 1 MelanA TRP 1 gp75 tyrosinase Tumor specific widely shared antigens MAGE 1 MAGE 3 BAGE GAGE 1 N acetylglucosaminyltransferase V p15 Tumor specific mutated antigens beta catenin MUM 1 CDK4 Nonmelanoma antigens for breast ovarian cervical and pancreatic carcinoma HER 2 neu human papillomavirus E6 E7 MUC 1 cancer antigens such as KS 1 4 pan carcinoma antigen Perez and Walker 1990 J. Immunol. 142 3662 3667 Bumal 1988 Hybridoma 7 4 407 415 ovarian carcinoma antigen CA125 Yu et al. 1991 Cancer Res. 51 2 468 475 prostatic acid phosphate Tailor et al. 1990 Nucl. Acids Res. 18 16 4928 prostate specific antigen Henttu and Vihko 1989 Biochem. Biophys. Res. Comm. 160 2 903 910 Israeli et al. 1993 Cancer Res. 53 227 230 melanoma associated antigen p97 Estin et al. 1989 J. Natl. Cancer Instit. 81 6 445 446 melanoma antigen gp75 Vijayasardahl et al. 1990 J. Exp. Med. 171 4 1375 1380 high molecular weight melanoma antigen HMW MAA Natali et al. 1987 Cancer 59 55 63 Mittelman et al. 1990 J. Clin. Invest. 86 2136 2144 prostate specific membrane antigen carcinoembryonic antigen CEA Foon et al. 1994 Proc. Am. Soc. Clin. Oncol. 13 294 polymorphic epithelial mucin antigen human milk fat globule antigen a colorectal tumor associated antigen such as CEA TAG 72 Yokata et al. 1992 Cancer Res. 52 3402 3408 CO 17 1A Ragnhammar et al. 1993 Int. J. Cancer 53 751 758 GICA 19 9 Herlyn et al. 1982 J. Clin. Immunol. 2 135 CTA 1 and LEA Burkitt s lymphoma antigen 38.13 CD19 Ghetie et al. 1994 Blood 83 1329 1336 human B lymphoma antigen CD20 Reff et al. 1994 Blood 83 435 445 CD33 Sgouros et al. 1993 J. Nucl. Med. 34 422 430 melanoma specific antigens such as ganglioside GD2 Saleh et al. 1993 J. Immunol. 151 3390 3398 ganglioside GD3 Shitara et al. 1993 Cancer Immunol. Immunother. 36 373 380 ganglioside GM2 Livingston et al. 1994 J. Clin. Oncol. 12 1036 1044 and ganglioside GM3 Hoon et al. 1993 Cancer Res. 53 5244 5250 tumor specific transplantation type of cell surface antigen TSTA such as virally induced tumor antigens including T antigen DNA tumor viruses and envelope antigens of RNA tumor viruses oncofetal antigen alpha fetoprotein such as CEA of colon or bladder tumor oncofetal antigen Hellstrom et al. 1985 Cancer. Res. 45 2210 2188 differentiation antigen such as human lung carcinoma antigen L6 or L20 Hellstrom et al. 1986 Cancer Res. 46 3917 3923 antigens of fibrosarcoma human leukemia T cell antigen Gp37 Bhattacharya Chatterjee et al. 1988 J. Immunol. 141 1398 1403 neoglycoprotein sphingolipids breast cancer antigen such as EGFR Epidermal growth factor receptor HER2 antigen p185 polymorphic epithelial mucin PEM Hilkens et al. 1992 Trends in Bio. Chem. Sci. 17 359 malignant human lymphocyte antigen APO 1 Bernhard et al. 1989 Science 245 301 304 differentiation antigen Feizi 1985 Nature 314 53 57 such as I antigen found in fetal erythrocytes primary endoderm I antigen found in adult erythrocytes and preimplantation embryos I Ma found in gastric adenocarcinomas M18 M39 found in breast epithelium SSEA 1 found in myeloid cells VEP8 VEP9 Myl VIM D5 Dfound in colorectal cancer TRA 1 85 blood group H C14 found in colonic adenocarcinoma F3 found in lung adenocarcinoma AH6 found in gastric cancer Y hapten Lefound in embryonal carcinoma cells TL5 blood group A EGF receptor found in A431 cells Eseries blood group B found in pancreatic cancer FC10.2 found in embryonal carcinoma cells gastric adenocarcinoma antigen CO 514 blood group Le found in Adenocarcinoma NS 10 found in adenocarcinomas CO 43 blood group Le G49 found in EGF receptor of A431 cells MH2 blood group ALe Le found in colonic adenocarcinoma 19.9 found in colon cancer gastric cancer mucins TAfound in myeloid cells Rfound in melanoma 4.2 GD3 D1.1 OFA 1 G OFA 2 GD2 and M1 22 25 8 found in embryonal carcinoma cells and SSEA 3 and SSEA 4.

In some embodiments the antibody in an antibody against one of the following antigens exemplary cancers are shown in parentheses CA125 ovarian CA15 3 carcinomas CA19 9 carcinomas L6 carcinomas Lewis Y carcinomas Lewis X carcinomas alpha fetoprotein carcinomas CA 242 colorectal placental alkaline phosphatase carcinomas prostate specific antigen prostate prostate specific membrane antigen prostatic acid phosphatase prostate epidermal growth factor carcinomas MAGE 1 carcinomas MAGE 2 carcinomas MAGE 3 carcinomas MAGE 4 carcinomas anti transferrin receptor carcinomas p97 melanoma MUC1 KLH breast cancer CEA colorectal gp100 melanoma MART1 melanoma IL 2 receptor T cell leukemia and lymphomas CD20 non Hodgkin s lymphoma CD52 leukemia CD33 leukemia CD22 lymphoma human chorionic gonadotropin carcinoma CD38 multiple myeloma CD40 lymphoma mucin carcinomas P21 carcinomas MPG melanoma and Neu oncogene product carcinomas . Some specific useful antibodies include but are not limited to BR96 mAb Trail et al. 1993 Science 261 212 215 BR64 Trail et al. 1997 Cancer Research 57 100 105 mAbs against the CD40 antigen such as S2C6 mAb Francisco et al. 2000 Cancer Res. 60 3225 3231 or other anti CD40 antibodies such as those disclosed in U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2003 0211100 and 2002 0142358 mAbs against the CD70 antigen such as 1F6 mAb and 2F2 mAb see e.g. U.S. Patent Publication No. 2006 0083736 and and mAbs against the CD30 antigen such as AC10 Bowen et al. 1993 J. Immunol. 151 5896 5906 Wahl et al. 2002 Cancer Res. 62 13 3736 42 or MDX 0060 U.S. Patent Publication No. 2004 0006215 . Other internalizing antibodies that bind to tumor associated antigens can be used and have been reviewed Franke et al. 2000 Cancer Biother. Radiopharm. 15 459 76 Murray 2000 Semin. Oncol. 27 64 70 Breitling F. and Dubel S. Recombinant Antibodies John Wiley and Sons New York 1998 .

In certain embodiments useful antibodies can bind to a receptor or a receptor complex expressed on a target cell. The receptor or receptor complex can comprise an immunoglobulin gene superfamily member a TNF receptor superfamily member an integrin a cytokine receptor a chemokine receptor a major histocompatibility protein a lectin or a complement control protein. Non limiting examples of suitable immunoglobulin superfamily members are CD2 CD3 CD4 CD8 CD19 CD22 CD28 CD79 CD90 CD152 CTLA 4 PD 1 and ICOS. Non limiting examples of suitable TNF receptor superfamily members are CD27 CD40 CD95 Fas CD134 OX40 CD137 4 1BB TNFR1 TNFR2 RANK TACI BCMA osteoprotegerin Apo2 TRAIL R1 TRAIL R2 TRAIL R3 TRAIL R4 and APO 3. Non limiting examples of suitable integrins are CD11a CD11b CD11c CD18 CD29 CD41 CD49a CD49b CD49c CD49d CD49e CD49f CD103 and CD104. Non limiting examples of suitable lectins are C type S type and I type lectin.

In some embodiments the Drug Linker Ligand conjugate includes a Linker unit. A Linker unit LU is a bifunctional compound which can be used to link a Drug unit and a Ligand unit to form a Drug Linker Ligand Conjugate or which is useful in the formation of immunoconjugates directed against target antigens. Such immunoconjugates allow the selective delivery of a cytotoxic or cytostatic agent to cancer cells tumor cells and cells of a cell proliferative disorder. In some embodiments a Drug Linker conjugate is provided.

In one embodiment the Linker unit of the Drug Linker Compound and Drug Linker Ligand Conjugate has the formula A W Y 

In the Drug Linker Ligand Conjugate the Linker links the Drug moiety and the Ligand unit. In some embodiments a w y 0. In other embodiments a w y 0 to 15 or 1 to 15. In some embodiments a w y 1 2 or 3.

The Stretcher unit A when present is capable of linking a Ligand unit to an amino acid unit W the Ligand unit to a Spacer unit or a Ligand unit to a Drug unit. In this regard a Ligand unit L has a functional group that can form a bond with a functional group of a Stretcher. Useful functional groups that can be present on a Ligand unit either naturally or via chemical manipulation include but are not limited to sulfhydryl SH amino hydroxyl carboxy the anomeric hydroxyl group of a carbohydrate and carboxyl. In one aspect the Ligand unit s functional groups are sulfhydryl and or amino. Sulfhydryl groups can be generated by reduction of an intramolecular disulfide bond of a Ligand unit. Alternatively sulfhydryl groups can be generated by reaction of an amino group of a lysine moiety of a Ligand using 2 iminothiolane Traut s reagent or another sulfhydryl generating reagent.

In some embodiments the Stretcher unit forms a bond with a sulfur atom of the Ligand unit. The sulfur atom can be derived from a sulfhydryl group of a Ligand. Representative Stretcher units of this embodiment are depicted within the square brackets of Formulas Ma and Mb wherein L W Y D w and y are as defined above and Ris selected from C Calkylene C Ccarbocyclo O C Calkyl arylene C Calkylene arylene arylene C Calkylene C Calkylene C Ccarbocyclo C Ccarbocyclo C Calkylene C Cheterocyclo C Calkylene C Cheterocyclo C Cheterocyclo C Calkylene CHCHO and CHCHO CH r is an integer ranging from 1 to 10 t is an integer of 0 to 1 and each Ris H or are combined to form O. It is to be understood from all the exemplary embodiments of Formula I Iia and IIIb such as III VI that even where not denoted expressly from 1 to 20 drug moieties are linked to a Ligand p 1 to 20 .

In related embodiments the Stretcher unit is derived from a haloacetamide unit such as a bromacetamide unit or an iodoacetamide.

In another embodiment the Stretcher unit is linked to the Ligand unit via a disulfide bond between a sulfur atom of the Ligand unit and a sulfur atom of the Stretcher unit. A representative Stretcher unit of this embodiment is depicted within the square brackets of Formula IV wherein R L W Y D w and y are as defined above.

In yet another embodiment the reactive group of the Stretcher contains a reactive site that can form a bond with a primary or secondary amino group of a Ligand. Example of these reactive sites include but are not limited to activated esters such as succinimide esters 4 nitrophenyl esters pentafluorophenyl esters tetrafluorophenyl esters anhydrides acid chlorides sulfonyl chlorides isocyanates and isothiocyanates. Representative Stretcher units of this embodiment are depicted within the square brackets of Formulas Va and Vb wherein R L W Y D w and y are as defined above 

In yet another aspect the reactive group of the Stretcher unit contains a reactive site that is reactive to a modified carbohydrate s CHO group that can be present on a Ligand unit. For example a carbohydrate can be mildly oxidized using a reagent such as sodium periodate and the resulting CHO unit of the oxidized carbohydrate can be condensed with a Stretcher unit that contains a functionality such as a hydrazide an oxime a primary or secondary amine a hydrazine a thiosemicarbazone a hydrazine carboxylate or an arylhydrazide such as those described by Kaneko et al. 1991 Bioconjugate Chem. 2 133 41 . Representative Stretcher units of this embodiment are depicted within the square brackets of Formulas VIa VIb and VIc wherein R L W Y D w and y are as defined above.

The Amino Acid unit W when present links the Stretcher unit to the Spacer unit if the Spacer unit is present links the Stretcher unit to the Drug moiety if the Spacer unit is absent and links the Ligand unit to the Drug unit if the Stretcher unit and Spacer unit are absent.

W is a dipeptide tripeptide tetrapeptide pentapeptide hexapeptide heptapeptide octapeptide nonapeptide decapeptide undecapeptide or dodecapeptide unit. Each W unit independently has the formula denoted below in the square brackets and w is an integer ranging from 0 to 12 

In some embodiments the Amino Acid unit can be enzymatically cleaved by one or more enzymes including a cancer or tumor associated protease to liberate the Drug unit D which in one embodiment is protonated in vivo upon release to provide a Drug D .

In certain embodiments the Amino Acid unit can comprise natural amino acids. In other embodiments the Amino Acid unit can comprise non natural amino acids. Illustrative Wunits are represented by formulas VII IX 

Exemplary Amino Acid units include but are not limited to units of Formula VII where Ris benzyl and Ris CH NH Ris isopropyl and Ris CH NH or Ris isopropyl and Ris CH NHCONH. Another exemplary Amino Acid unit is a unit of Formula VIII wherein Ris benzyl Ris benzyl and Ris CH NH.

Useful W units can be designed and optimized in their selectivity for enzymatic cleavage by a particular enzymes for example a tumor associated protease. In one embodiment a W unit is that whose cleavage is catalyzed by cathepsin B C and D or a plasmin protease.

In another embodiment when R R R Ror Ris other than hydrogen the carbon atom to which R R R Ror Ris attached is chiral.

In one aspect of the Amino Acid unit the Amino Acid unit is valine citrulline i.e. val cit or vc . In another aspect the Amino Acid unit is phenylalanine lysine i.e. fk . In yet another aspect of the Amino Acid unit the Amino Acid unit is N methylvaline citrulline. In yet another aspect the Amino Acid unit is 5 aminovaleric acid homo phenylalanine lysine tetraisoquinolinecarboxylate lysine cyclohexylalanine lysine isonipecotic acid lysine beta alanine lysine glycine serine valine glutamine SEQ ID NO 1 or isonipecotic acid.

The Spacer unit Y when present links an Amino Acid unit to the Drug unit when an Amino Acid unit is present. Alternately the Spacer unit links the Stretcher unit to the Drug unit when the Amino Acid unit is absent. The Spacer unit also links the Drug unit to the Ligand unit when both the Amino Acid unit and Stretcher unit are absent.

Spacer units are of two general types non self immolative or self immolative. A non self immolative Spacer unit is one in which part or all of the Spacer unit remains bound to the Drug moiety after cleavage particularly enzymatic of an Amino Acid unit from the Drug Linker Ligand Conjugate or the Drug Linker Compound. Examples of a non self immolative Spacer unit include but are not limited to a glycine glycine Spacer unit and a glycine Spacer unit both depicted in Scheme 1 infra . When a conjugate containing a glycine glycine Spacer unit or a glycine Spacer unit undergoes enzymatic cleavage via an enzyme e.g. a tumor cell associated protease a cancer cell associated protease or a lymphocyte associated protease a glycine glycine Drug moiety or a glycine Drug moiety is cleaved from L A W . In one embodiment an independent hydrolysis reaction takes place within the target cell cleaving the glycine Drug moiety bond and liberating the Drug.

In another embodiment Y is a p aminobenzyl alcohol PAB unit see Schemes 2 and 3 whose phenylene portion is substituted with Qwherein Q is C Calkyl O C Calkyl halogen nitro or cyano and m is an integer ranging from 0 to 4.

In some embodiments a non self immolative the Spacer unit Y is Gly . In some embodiments a non self immolative Spacer unit Y is Gly Gly .

In one embodiment a Drug Linker conjugate or a Drug Linker Ligand Conjugate or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or solvate thereof is provided in which the Spacer unit is absent y 0 .

Alternatively a conjugate containing a self immolative Spacer unit can release the Drug unit D. As used herein the term self immolative Spacer refers to a bifunctional chemical moiety that is capable of covalently linking together two spaced chemical moieties into a stable tripartite molecule. It will spontaneously separate from the second chemical moiety if its bond to the first moiety is cleaved.

In some embodiments Y is a PAB group that is linked to W via the amino nitrogen atom of the PAB group and connected directly to D via a carbonate carbamate or ether group. Without being bound by any particular theory or mechanism Scheme 2 depicts a possible mechanism of Drug release of a PAB group which is attached directly to the Drug unit D via a carbamate or carbonate group as described by Toki et al. 2002 J. Org. Chem. 67 1866 1872 .

In Scheme 2 Q is C Calkyl O C Calkyl halogen nitro or cyano m is an integer ranging from 0 to 4 and p ranges from 1 to about 20.

Without being bound by any particular theory or mechanism Scheme 3 depicts a possible mechanism of Drug release of a PAB group which is attached directly to D via an ether or amine linkage wherein D includes the oxygen or nitrogen group is part of the Drug unit.

In Scheme 3 Q is C Calkyl O C Calkyl halogen nitro or cyano m is an integer ranging from 0 to 4 and p ranges from 1 to about 20.

Other examples of self immolative spacers include but are not limited to aromatic compounds that are electronically similar to the PAB group such as 2 aminoimidazol 5 methanol derivatives Hay et al. 1999 Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 9 2237 and ortho or para aminobenzylacetals. Spacers can be used that undergo cyclization upon amide bond hydrolysis such as substituted and unsubstituted 4 aminobutyric acid amides Rodrigues et al. 1995 Chemistry Biology 2 223 appropriately substituted bicyclo 2.2.1 and acid amides Amsberry et al. 1990 J. Org. Chem. 55 5867 . Elimination of amine containing drugs that are substituted at the position of glycine Kingsbury et al. 1984 J. Med. Chem. 27 1447 are also examples of self immolative spacers.

In one embodiment the Spacer unit is a branched bis hydroxymethyl styrene BHMS unit as depicted in Scheme 4 which can be used to incorporate and release multiple drugs.

In Scheme 4 Q is C Calkyl O C Calkyl halogen nitro or cyano m is an integer ranging from 0 to 4 n is 0 or 1 and p ranges from 1 to about 20.

In some embodiments the D moieties are the same. In yet another embodiment the D moieties are different.

Other embodiments of the Formula I IIa and IIIb include antibody drug conjugate compounds having the formula 

The Drug unit D is an auristatin that is a poor substrate for a P gp transporter. P gp can cause resistance to anthracyclines such as doxorubicin daunorubicin and epirubicin mitxantrone vinca alkaloids vinblastine vincristine etoposide the taxanes paclitaxel docetaxel and actinomycin D by increasing efflux of such drugs from the intracellular compartment.

As used herein a poor substrate for a P gp transporter is a drug or Drug unit that has reduced affinity for and or transport by P gp compared to drugs known to be transported by P gp e.g. doxorubicin or vincristine . Exemplary poor substrates for a P gp transporter include but are not limited to cisplatin and certain auristatins as described herein. A poor substrate for a P gp transporter can have P gp efflux rates that are at least 10 10 10 10or 10relative to that of doxorubicin or vincristine. Alternatively a poor substrate for a P gp transporter can have an ICthat is less than 2 5 10 15 or 20 fold higher in untreated compared to verapamil treated cells and or drug resistant progeny compared to parental cells.

As used herein a good substrate for a P gp transporter is a drug or Drug unit that has elevated affinity for and or transport by P gp compared to drugs known not to be transported by P gp e.g. camptothecin or cisplatin . Exemplary good substrates for a P gp transporter include but are not limited to anthracyclines such as doxorubicin daunorubicin and epirubicin mitxantrone vinca alkaloids vinblastine vincristine etoposide the taxanes paclitaxel docetaxel and actinomycin D. A good substrate for a P gp transporter can have P gp efflux rates that are at least 10 10 10 10or 10relative to that of campothecin or cisplatin. Alternatively a good substrate for a P gp transporter can have an ICthat is more than 20 50 100 200 or 500 fold higher in untreated compared to verapamil treated cells and or drug resistant progeny compared to parental cells. In one embodiment the drug is not a good substrate for P gp.

As used herein an auristatin refers to a molecule that exhibits a cytotoxic or cytostatic activity on cancer cells and exhibits reduced affinity for and or transport by P gp. In some embodiments the auristatin derivative is a zwitterionic compound. In some embodiments the auristatin has a P gp efflux rate that is at least 10 10 10 10or 10relative to that of doxorubicin. In some embodiments the auristatin has comparable cytotoxic or cytotstatic activity in cancer cell lines expressing a functional P gp in the absence or presence of an effective dose of the P gp inhibitor verapamil. In this context comparable means that the ICis less than 2 5 10 15 or 20 fold higher in untreated compared to verapamil treated cells. In some embodiments the auristatin has comparable cytotoxic or cytotstatic activity in parental cells compared to their drug resistant progeny see Table 2 infra . In this context comparable means that the ICis less than 2 5 10 15 or 20 fold higher in drug resistant progeny compared to parental cells.

Ris selected from H C Calkyl C Ccarbocycle aryl C Calkyl aryl C Calkyl C Ccarbocycle C Cheterocycle and C Calkyl C Cheterocycle 

Ris selected from H C Calkyl C Ccarbocycle aryl C Calkyl aryl C Calkyl C Ccarbocycle C Cheterocycle and C Calkyl C Cheterocycle 

or Rand Rjointly form a carbocyclic ring and have the formula CRR wherein Rand Rare independently selected from H C Calkyl and C Ccarbocycle and n1 is selected from 2 3 4 5 and 6 

Ris selected from H C Calkyl C Ccarbocycle aryl C Calkyl aryl C Calkyl C Ccarbocycle C Cheterocycle and C Calkyl C Cheterocycle 

In one embodiment R Rand Rare independently isopropyl or sec butyl and Ris H. In an exemplary embodiment Rand Rare each isopropyl Ris H and Ris sec butyl.

In an exemplary embodiment Rand Rare each isopropyl Rand Rare each methyl Ris H Ris sec butyl each occurrence of Ris OCH and Ris H.

The auristatin can be prepared by forming a peptide bond between two or more amino acids and or peptide fragments. Such peptide bonds can be prepared for example according to the liquid phase synthesis method see E. Schr der and K. L bke The Peptides volume 1 pp 76 136 1965 Academic Press that is well known in the field of peptide chemistry. General methods for preparing auristatins are described in the following U.S. Pat. No. 5 635 483 U.S. Pat. No. 5 780 588 Pettit et al. 1989 J. Am. Chem. Soc. 111 5463 5465 Pettit et al. 1998 Anti Cancer Drug Design 13 243 277 and Pettit et al. 1996 J. Chem. Soc. Perkin Trans. 1 5 859 863. More specifically MMAF and its derivatives can be synthesized as described in International Patent Publication WO2005081711 the disclosure of which is incorporated in its entirety by reference herein .

Methods of determining whether an agent exerts a cytostatic or cytotoxic effect on a cell are known. Illustrative examples of such methods for Drug Linker Ligand Conjugate s such as an antibody drug conjugate ADC are described infra. Generally the cytotoxic or cytostatic activity of an ADC can be measured by exposing mammalian cells expressing a target protein of the antibody of the ADC in a cell culture medium culturing the cells for a period from about 6 hours to about 5 days and measuring cell viability. Cell based in vitro assays can be used to measure viability proliferation cytotoxicity and induction of apoptosis caspase activation of the ADC of the invention.

For determining whether an ADC exerts a cytostatic effect a thymidine incorporation assay may be used. For example cancer cells expressing a target antigen at a density of 5 000 cells well of a 96 well plated can be cultured for a 72 hour period and exposed to 0.5 Ci of H thymidine during the final 8 hours of the 72 hour period. The incorporation of H thymidine into cells of the culture is measured in the presence and absence of the ADC.

For determining cytotoxicity necrosis or apoptosis programmed cell death can be measured. Necrosis is typically accompanied by increased permeability of the plasma membrane swelling of the cell and rupture of the plasma membrane. Apoptosis is typically characterized by membrane blebbing condensation of cytoplasm and the activation of endogenous endonucleases. Determination of any of these effects on cancer cells indicates that an ADC is useful in the treatment of cancers.

Cell viability can be measured by determining in a cell the uptake of a dye such as neutral red trypan blue or ALAMAR blue see e.g. Page et al. 1993 Intl. J. Oncology 3 473 476 . In such an assay the cells are incubated in media containing the dye the cells are washed and the remaining dye reflecting cellular uptake of the dye is measured spectrophotometrically. The protein binding dye sulforhodamine B SRB can also be used to measure cytoxicity Skehan et al. 1990 J. Natl. Cancer Inst. 82 1107 12 .

Alternatively a tetrazolium salt such as MTT is used in a quantitative colorimetric assay for mammalian cell survival and proliferation by detecting living but not dead cells see e.g. Mosmann 1983 J. Immunol. Methods 65 55 63 .

Apoptosis can be quantitated by measuring for example DNA fragmentation. Commercial photometric methods for the quantitative in vitro determination of DNA fragmentation are available. Examples of such assays including TUNEL which detects incorporation of labeled nucleotides in fragmented DNA and ELISA based assays are described in Biochemica 1999 no. 2 pp. 34 37 Roche Molecular Biochemicals .

Apoptosis can also be determined by measuring morphological changes in a cell. For example as with necrosis loss of plasma membrane integrity can be determined by measuring uptake of certain dyes e.g. a fluorescent dye such as for example acridine orange or ethidium bromide . A method for measuring apoptotic cell number has been described by Duke and Cohen Current Protocols in Immunology Coligan et al. eds. 1992 pp. 3.17.1 3.17.16 . Cells also can be labeled with a DNA dye e.g. acridine orange ethidium bromide or propidium iodide and the cells observed for chromatin condensation and margination along the inner nuclear membrane. Other morphological changes that can be measured to determine apoptosis include e.g. cytoplasmic condensation increased membrane blebbing and cellular shrinkage.

The presence of apoptotic cells can be measured in both the attached and floating compartments of the cultures. For example both compartments can be collected by removing the supernatant trypsinizing the attached cells combining the preparations following a centrifugation wash step e.g. 10 minutes at 2000 rpm and detecting apoptosis e.g. by measuring DNA fragmentation . See e.g. Piazza et al. 1995 Cancer Research 55 3110 16. 

The effects of ADCs can be tested or validated in animal models. A number of established animal models of cancers are known to the skilled artisan any of which can be used to assay the efficacy of a Drug Linker Ligand conjugate such as an ADC. Non limiting examples of such models are described infra. Moreover small animal models to examine the in vivo efficacies of ADCs can be created by implanting human tumor cell lines into appropriate immunodeficient rodent strains e.g. athymic nude mice or SCID mice.

In another aspect compositions are provided that include an effective amount of a Drug Linker Ligand conjugate s or a Drug Linker conjugate s with or without a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or vehicle. For convenience the Drug Linker Ligand conjugate or a Drug Linker conjugate can be referred to as a Conjugate. The compositions are suitable for veterinary or human administration.

The compositions can be in any form that allows for the composition to be administered to a patient. For example the composition can be in the form of a liquid or solid. Typical routes of administration include without limitation oral topical parenteral sublingual rectal vaginal ocular and intra tumor. Parenteral administration includes subcutaneous injections intravenous intramuscular intrasternal injection or infusion techniques. In one aspect the compositions are administered parenterally. In yet another aspect the compositions are administered intravenously.

Pharmaceutical compositions can be formulated so as to allow the Conjugate to be bioavailable upon administration of the composition to a patient. Compositions can take the form of one or more dosage units where for example a tablet can be a single dosage unit and a container of a Conjugate in aerosol form can hold a plurality of dosage units.

Materials used in preparing the pharmaceutical compositions can be non toxic in the amounts used. It will be evident to those of ordinary skill in the art that the optimal dosage of the active ingredient s in the pharmaceutical composition will depend on a variety of factors. Relevant factors include without limitation the type of animal e.g. human the particular form of the Conjugate the manner of administration and the composition employed.

The pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or vehicle can be particulate so that the compositions are for example in tablet or powder form. The carrier s can be liquid with the compositions being for example an oral syrup or injectable liquid.

When intended for oral administration the composition is preferably in solid or liquid form where semi solid semi liquid suspension and gel forms are included within the forms considered herein as either solid or liquid.

As a solid composition for oral administration the composition can be formulated into a powder granule compressed tablet pill capsule chewing gum wafer or the like form. Such a solid composition typically contains one or more inert diluents. In addition one or more of the following can be present binders such as carboxymethylcellulose ethyl cellulose microcrystalline cellulose or gelatin excipients such as starch lactose or dextrins disintegrating agents such as alginic acid sodium alginate Primogel corn starch and the like lubricants such as magnesium stearate or Sterotex glidants such as colloidal silicon dioxide sweetening agents such as sucrose or saccharin a flavoring agent such as peppermint methyl salicylate or orange flavoring and a coloring agent.

When the composition is in the form of a capsule e.g. a gelatin capsule it can contain in addition to materials of the above type a liquid carrier such as polyethylene glycol cyclodextrin or a fatty oil.

The composition can be in the form of a liquid e.g. an elixir syrup solution emulsion or suspension. In a composition for administration by injection one or more of a surfactant preservative wetting agent dispersing agent suspending agent buffer stabilizer and isotonic agent can also be included. The liquid can be useful for oral administration or for delivery by injection. When intended for oral administration a composition can comprise one or more of a sweetening agent preservatives dye colorant and flavor enhancer.

The liquid compositions whether they are solutions suspensions or other like form can also include one or more of the following sterile diluents such as water for injection saline solution such as physiological saline Ringer s solution isotonic sodium chloride fixed oils such as synthetic mono or digylcerides which can serve as the solvent or suspending medium polyethylene glycols glycerin cyclodextrin propylene glycol or other solvents antibacterial agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl paraben antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite chelating agents such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid buffers such as acetates amino acids citrates or phosphates and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. A parenteral composition can be enclosed in ampoule a disposable syringe or a multiple dose vial made of glass plastic or other material. Physiological saline is an exemplary adjuvant. An injectable composition is preferably sterile.

The amount of the Conjugate that is effective in the treatment of a particular disorder or condition will depend on the nature of the disorder or condition and can be determined by standard clinical techniques. In addition in vitro or in vivo assays can optionally be employed to help identify optimal dosage ranges. The precise dose to be employed in the compositions will also depend on the route of administration and the seriousness of the disease or disorder and should be decided according to the judgment of the practitioner and each patient s circumstances.

The compositions comprise an effective amount of a Conjugate such that a suitable dosage will be obtained. Typically this amount is at least about 0.01 of a Conjugate by weight of the composition. In some embodiments the compositions are prepared so that a parenteral dosage unit contains from about 0.01 to about 2 by weight of the Conjugate. When intended for oral administration this amount can be varied to range from about 0.1 to about 80 by weight of the composition. In one aspect oral compositions can comprise from about 4 to about 50 of the Conjugate by weight of the composition.

Generally the dosage of a Conjugate administered to a patient is typically about 0.01 mg kg to about 2000 mg kg of the animal s body weight. In one embodiment the dosage administered to a patient is between about 0.01 mg kg to about 10 mg kg of the animal s body weight in another embodiment the dosage administered to a patient is between about 0.1 mg kg and about 250 mg kg of the animal s body weight. In yet another embodiment the dosage administered to a patient is between about 0.1 mg kg and about 20 mg kg of the animal s body weight. In other embodiments the dosage administered is between about 0.1 mg kg to about 20 mg kg about 0.5 mg kg to about 20 mg kg about 1 mg kg to about 20 mg kg about 0.1 mg kg to about 15 mg kg about 0.5 mg kg to about 15 mg kg about 1 mg kg to about 15 mg kg about 0.1 mg kg to about 10 mg kg about 0.5 mg kg to about 10 mg kg or about 1 mg kg to about 10 mg kg of the animal s body weight.

For intravenous administration the composition can comprise from about 0.01 to about 100 mg of a Conjugate per kg of the animal s body weight. In one aspect the composition can include from about 1 to about 100 mg of the Conjugate per kg of the animal s body weight. In some embodiments the amount administered will be in the range from about 0.1 to about 25 mg kg of body weight of the Conjugate. In yet another embodiment the dosage administered to a patient is between about 0.1 mg kg and about 20 mg kg of the animal s body weight. In other embodiments the dosage administered is between about 0.1 mg kg to about 20 mg kg about 0.5 mg kg to about 20 mg kg about 1 mg kg to about 20 mg kg about 0.1 mg kg to about 15 mg kg about 0.5 mg kg to about 15 mg kg about 1 mg kg to about 15 mg kg about 0.1 mg kg to about 10 mg kg about 0.5 mg kg to about 10 mg kg or about 1 mg kg to about 10 mg kg of the animal s body weight.

The Conjugates or compositions can be administered by any convenient route for example by infusion or bolus injection by absorption through epithelial or mucocutaneous linings e.g. oral mucosa rectal and intestinal mucosa etc. . Administration can be systemic or local. Various delivery systems are known e.g. encapsulation in liposomes microparticles microcapsules capsules etc. and can be used to administer a Conjugate or composition. In certain embodiments more than one Conjugate or composition is administered to a patient.

In specific embodiments it can be desirable to administer one or more Conjugates or compositions locally to the area in need of treatment. This can be achieved for example and not by way of limitation by local infusion during surgery topical application e.g. in conjunction with a wound dressing after surgery by injection by means of a catheter by means of a suppository or by means of an implant the implant being of a porous non porous or gelatinous material including membranes such as sialastic membranes or fibers. In one embodiment administration can be by direct injection at the site or former site of a cancer tumor or neoplastic or pre neoplastic tissue. In another embodiment administration can be by direct injection at the site or former site of manifestation of disease.

In certain embodiments it can be desirable to introduce one or more Conjugates or compositions into the central nervous system by any suitable route including intraventricular and intrathecal injection. Intraventricular injection can be facilitated by an intraventricular catheter for example attached to a reservoir such as an Ommaya reservoir.

In yet another embodiment the Conjugates or compositions can be delivered in a controlled release system such as but not limited to a pump or various polymeric materials. In yet another embodiment a controlled release system can be placed in proximity of the target of the Conjugates or compositions e.g. the brain thus requiring only a fraction of the systemic dose see e.g. Goodson in Medical Applications of Controlled Release supra vol. 2 pp. 115 138 1984 . Other controlled release systems discussed in the review by Langer Science 249 1527 1533 1990 can be used.

The term carrier refers to a diluent adjuvant or excipient with which a Conjugate is administered. Such pharmaceutical carriers can be liquids such as water including aqueous solutions and oils including those of petroleum animal vegetable or synthetic origin such as peanut oil soybean oil mineral oil sesame oil and the like. The carriers can be saline gum acacia gelatin starch paste talc keratin colloidal silica urea and the like. In addition auxiliary stabilizing thickening lubricating and coloring agents can be used. In one embodiment when administered to a patient the Conjugate or compositions and pharmaceutically acceptable carriers are sterile. Water is an exemplary carrier when the Conjugates are administered intravenously. Saline solutions and aqueous dextrose and glycerol solutions can also be employed as liquid carriers particularly for injectable solutions. Suitable pharmaceutical carriers also include excipients such as starch glucose lactose sucrose gelatin malt rice flour chalk silica gel sodium stearate glycerol monostearate talc sodium chloride dried skim milk glycerol propylene glycol water ethanol and the like. The compositions if desired can also contain minor amounts of wetting or emulsifying agents or pH buffering agents.

In an embodiment the Conjugates are formulated in accordance with routine procedures as a pharmaceutical composition adapted for intravenous administration to animals particularly human beings. Typically the carriers or vehicles for intravenous administration are sterile isotonic aqueous buffer solutions. Where necessary the compositions can also include a solubilizing agent. Compositions for intravenous administration can optionally comprise a local anesthetic such as lignocaine to ease pain at the site of the injection. Generally the ingredients are supplied either separately or mixed together in unit dosage form for example as a dry lyophilized powder or water free concentrate in a hermetically sealed container such as an ampoule or sachette indicating the quantity of active agent. Where a Conjugate is to be administered by infusion it can be dispensed for example with an infusion bottle containing sterile pharmaceutical grade water or saline. Where the Conjugate is administered by injection an ampoule of sterile water for injection or saline can be provided so that the ingredients can be mixed prior to administration.

Whether in solid or liquid form the compositions can include a pharmacological agent used in the treatment of cancer an autoimmune disease or an infectious disease.

The Drug Linker Ligand conjugates are useful for treating cancer in particular drug resistant or refractory cancers in a patient. In some embodiments the patient has a refractory or drug resistant cancer where the patient has failed at least one prior treatment with a chemotherapeutic agent.

In some embodiments drug resistance can be determined by obtaining a sample from a patient and determining P gp protein and mRNA levels. See e.g. Zhan et al. 1997 Blood. 89 10 3795 800. In other embodiments P gp levels can be determined using a fluorescent dye or radioactive label s . See e.g. Homolya et al. 1993 J. Biol. Chem. 268 21493 21496 Hollo et al. 1994 Biochimica et Biophysica Acta 1191 384 388 Liminga et al. 1994 Exp. Cell Res. 212 291 296 Kessel et al. 1991 Cancer Research 51 4665 4670 Neyfakh 1988 Exp. Cell Res. 174 168 176 Taki et al. 1998 J. Nucl. Med. 39 7 1179 84 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 872 014 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety herein. Other methods of determining drug resistance are disclosed in U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2005 0238707 2005 0227249 and 2004 0176403 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

The Drug Linker Ligand conjugates and Drug Linker conjugates are accordingly useful in a variety of settings for the treatment of cancers. In some embodiments the Ligand unit binds to the tumor cell cancer cell or a cell of a cell proliferative disorder wherein the Ligand unit binds to a target protein expressed on the cell. In some embodiments the Ligand unit binds to a tumor cell antigen a cancer cell antigen or an antigen of a cell proliferative disorder which is on the surface of the cell wherein the Ligand unit binds to a target protein expressed on the cell. In some embodiments the Ligand unit binds to a tumor cell antigen a cancer cell antigen or an antigen of a cell of cell proliferative disorder which is an extracellular matrix protein associated with the cell wherein the Ligand unit binds to a target protein expressed on the cell. In other embodiments the Ligand unit binds to an antigen of bystander cell wherein the bystander cell is associated with the cancer tumor or cell proliferative disorder.

The specificity of the Ligand unit for a particular tumor cell or cancer cell can be useful for determining those tumors or cancers that are most effectively treated. For example conjugates having a BR96 Ligand unit can be useful for treating antigen positive carcinomas including those of the lung breast colon ovaries and pancreas. Conjugates having an anti CD30 or an anti CD20 Ligand unit can be useful for treating hematologic malignancies.

Other particular types of cancers that can be treated include but are not limited to refractory or drug resistant forms of carcinomas lymphomas blastomas sarcomas leukemias lymphoid malignancies and other cancers cell proliferative disorders and tumors. In some embodiments the cancer is one of the cancers listed in the following Table 1 

The Conjugates can provide conjugate specific tumor or cancer targeting thus reducing general toxicity of these compounds. In some embodiments the Linker units can stabilize the Conjugates in blood yet are cleavable by cancer specific tumor specific or cell proliferative disorder specific proteases within the cell thereby liberating the Drug intracellularly.

In some embodiments methods for treating refractory cancers are provided that include administering to a patient in need thereof an effective amount of a Conjugate e.g. a Drug Linker Ligand unit or a Drug Linker unit and a chemotherapeutic agent. In one embodiment the chemotherapeutic agent is that to which treatment of the cancer has not been found to be refractory. In another embodiment the chemotherapeutic agent is that to which the treatment of cancer has been found to be refractory. The Conjugates can be administered to a patient who has also undergone surgery as treatment for the cancer. In one embodiment the additional method of treatment is radiation therapy.

In a specific embodiment the Conjugate is administered concurrently with the chemotherapeutic agent or with radiation therapy. In another specific embodiment the chemotherapeutic agent or radiation therapy is administered prior or subsequent to administration of a Conjugate in one aspect at least an hour five hours 12 hours a day a week a month in further aspects several months e.g. up to three months prior or subsequent to administration of a Conjugate.

A chemotherapeutic agent can be administered over a series of sessions. Any one or a combination of the chemotherapeutic agents listed below can be administered. With respect to radiation any radiation therapy protocol can be used depending upon the type of cancer to be treated. For example but not by way of limitation x ray radiation can be administered in particular high energy megavoltage radiation of greater that 1 MeV energy can be used for deep tumors and electron beam and orthovoltage x ray radiation can be used for skin cancers. Gamma ray emitting radioisotopes such as radioactive isotopes of radium cobalt and other elements can also be administered.

Additionally methods of treatment of cancer with a Conjugate are provided as an alternative to chemotherapy or radiation therapy where the chemotherapy or the radiation therapy has proven or can prove too toxic e.g. results in unacceptable or unbearable side effects for the patient being treated. The patient being treated can optionally be treated with another cancer treatment such as surgery radiation therapy or chemotherapy depending on which treatment is found to be acceptable or bearable.

The Conjugates also can be used in an in vitro or ex vivo fashion such as for the treatment of certain cancers including but not limited to leukemias and lymphomas such treatment involving autologous stem cell transplants. This can involve a multi step process in which the animal s autologous hematopoietic stem cells are harvested and purged of cancer cells the animal s remaining bone marrow cell population is then eradicated via the administration of a high dose of a Conjugate with or without accompanying high dose radiation therapy and the stem cell graft is infused back into the animal. Supportive care is then provided while bone marrow function is restored and the animal recovers.

Methods for treating drug resistant cancer include administering to a patient in need thereof an effective amount of a Conjugate and optionally another therapeutic agent that is an anti cancer agent. Suitable anticancer agents include but are not limited to methotrexate taxol L asparaginase mercaptopurine thioguanine hydroxyurea cytarabine cyclophosphamide ifosfamide nitrosoureas cisplatin carboplatin mitomycin C dacarbazine procarbizine topotecan nitrogen mustards cytoxan etoposide 5 fluorouracil floxuridine doxifluridine and ratitrexed BCNU irinotecan a camptothecin bleomycin doxorubicin idarubicin daunorubicin dactinomycin plicamycin mitoxantrone asparaginase vinblastine vincristine vinorelbine paclitaxel and docetaxel.

In one aspect the anti cancer agent includes but is not limited to one or more of the following drugs.

Examples of chemotherapeutic agents include alkylating agents such as thiotepa and CYTOXAN cyclosphosphamide alkyl sulfonates such as busulfan improsulfan piposulfan and treosulfan decarbazine aziridines such as benzodopa carboquone meturedopa and uredopa ethylenimines and methylamelamines including altretamine triethylenemelamine trietylenephosphoramide triethiylenethiophosphoramide and trimethylolomelamine TLK 286 TELCYTA acetogenins especially bullatacin and bullatacinone delta 9 tetrahydrocannabinol dronabinol MARINOL beta lapachone lapachol colchicines betulinic acid a camptothecin including the synthetic analogue topotecan HYCAMTIN CPT 11 irinotecan CAMPTOSAR acetylcamptothecin scopolectin and 9 aminocamptothecin bryostatin callystatin CC 1065 including its adozelesin carzelesin and bizelesin synthetic analogues podophyllotoxin podophyllinic acid teniposide cryptophycins particularly cryptophycin 1 and cryptophycin 8 a dolastatin duocarmycin including the synthetic analogues KW 2189 and CB1 TM1 eleutherobin pancratistatin a sarcodictyin spongistatin nitrogen mustards such as chlorambucil chlornaphazine cholophosphamide estramustine ifosfamide mechlorethamine mechlorethamine oxide hydrochloride melphalan novembichin phenesterine prednimustine trofosfamide or uracil mustard nitrosureas such as carmustine chlorozotocin fotemustine lomustine nimustine and ranimnustine bisphosphonates such as clodronate antibiotics such as the enediyne antibiotics e.g. calicheamicin especially calicheamicin gamma1I and calicheamicin omegaI1 see e.g. Agnew 1994 Chem. Intl. Ed. Engl. 33 183 186 and anthracyclines such as annamycin AD 32 alcarubicin daunorubicin dexrazoxane DX 52 1 epirubicin GPX 100 idarubicin KRN5500 menogaril dynemicin including dynemicin A an esperamicin neocarzinostatin chromophore and related chromoprotein enediyne antibiotic chromophores aclacinomysins actinomycin authramycin azaserine bleomycins e.g. bleomycin A2 bleomycin B2 and peplomycin cactinomycin carabicin carminomycin carzinophilin chromomycinis dactinomycin detorubicin 6 diazo 5 oxo L norleucine ADRIAMYCIN doxorubicin including morpholino doxorubicin cyanomorpholino doxorubicin 2 pyrrolino doxorubicin liposomal doxorubicin and deoxydoxorubicin esorubicin marcellomycin mitomycins such as mitomycin C mycophenolic acid tiazofurin ribavarin EICAR nogalamycin olivomycins peplomycin potfiromycin puromycin quelamycin rodorubicin streptonigrin streptozocin tubercidin ubenimex zinostatin and zorubicin folic acid analogues such as denopterin pteropterin and trimetrexate purine analogs such as fludarabine 6 mercaptopurine thiamiprine and thioguanine pyrimidine analogs such as ancitabine azacitidine 6 azauridine carmofur cytarabine dideoxyuridine doxifluridine enocitabine and floxuridine androgens such as calusterone dromostanolone propionate epitiostanol mepitiostane and testolactone anti adrenals such as aminoglutethimide mitotane and trilostane a folic acid replenisher such as folinic acid leucovorin aceglatone anti folate anti neoplastic agents such as ALIMTA LY231514 pemetrexed dihydrofolate reductase inhibitors such as methotrexate and trimetrexate anti metabolites such as 5 fluorouracil 5 FU and its prodrugs such as UFT S 1 and capecitabine and thymidylate synthase inhibitors and glycinamide ribonucleotide formyltransferase inhibitors such as raltitrexed TOMUDEXRM TDX inhibitors of dihydropyrimidine dehydrogenase such as eniluracil aldophosphamide glycoside aminolevulinic acid amsacrine bestrabucil bisantrene edatraxate defofamine demecolcine diaziquone elfornithine elliptinium acetate an epothilone etoglucid gallium nitrate hydroxyurea deferoxamine lentinan lonidainine a maytansinoids such as maytansine and ansamitocins mitoguazone mitoxantrone mopidanmol nitraerine pentostatin phenamet pirarubicin losoxantrone 2 ethylhydrazide procarbazine PSK polysaccharide complex JHS Natural Products Eugene Oreg. razoxane rhizoxin sizofiran spirogermanium tenuazonic acid triaziquone 2 2 2 trichlorotriethylamine trichothecenes especially T 2 toxin verracurin A roridin A and anguidine urethan vindesine ELDISINE FILDESIN dacarbazine mannomustine mitobronitol mitolactol pipobroman gacytosine cytosine arabinoside Ara C cyclophosphamide thiotepa taxoids and taxanes e.g. TAXOL paclitaxel Bristol Myers Squibb Oncology Princeton N.J. ABRAXANE Cremophor free albumin engineered nanoparticle formulation of paclitaxel American Pharmaceutical Partners Schaumberg Ill. and TAXOTERE doxetaxel Rh ne Poulenc Rorer Antony France chloranbucil gemcitabine GEMZAR 6 thioguanine mercaptopurine platinum platinum analogs or platinum based analogs such as cisplatin oxaliplatin and carboplatin vinblastine VELBAN epipodophyllins such as etoposide VP 16 teniposide tepotecan 9 aminocamptothecin camptothecin and crisnatol ifosfamide mitoxantrone vinca alkaloids such as vincristine ONCOVIN vindesine vinca alkaloid and vinorelbine NAVELBINE novantrone edatrexate daunomycin aminopterin xeloda ibandronate topoisomerase inhibitor RFS 2000 difluorometlhylornithine DMFO retinoids such as retinoic acid pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids or derivatives of any of the above as well as combinations of two or more of the above such as CHOP an abbreviation for a combined therapy of cyclophosphamide doxorubicin vincristine and prednisolone and FOLFOX an abbreviation for a treatment regimen with oxaliplatin ELOXATIN combined with 5 FU and leucovorin.

Also included are anti hormonal agents that act to regulate or inhibit hormone action on tumors such as anti estrogens and selective estrogen receptor modulators SERMs including for example tamoxifen including NOLVADEX tamoxifen raloxifene megestrol droloxifene 4 hydroxytamoxifen trioxifene keoxifene LY117018 onapristone and FARESTON toremifene aromatase inhibitors that inhibit the enzyme aromatase which regulates estrogen production in the adrenal glands such as for example 4 5 imidazoles aminoglutethimide MEGASE megestrol acetate AROMASIN exemestane formestanie fadrozole RIVISOR vorozole FEMARA letrozole and ARIMIDEX anastrozole and anti androgens such as flutamide nilutamide bicalutamide leuprolide leuprolide acetate and goserelin as well as troxacitabine a 1 3 dioxolane nucleoside cytosine analog antisense oligonucleotides particularly those that inhibit expression of genes in signaling pathways implicated in abherant cell proliferation such as for example PKC alpha Raf H Ras and epidermal growth factor receptor EGF R vaccines such as gene therapy vaccines for example ALLOVECTIN vaccine LEUVECTIN vaccine and VAXID vaccine PROLEUKIN rIL 2 LURTOTECAN topoisomerase 1 inhibitor ABARELIX rmRH vitamin DA analogs such as EB 1089 CD 1093 and KH 1060 and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids or derivatives of any of the above.

In additional embodiments the agent can be a photodynamic agent such as vertoporfin BPD MA phthalocyanine photosensitizer Pc4 demethoxy hypocrellin A 2BA 2 DMHA a cytokine such as Interferon Interferon or tumor necrosis factor Gemcitabine Velcade bortezomib Revlamid lenalidomide or Thalamid Lovastatin 1 methyl 4 phenylpyridinium ion staurosporine an actinomycin such as Actinomycin D or dactinomycin an Anthracyclines such as daunorubicin doxorubicin adriamycin idarubicin epirubicin pirarubicin zorubicin and mtoxantrone and MDR inhibitors such as verapamil and a Ca2 ATPase inhibitors such as thapsigargin and pharmaceutically acceptable salts acids or derivatives of any of the above.

The invention is further described in the following examples which are not intended to limit the scope of the invention.

Cell lines expressing CD71 transferrin receptor or Lewis Y antigen were treated with antibody drug conjugates ADCs . The ADCs were composed of antibodies OKT 9 for CD71 and cBR96 for Lewis Y antigen linked to MMAF or doxorubicin by a linker val cit maleimidocaproyl valine citrulline p aminobenzyloxycarbonyl also referred to as vc . Each ADC contained an average of 8 drugs per mAb. When delivered as an ADC using either antibody MMAF retained its ability to kill drug resistant cell lines. The doxorubicin based ADC was ineffective at killing the resistant cell lines. ADCs carrying valcit MMAF molecules are therefore capable of selectively targeting and killing drug resistant cells as well as sensitive cells.

The following parental and drug resistant cell lines were used to determine their MMAF drug sensitivity. The resistant cell lines exhibit P gp mediated drug resistance.

The activity of various drugs against parental and drug resistant subline pairs was tested. The pairs of cell lines tested were A2780 and A2780adr MES SA and MES SA Dx5 NCI H69 and NCI H69 LX 4 and HL60 and HL60 RV. Cell lines were plated and incubated 24 hr. Culture medium containing serial dilutions of the drugs doxorubicin vincristine cisplatin dolastatin 10 or MMAF were then added. The cultures were incubated to 96 hr and labeled with resazurin. Sensitivity to each drug was measured by determining the ICof the parent and drug resistant subline pair. The drug resistance as fold resistance was determined from the ICvalue of the resistant cell line divided by the ICvalue of the parental line. Mean fold resistance is the average across the cell line panel. The results are shown in Table 3.

Referring to Table 3 the sensitivity or resistance of the cell line pairs is shown. For the drugs doxorubicin vincristine and dolastin the parental cell lines were significantly at least 24 fold more sensitive to the drug than the resistant subline pair. In contrast for the drugs cisplatin and MMAF the difference in sensitivity of the parent and resistant line was thirteen fold or less.

Verapamil is a known inhibitor of the P gp transporter. The following study was conducted to measure the effect of verapamil on P gp mediated transport of doxorubicin vincristine cisplatin and MMAF.

HCT 15 colon carcinoma cells were plated and allowed to adhere to the plates. Neat culture medium or medium containing 40 M verapamil was added and the cultures were incubated for 4 hr. Serial dilutions of doxorubicin vincristine cisplatin or MMAF were then added. The cultures were incubated to 96 hr and labeled with resazurin. Referring to Table 4 the values shown are the ICdetermined from 4 parameter curve fits. The fold difference was determined by dividing the ICof the drug alone treatment by that of the verapamil plus drug treated cultures.

As shown in Table 4 addition of verapamil to the culture medium dramatically increased sensitivity to vincristine a known substrate for P gp. In contrast the sensitivity to doxorubicin cisplatin and MMAF was only slightly enhanced by verapamil suggesting that these drugs are poor substrates for P gp.

HCT 15 colon carcinoma cells were plated and allowed to adhere. Neat culture medium or medium containing 40 M verapamil was added and cultures were incubated 4 hr. The target cell surface antigens were CD71 transferrin receptor and Lewis Y antigen. ADCs were synthesized using OKT 9 as the anti CD71 mAb and cBR96 as the mAb against anti Lewis Y antigen vc maleimidocaproyl valine citrulline p aminobenzyloxycarbonyl as the linker and MMAF and doxorubicin as the drugs. Each ADC had approximately 8 drugs mAb. Serial dilutions of the ADCs were added to the cultures.

The cultures were incubated to 96 hr and labeled with resazurin. Referring to Table 5 the values shown are the ICdetermined from 4 parameter curve fits. The fold difference was calculated by dividing the ICof the drug treatment alone by that of the verapamil plus drug treated cultures.

When delivered as an ADC using an antibody against either CD71 mOKT 9 or Lewis Y antigen cBR96 MMAF demonstrated an ability to kill drug resistant cell lines. This drug resistance was not significantly enhanced by the presence of verapamil. The doxorubicin based ADC was ineffective at killing the resistant cell line exhibiting an ICat least 1000 greater than that of the MMAF ADC. The effect of OKT9 vc doxorubicin ADC which showed no activity in the presence or absence of verapamil is not included in the table. Verapamil was much less effective at increasing MMAF ADC mediated cell toxicity as compared with doxorubicin ADC mediated toxicity.

Effect of Antibody Drug Conjugates of MMAF or Doxorubicin on a Parental and P glycoprotein expressing Cell Lines.

NCI H69 parent and NCI H69 LX4 drug resistant cell lines small cell lung carcinoma were plated and incubated for 24 hr. Serial dilutions of the ADCs mOKT9 vcMMAF cBR96 vcMMAF or cBR96 vcDoxorubicin were then added. The cultures were incubated to 6 days then labeled with resazurin during the last 24 hr. Referring to Table 6 the values are the ICin mg mL determined from 4 parameter curve fits. The fold difference was calculated by dividing the ICof the NCI H69 LX4 cell line by that of the NCI H69 cell line.

When delivered as an ADC using mOKT 9 or cBR96 MMAF demonstrated a comparable or slightly enhanced ability to kill drug the resistant cell line NCI H69 LX4 as compared to the parent cell line Table 6 middle columns . In contrast the doxorubicin based ADC was significantly less effective at killing the resistant cell line.

NCI ADR RES cells were plated and allowed to adhere. Neat culture medium or medium containing 40 M verapamil was added and the cultures were incubated for 4 hr. Serial dilutions of the free drugs doxorubicin cisplatin or MMAF or MMAF ADCs cBR96 vcMMAF or mOKT9 vcMMAF were then added. The cultures were incubated to 96 hr and labeled with resazurin. Referring to Table 7 the values are the ICin mM doxorubicin cisplatin MMAF or mg mL cBR96 vcMMAF mOKT9 vcMMAF determined from 4 parameter curve fits. The fold difference is determined by dividing the ICfrom the drug alone treatment by that of the drug treated plus verapamil cultures.

The cytotoxicity of the free drug cisplatin was largely unaffected by addition of the P gp inhibitor verapamil. The cytotoxicity of MMAF increased to some extent in the presence of verapamil. In contrast the toxicity of doxorubicin markedly increased in the presence of verapamil. As shown above when MMAF was introduced as an ADC cBR96 vcMMAF or mOKT9 vcMMAF its toxicity was only marginally enhanced in the presence of verapamil.

In summary this study demonstrates that MMAF is a poor substrate for the P gp transporter. Antibody drug conjugates carrying vc MMAF molecules are capable of selectively targeting and killing P gp overexpressing cell lines drug resistant as well as parental cell lines. This effect is independent of antigen system and represents a new method for eradicating drug resistant tumors in patients.

MMAF is an antimitotic auristatin derivative with a charged C terminal phenylalanine residue that attenuates its cytotoxic activity most likely due to impaired intracellular access. In vitro cytotoxicity studies indicated that mAb maleimidocaproyl valine citrulline p aminobenzyloxycarbonyl MMAF mAb L1 MMAF conjugates showed 2 200 fold more anti proliferative activity than free MMAF on a large panel of CD30 positive hematologic cell lines. MMAF ADCs induced complete and partial regressions of established xenograft tumors at well tolerated doses. To further optimize the ADC several linker variants were generated in which various components within the L1 linker were either altered or deleted. One of the linkers contained a non cleavable maleimidocaproyl L4 spacer between the drug and the mAb. cAC10 L4 MMAF was approximately as potent in vitro as AC10 L1 MMAF against a large panel of cell lines and was equally potent in vivo. AC10 L4 MMAF was tolerated at 3 times the MTD of AC10 L1 MMAF. LC MS studies indicated that drug released from AC10 L4 MMAF was the cysteine L4 MMAF adduct which likely arises from mAb degradation within the lysosomes of target cells. This linker technology appears to be ideally suited for drugs that are both relatively cell impermeable and tolerant of substitution with amino acids.

Unless otherwise noted materials were obtained from commercial suppliers in the highest purity grade available and used without further purifications. Anhydrous DMF and CHClwere purchased from Aldrich. N Fmoc L ring C Phenylalanine was obtained from Cambridge Isotope laboratories Inc. Andover Mass. . 2 Chlorotrityl chloride resin was purchased from Advanced ChemTech and loaded with N Fmoc L ring C phenylalanine according to manufacture s specifications. Phenylalanine 2 chlorotrityl resin was purchased from Novabiochem. The phenylalanine loading level of the resin was determined 0.55 mmol gram by extensive acylation with Fmoc Cl followed by spectrophotometric Fmoc quantitation assay. Solid phase synthesis was performed in plastic syringes National Scientific Company fitted with a filter cut out of fritware PE medium grade porous sheet Scienceware . A Burrell Wrist Action shaker Burrell Scientific Pittsburg Pa. was used for agitation. All solid phase yields reported are based upon the initial phenylalanine substitution level of the resin and constitute a mass balance of isolated pure material from support unless otherwise stated. Fmoc Dap was custom synthesized by Albany Molecular Research Inc. Albany N.Y. .

HPLC assays were performed using a C12 Phenomenex Synergy MAX RP 4 80 reversed phase column 150 2.0 mm. The eluent was a linear gradient of acetonitrile from 5 to 95 in 5 mM aqueous ammonium phosphate pH 7.0 in 10 min then 95 acetonitrile for 10 min flow rate 1 mL min 215 nm detection. Preparative HPLC purifications were performed on a Varian instrument equipped with a C12 Phenomenex Synergy MAX RP 4 reversed phase column 250 21.2 mm and eluting with 0.1 TFA in a water acetonitrile gradient. Flash chromatography was carried out using Whatman 60 230 400 mesh ASTM silica gel.

Low resolution mass spectra LCMS were recorded on a ZMD Micromass Single Quadrupole Mass Spectrometer equipped with an electrospray ion source 45 eV coupled with HP1100 HPLC system reverse phase C12 Phenomenex column 4 100 150 2.0 mm . The eluent was a linear gradient of acetonitrile from 5 to 95 in water in the presence of 0.1 formic acid in 10 min then 95 acetonitrile for 5 min flow rate 400 L min . High resolution exact mass electrospray ionization data were obtained at the University of Washington Medicinal Chemistry Mass Spectrometry Center on a Bruker APEXIII 47e FT ICR MS. NMR data were recorded on Varian Mercury 400 MHz Instrument. Chemical shifts are reported in ppm downfield from an internal solvent peak J values are in hertz.

The chimeric IgGcAC10 Wahl et al. 2002 Cancer Res. 62 3736 42 and cBR96 Trail et al. 1993 Science 261 212 5 mAbs recognize the CD30 and Lewis Y antigens respectively. The human lymphoma cell lines Karpas 299 SUP M2 SU DHL 1 SR 786 DEL HDLM 2 L428 KMH 2 and WSU NHL were obtained from the DSMZ Braunschweig Germany . 786 O and Caki 1 renal cell carcinoma and HH lymphoma cell lines were purchased from the ATCC Manassas Va. . H3396 breast carcinoma cells were obtained as described earlier Wahl et al. supra . The parent drug resistant cell line pair NCI H69 NCI H69 LX4 was obtained from the ECACC Salisbury England and the Hodgkin s disease cell line L540cy has been previously described Reeve et al. 1989 Br. J. Cancer 60 339 42 . All cell lines were grown according to the manufacturers recommendations and routinely checked for mycoplasma contamination.

To a solution of MMAE Doronina et al. 2003 Nat. Biotechnol. 21 778 84 72 mg 0.1 mmol in anhydrous CHCl 2 mL 6 maleimidocaproic acid 30 mg 0.15 mmol 1.5 equiv was added followed by DEPC 36 l 0.2 mmol 2 equiv and DIEA 55 l 0.3 mmol 3 equiv . The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 2 h. CHCl 30 mL was added and the mixture was washed with 10 aqueous citric acid 2 20 mL water 20 mL brine 20 mL and concentrated to near dryness. Product was isolated by flash chromatography on silica gel eluting with 5 MeOH in CHClto give a white solid 32 mg 35 . Reversed phase HPLC analysis 98 at 9.48 min. H NMR DMSO d 0.70 0.89 18H m 0.95 1.05 6H m 1.19 1.34 m 1.44 1.55 m 1.66 1.84 m 1.88 2.02 m 2.06 2.16 m 2.22 2.46 m 2.81 s 2.86 s 2.90 s 2.93 s 2.97 d 3.01 3.08 m 3.12 d 3.17 d 3.20 d 3.23 dd 3.35 3.40 m 3.42 3.50 m 3.52 3.59 m 3.77 d 3.93 4.04 m 4.37 4.54 m 4.59 4.64 m 4.70 4.78 m 5.36 d 5.43 d 7.01 7.02 2H m 7.14 7.31 5H m 7.65 d 7.74 d 7.78 d 7.89 7.92 m 8.56 8.61 m HRMS ESI calcd for CHNO MH 911.5858 found m z 911.5839.

Fmoc MeVal Val Dil Doronina et al. supra 0.50 g 0.78 mmol and Dap Phe OMe.HCl Doronina et al. supra 0.30 g 0.78 mmol were dissolved in CHCl 5 mL followed by the addition of DIEA 0.30 mL 1.71 mmol 2.2 equiv . DEPC 0.20 mL 1.17 mmol 1.5 equiv was added next while the contents stirred under Argon Ar . The reaction was complete according to HPLC analysis after 1 h. The mixture was concentrated and purified on silica gel eluting with a step gradient of EtOAc from 50 to 100 in hexane to provide a white foam 0.65 g 87 . Reversed phase HPLC analysis 95 at 16.2 min. H NMR DMSO d 0.71 0.95 20H m 1.01 1.07 3H dd 1.22 1.30 m 1.34 1.52 m 1.60 1.83 m 1.92 2.11 m 2.16 2.28 2H m 2.31 2.42 m 2.79 2.89 m 2.96 3.07 m 3.15 3.16 m 3.19 s 3.24 s 3.29 d 3.42 3.55 m 3.63 1.5H s 3.66 1.5H s 3.75 0.5H d 3.96 1H m 4.09 4.11 m 4.21 4.51 m 4.61 4.74 m 7.15 7.23 5H m 7.31 2H t 7.41 3H t 7.62 2H d 7.89 2H d 8.05 0.5H d 8.11 0.5H d 8.29 0.5H d 8.51 0.5H d . LCMS ESI m z 968.35 MH eluted at 14.84 min .

Fmoc MMAF OMe 140 mg 0.14 mmol in CHCl 5 mL was treated with diethylamine 2 mL . After 2 h the reaction was concentrated and purified by preparative HPLC to give a TFA salt of MMAF OMe as a white solid 126 mg 98 . Reversed phase HPLC analysis 94 at 11.25 min. H NMR DMSO d 0.77 3H m 0.87 1.07 19H m 1.22 1.32 m 1.37 1.52 m 1.60 1.88 m 1.96 2.12 m 2.18 2.29 m 2.32 2.54 m 2.83 2.90 m 2.99 s 3.07 s 3.16 3.20 m 3.26 s 3.42 3.58 m 3.66 s 3.75 d 3.98 m 4.43 4.52 m 4.55 4.76 m 7.17 7.58 5H m 8.30 0.5H d 8.56 0.5H d 8.83 8.93 3H m . HRMS ESI calcd for CHNO MH 746.5068. found m z 746.5037.

MMAF OMe.TFA 110 mg 0.13 mmol 1.0 equiv maleimidocaproyl Val Cit PAB OCO pNP Dubowchik et al. 2002 Bioconjug. Chem. 13 855 69 103 mg 0.14 mmol 1.1 equiv and HOBt 3.4 mg 26 mol 0.2 equiv were dissolved in pyridine 0.5 mL and DMF 2 mL under Ar. To this mixture was added DIEA 22.5 L 0.13 mmol 1.0 equiv . The resulting solution stirred for 3 h before more DIEA 22.5 L was added. After stirring for 40 h total the mixture was concentrated taken up in DMSO 2 mL . Preparative HPLC purification followed by precipitation from CHCl 2 mL with ether resulted in 90 mg 52 of white solid. Reversed phase HPLC analysis 95 at 9.48 min. H NMR DMSO d 0.72 0.94 28H m 1.02 1.06 3H dd 1.14 1.52 m 1.54 1.82 m 1.90 2.38 m 2.28 2.46 m 2.85 br s 2.97 s 3.04 s 3.16 s 3.18 s 3.20 s 3.25 s 3.28 3.30 m 3.42 3.58 m 3.63 s 3.66 s 3.75 d 3.96 m 4.17 4.21 m 4.23 4.28 m 4.32 4.42 m 4.44 4.55 m 4.60 4.74 m 4.94 5.12 m 6.01 1H br s 7.01 2H s 7.18 7.32 9H m 7.58 2H m 7.81 1H d 8.07 8.12 1.5H m 8.29 1H m 8.51 0.5H d 10.0 1H d . HRMS ESI calcd for CHNO MH 1344.7819 found m z 1344.7776.

To a suspension of 6 maleimidocaproic acid 1.0 g 4.52 mmol in CHCl 13.0 mL was added p aminobenzyl alcohol 1.11 g 9.04 mmol 2.0 equiv and EEDQ 2.24 g 9.04 mmol 2.0 equiv . The reaction mixture was stirred at ambient temperature for 16 h and then concentrated to near dryness. The residue was purified by flash chromatography on silica gel eluting with a step gradient from 25 to 100 ethyl acetate in hexane to give 1.38 g 96 of maleimidocaproyl PABOH as a white solid. Maleimidocaproyl PABOH 0.85 g 2.69 mmol was then activated by reaction with bis p nitrophenyl carbonate 2.45 g 8.07 mmol 3 equiv and DIEA 0.94 mL 5.38 mmol 2 equiv in DMF 10 mL . After 1 hour HPLC analysis indicated complete consumption of starting material. Solvent was removed under reduced pressure and the residue was triturated with diethyl ether 5 20 mL resulting in 1.25 g 96 of an off white solid. Reversed phase HPLC analysis 99 at 9.98 min. H NMR CDCl 1.37 2H m 1.64 2H m 1.77 2H m 2.37 2H t J 7.6 3.54 2H t J 7.2 6.68 2H s 7.37 2H d J 9.2 7.41 2H d J 8.8 7.57 2H d J 8.8 8.27 2H d J 9.2 .

Fmoc Dap 450 mg 1.1 mmol and HATU 418 mg 1.1 mmol 2 equiv were dissolved in anhydrous DMF 8 mL and DIEA 384 l 2.2 mmol 4 equiv . The resulting solution was added to the 20 mL syringe containing Phe 2 chlorotrityl resin 1 g 0.55 mmol . The mixture was agitated for 3 h. Reaction completion was determined by LCMS analysis of material cleaved off a small amount of resin. The resin was filtered washed with DMF 6 10 mL CHCl 6 10 mL ethyl ether 6 10 mL and dried in vacuo for 2 h. A 20 piperidine in DMF solution 5 mL was added to the syringe and the mixture was agitated for 2 h. The resin was then filtered rinsed with DMF 6 10 mL CHCl 6 10 mL ethyl ether 6 10 mL and dried in vacuo. In a separate flask Fmoc MeVal Val Dil tripeptide Doronina et al. supra 702 mg 1.1 mmol HATU 418 mg 1.1 mmol 2 equiv were dissolved in anhydrous DMF 8 mL followed by the addition of DIEA 384 l 2.2 mmol 4 equiv . The solution was then transferred to the syringe containing the resin and the mixture was agitated for 3 h. LCMS analysis of material cleaved from a small amount of resin was used to determine reaction completion. The resin was filtered washed with DMF 6 10 mL CHCl 6 10 mL ethyl ether 6 10 mL and dried in vacuo for 2 h. A 20 piperidine solution in DMF 5 mL was added to the resin and the mixture was agitated for 2 h. The resin was then filtered washed with DMF 6 10 mL CHCl 6 10 mL ethyl ether 6 10 mL and dried in vacuo.

MeVal Val Dil Dap Phe 2 chlorotrityl resin 100 mg 0.044 mmol in a 5 mL syringe was treated with 2 TFA in CHCl 4 mL for 5 min at ambient temperature. Preparative HPLC purification provided 27 mg 73 of white solid. Reversed phase HPLC analysis 95 at 5.74 min. H NMR DMF d 0.78 3H t 0.90 1.15 19H m 1.28 1.44 m 1.46 1.62 m 1.75 2.00 m 2.03 2.12 m 2.14 2.23 m 2.24 2.48 m 2.50 2.61 m 2.78 2.82 m 2.97 3.09 m 3.12 s 3.18 3.21 m 3.26 d 3.30 s 3.34 s 3.41 3.46 m 3.49 d 3.53 3.60 m 3.61 3.69 m 3.72 3.78 m 3.93 d 4.10 2H br d 4.12 4.38 1H br 4.64 4.92 3H m 7.21 7.35 5H m 8.12 0.5H d 8.40 0.5H d 8.78 8.83 1H m 9.03 1H br s 9.63 1H br s . HRMS ESI calcd for CHNO MH 732.4911 found m z 732.4890.

MeVal Val Dil Dap Phe 2 chlorotrityl resin 120 mg 0.053 mmol in 5 mL syringe was treated with a solution of maleimidocaproyl Val Cit PAB OCOpNP 313 mg 0.42 mmol 8 equiv HOAt 2 mg 0.015 mmol 0.3 equiv and DIEA 148 L 0.84 mmol 16 equiv in DMF 4 ml for 16 h. The resin was then filtered washed with DMF 6 3 mL CHCl 6 3 mL and ethyl ether 6 3 mL . Cleavage from resin by treatment with 2 TFA in CHCl 4 mL for 5 min and preparative HPLC purification of the released material generated 15 mg 21 of white solid that was 98 pure by reversed phase HPLC analysis retention time 7.20 min . H NMR DMSO d 0.75 0.95 28H m 1.05 3H t 1.14 m 1.22 1.53 m 1.53 1.80 m 1.80 2.40 m 2.80 br s 2.96 d 3.11 s 3.13 s 3.20 s 3.62 3.70 d 3.83 3.94 m 4.08 4.24 m 4.28 4.5 m 4.50 4.68 m 4.90 5.10 m 5.35 s 5.96 1H t 7.02 2H s 7.08 7.32 9H m 7.54 2H d 7.80 d 8.04 8.12 m 8.16 8.33 m 10.0 1H br s . HRMS ESI calcd for CHNO MH 1330.7663. found m z 1330.7665.

Fmoc Cit 140 mg 0.352 mmol and Fmoc Val 60 mg 0.176 mmol were coupled sequentially to MeVal Val Dil Dap Phe 2 chlorotrityl resin 200 mg 0.088 mmol using HATU coupling chemistry as described above for MeVal Val Dil Dap Phe 2 chlorotrityl resin. Then to the dry Val Cit MeVal Val Dil Dap Phe 2 chlorotrityl resin a solution of 6 maleimidocaproic acid N hydroxysuccinimide ester 54 mg 0.176 mmol in DMF 3 mL was added. The mixture was shaken at room temperature for 4 h. Cleavage from resin by treatment with 2 TFA in CHCl 4 mL for 5 min provided 28 mg 27 of white solid after preparative HPLC purification. Reversed phase HPLC analysis 98 at 6.16 min. H NMR DMF d 0.69 0.92 28H m 1.01 1.06 3H m 1.17 m 1.42 1.53 m 1.53 1.68 m 1.70 2.28 m 2.28 2.46 m 2.74 2.88 m 2.89 3.00 m 3.04 3.06 m 3.15 s 3.18 s 3.24 s 3.40 3.47 m 3.48 3.58 m 3.59 3.68 m 3.71 3.76 d 3.96 m 4.14 t 4.23 m 4.38 4.52 m 4.58 4.76 m 4.89 m 5.95 m 7.01 2H s 7.17 7.28 5H m 7.77 m 7.89 m 7.96 m 8.04 m 8.17 m 8.28 m 8.38 d 8.47 m . HRMS ESI calcd for CHNO MH 1181.7186 found m z 1181.7164.

MeVal Val Dil Dap Phe 2 chlorotrityl resin 100 mg 0.044 mmol was treated with a solution of maleimidocaproyl PAB OCO pNP 42 mg 0.088 mmol 2 equiv and HOBt 1 mg 9 mol 0.1 equiv and DIEA 30 L 0.176 mmol 4 equiv in DMF 3 ml for 16 h. The resin was then filtered washed with DMF 6 3 mL CHCl 6 3 mL and ethyl ether 6 3 mL . Cleavage from resin by treatment with 2 TFA in CHCl 4 mL for 5 min followed by preparative HPLC purification provided 31 mg 66 of white solid which was 99 pure by reversed phase HPLC analysis retention time 7.14 min . H NMR DMF d 0.76 0.98 18H m 1.04 2H d 1.12 3H m 1.25 1.40 m 1.51 1.61 m 1.63 1.69 m 1.76 1.90 m 1.94 2.40 m 1.35 2.38 m 2.50 2.60 m 2.96 s 3.10 s 3.23 s 3.27 s 3.30 s 3.34 s 3.41 3.50 m 3.50 3.80 m 3.90 4.20 m 4.33 4.48 m 4.54 4.62 m 4.63 4.77 m 4.82 4.93 m 5.06 5.20 m 7.02 2H s 7.36 7.21 9H m 7.70 2H d 8.11 0.5H d 8.36 0.5H d 10.00 1H br s . HRMS ESI calcd for CHNO MH 1074.6127 found m z 1074.6095.

6 Maleimidocaproic acid 37 mg 0.176 mmol 2 equiv and HATU 67 mg 0.176 mmol 2 equiv were dissolved in anhydrous DMF 3 mL followed by the addition of DIEA 62 l 0.35 mmol 4 equiv . The solution was then transferred to a 5 mL syringe containing MeVal Val Dil Dap Phe 2 chlorotrityl resin 200 mg 0.088 mmol and the mixture was agitated for 3 h. The resin was filtered washed with DMF 6 3 mL CHCl 6 3 mL ethyl ether 6 3 mL and dried in vacuo. Drug linker was cleaved off the resin by treatment with 2 TFA in CHCl 4 mL for 5 min and then purified by preparative HPLC to give 57 mg 70 of white solid. Reversed phase HPLC analysis 98 at 6.72 min. H NMR DMF d 0.78 0.96 18H m 1.04 2H t 1.12 3H m 1.25 1.36 m 1.41 2H d 1.46 1.65 m 1.73 1.87 m 1.88 2.07 m 2.08 2.26 m 2.32 2.48 m 2.48 2.67 m 2.79 2.84 m 2.96 d 3.02 d 3.10 d 3.23 d 3.27 s 3.30 s 3.34 s 3.45 t 3.52 3.61 m 3.62 3.80 m 3.93 d 4.09 4.28 m 4.54 4.78 m 4.82 4.91 2H m 7.03 2H s 7.21 7.35 5H m 7.51 0.5H d 8.11 0.5H d 8.36 0.5H d 8.48 0.5H d 13.0 br s . HRMS ESI calcd for CHNO MH 925.5650 found m z 925.5636.

Maleimidocaproy C MMAF L4 C MMAF was prepared as described above starting from N Fmoc L ring C phenylalanine 2 chlorotrityl resin. LCMS ESI m z 931.62 MH .

The conjugates with 8 drug molecules per antibody were prepared as described previously Doronina et al. supra Francisco et al. 2003 Blood 102 1458 65 . Briefly cBR96 or cAC10 were mixed with DTT at 37 C. for 30 min and the buffer was exchanged by elution through Sephadex G 25 resin with PBS containing 1 mmol L diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid. PBS containing 1 mmol L diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid was added to reduce mAb final concentration to 2.5 mg mL. The thiol concentration was 8.4 thiols mAb as measured by Ellman s reagent DTNB. A 9.5 fold molar excess of linker drug L1 MMAF L1 Dox Dubowchik et al. 2002 supra L1 MMAE Doronina et al. supra or L4 MMAE was added to the reduced antibody at 4 C. for 1 h and the conjugation reaction was quenched by adding a 20 fold excess of cysteine. The reaction mixture was concentrated by centrifugal ultrafiltration and buffer exchanged through Sephadex G 25 equilibrated with PBS at 4 C. The conjugate was then sterile filtered through a 0.2 m filter.

cAC10 antibody drug conjugates with four drugs per antibody were prepared by partial reduction of the mAb Hamblett et al. 2004 Clin. Cancer Res. 10 7063 70 Sun et al. 2005 Bioconjug. Chem. 16 1282 90 followed by reaction with desired linker drug L1 MMAF L2 MMAF L3 MMAF or L4 MMAF . The antibody cAC10 10 mg mL was partially reduced by addition of 3.0 molar equivalents of DTT at pH 8.0 followed by incubation at 37 C. for 2 h. The reduction reaction was then chilled to 10 C. and the excess DTT removed via diafiltration. The thiol concentration was determined by DTNB and the SH Ab ratio found to be in the range of 3.8 4.5. The linker drug was then added to a linker drug reduced cysteine molar ratio of 1.15. The conjugation reaction was carried out in the presence of 15 v v of DMSO. After conjugation excess free cysteine 2 mol L cysteine per mol L linker drug was added to quench unreacted linker drug to produce the cysteine linker drug adduct. The reaction mixture was purified and buffer exchanged into PBS by diafiltration to obtain the partially loaded cAC10 linker drug conjugate referred to as cAC10 Lx MMAF. The molar ratio of drug substitution was determined according to previously published methods Hamblett et al. supra Sun et al. supra .

Lysosomal extracts of L540cy cells were prepared by swelling 2.4 10cells in 9 mL of 0.25 M sucrose 1 mM EDTA and 10 mM HEPES pH 7.4. After 30 min on ice cells were Dounce homogenized until 95 were broken as measured by Trypan Blue dye exclusion. Homogenates were centrifuged 3 000 g 10 min 4 C. to pellet cellular debris the supernatant 4 10cell equivalents per tube transferred to polyallomar ultracentrifuge tubes 13 51 mm and centrifuged 17 000 g 15 min 4 C. in a TLA100.3 rotor to isolate the lysosome containing light mitochondrial pellet. Pellets were stored at 80 C. The pellets were thawed and resuspended in 500 l of 50 mM sodium acetate pH 5.0 and 2 mM DTT. cAC10 L4 C MMAF cAC10 L4 C MMAF and cAC10 L4 C MMAF 50 g mL were independently added to one pellet. After three freeze thaw cycles to break open lysosomes samples were incubated for 24 h at 37 C. Cold methanol 2 vol was added to precipitate protein the samples centrifuged at 14 000 g to pellet debris and 100 L of supernatant analyzed by low resolution mass spectrometry as described above. Authentic cysteine L4 MMAF was prepared by treating 100 M L4 MMAF with 1 mM cysteine in PBS at room temperature for 10 min.

Log phase cultures of cells were collected and cells plated at seeding densities ranging from 500 10 000 cells well according to pre determined conditions. After incubating 24 h to allow surface protein reconstitution serial dilutions of test molecules were added and cultures incubated a further 4 6 days depending on cell line. Assessment of cellular growth and data reduction to generate ICvalues was done using Alamar Blue Biosource International Camarillo Calif. dye reduction assay as previously described according to previously published methods Doronina et al. supra Hamblett et al. supra Law et al. 2004 Clin. Cancer Res. 10 7842 51 Francisco et al. supra . Briefly a 40 solution wt vol of Alamar Blue was freshly prepared in complete media just before cultures were added. Ninety two hours after drug exposure Alamar Blue solution was added to cells to constitute 10 culture volume. Cells were incubated for 4 h and dye reduction was measured on a Fusion HT fluorescent plate reader Packard Instruments Meriden Conn. .

For the localized subcutaneous disease model of anaplastic large cell lymphoma 5 10Karpas 299 cells were implanted into the right flanks of C.B. 17 SCID mice. Therapy was initiated when the tumor size in each group of 5 animals averaged approximately 100 mm. Treatments consisted of a single injection of solutions of the conjugates or controls in PBS intravenously tail vein . Tumor volume was determined using the formula L W 2. For the disseminated ALCL model 1 10Karpas 299 were injected in the tail vein into C.B. 17 SCID mice. Single dose injection treatment was performed at 9 days after tumor injection. Mice that developed hind limb paralysis or other signs of significant disease were euthanized in accordance with Animal Care and Use Committee guidelines.

When subcutaneous Karpas 299 tumor size reached 300 mm three animals per group received one injection of 10 mg antibody component kg body weight of either cAC10 L1 MMAFor cBR96 L1 MMAFintravenously. Tumors were then removed and placed in OCT compound Sakura Finetec Torrence Calif. and 5 m thin frozen tissue sections were stained using immunohistochemistry evaluation. Briefly frozen tissues on the slides were air dried then fixed in 4 paraformaldehyde for 15 min at room temperature. Endogenous peroxidase activity was blocked using 0.6 HOfor 15 min. Additional blocking for endogenous biotin was done using the Avidin Biotin Blocking kit Vector Labs . Biotinylated anti human Fc and biotinylated anti drug antibodies both Seattle Genetics were incubated on tissues at 2 g ml concentration for 1 hr at room temperature. Following incubation of slides with avidin conjugated to HRP Vectastatin Elite ABC kit Vector Labs DAB was used as a substrate for HRP. Tissues were counterstained using hematoxylin slides were dehydrated and coverslipped. Images were taken using the Zeiss Axiovert light microscope.

Apoptosis was evaluated by TUNEL Staining In Situ Cell Death Detection Kit TR Red Roche Applied Science Germany according to the manufacturer s instructions. TUNEL staining was carried out on sections of frozen specimens embedded in OCT. Labeling was visualized by Zeiss Axiovert fluorescence microscopy.

The structure of the antimitotic agent MMAE is shown in . This drug has previously displayed ICvalues in the range of 1 5 nM on hematologic cell lines Doronina et al. supra Law et al. supra and was designed for mAb based targeted delivery using peptide based linkers appended to the N terminal methylvaline residue Doronina et al. supra Francisco et al. supra . The synthesis of MMAE proceeded through a solution phase route involving the coupling of the amino protected N terminal trimer to the C terminal dimer. Due to the convergent nature of the process it was possible to produce a large number of auristatins with varied solubilities potencies and pharmacokinetic properties. One molecule that emerged was MMAF OMe a C terminal phenylalanine containing auristatin that remains one of the most potent drugs isolated so far Table 8 . MMAF OMe is a prodrug of MMAF with the potential of having facilitated intracellular uptake due to the presence of a neutral C terminus. In addition intracellular ester hydrolysis of MMAF OMe should rapidly generate MMAF a C terminally charged molecule expected to have impaired membrane translocation capabilities. Therefore MMAF was synthesized using solid phase synthetic methodology and as expected was much less potent than MMAE on all cell lines tested Table 8 . In addition the maximum tolerated dose in mice of MMAF 16 mg kg was much higher than MMAE 1 mg kg . Thus MMAF was of great interest for targeted delivery since the free drug had attenuated potency lower toxicity and much higher aqueous solubility compared to MMAE. Facilitated intracellular transport was expected to greatly enhance its activity.

Conjugates of MMAF were produced using the maleimidocaproyl Val Cit PABC linker L1 as described earlier for MMAE Doronina et al. supra Francisco et al. supra . The mAbs used were BR96 Trail et al. 1993 supra and AC10 Francisco et al. supra chimeric IgG1 mAbs that bind to the LeY antigen on human carcinomas and the CD30 antigen on hematologic malignancies respectively. Initial studies were undertaken with conjugates that had 8 drugs mAb. More recent data demonstrating improved pharmacokinetic and toxicologic properties of conjugates having lower drug loadings Hamblett et al. supra prompted investigation of the activities of conjugates with fewer drugs mAb. These were obtained through carefully controlled mAb disulfide reduction with limiting amounts of dithiothreitol DTT sufficient to produce an average of 4 thiol groups mAb. Alkylation with drugs bearing thiol reactive maleimide functionalities led to the formation of conjugates having an average of 4 drugs mAb. The resulting distributions of species were as previously described Sun et al. supra . It was found that the ability of the parent unmodified mAb to bind to cell surface receptors was maintained Doronina et al. supra and aggregate 

cAC10 L1 MMAF was tested on a panel of both CD30 positive and negative cell lines as shown in Table 9 infra . Cells were exposed to the ADCs continuously for 96 h and the cytotoxic effects as determined by Alamar Blue conversion were compared to those of free MMAF. On a molar basis the cAC10 L1 MMAF the subscript indicating an average of four MMAF molecules per antibody molecule was an average of 2 200 fold more potent than free MMAF and was active on all the CD30 positive cell lines tested. The effects were immunologically specific since WSU NHL cells which do not express detectable levels of the CD30 antigen were unaffected by the conjugate. Limited studies were also undertaken with the cAC10 L1 MMAF OMebased conjugates and it was found that they displayed ICvalues on Karpas 299 0.04 nM and L540cy 0.11 nM cells that were comparable to those of cAC10 L1 MMAF Table 9 . This is consistent with the assumption stated earlier that the active form of MMAF OMe is the free acid MMAF.

Further studies were undertaken with MMAF and the cBR96 L1 MMAF conjugate on a LeY positive human small cell lung carcinoma cell line H69 and its P glycoprotein overexpres sing counterpart H69 LX4 Reeve et al. supra . The results were compared to doxorubicin and cBR96 L1 doxorubicin a previously described conjugate with 8 doxorubicin molecules mAb Trail et al. 1993 supra Trail et al. 1997 Cancer Res. 57 100 5 . H69 LX 4 cells were approximately 100 times less sensitive to doxorubicin compared to the parental cell while there was only a 3 fold difference with MMAF FIG. B . This trend extended to the conjugates in that the drug resistant cell line was refractory to BR96 L1 doxorubicin but quite sensitive to the corresponding MMAF conjugate . These results have been confirmed on several MDR positive cell lines data not shown in which it has been found that MMAF and MMAF based immunoconjugates circumvent common forms of the MDR phenotype.

The linker joining the drug to the mAb carrier plays a significant role in conjugate potency Wu et al. 2005 Nat. Biotechnol. 23 1137 46 Trail et al. 1997 supra Chari et al. 1992 Cancer Res. 52 127 31 Hamann et al. 2005a Bioconjug. Chem. 16 346 53 Hamann et al. 2005b Bioconjug. Chem. 16 354 60 . Peptide linker technology was applied to MMAF based on its successful application with MMAE Doronina et al. supra Hamblett et al. supra Law et al. supra Francisco et al. supra Sun et al. supra and other drug classes Dubowchik et al. 1999 Pharmacol. Ther. 83 67 123 Dubowchik et al. 1998 Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 8 3341 6 Dubowchik et al. 2002 supra Dubowchik et al. 1998 Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 8 3347 52 .

To expand the understanding of the role that the linker plays in drug release and cytotoxicity truncated linker MMAF derivatives were prepared lacking the p aminobenzyloxycarbonyl PABC self immolative group L2 the peptide L3 and both the peptide and the PABC group L4 . The resulting modified drugs were attached to cAC10 forming ADCs with approximately 4 drugs mAb. As expected from earlier work with related doxorubicin ADCs Dubowchik et al. 1999 supra Dubowchik et al. 1998 supra Dubowchik et al. 2002 supra Dubowchik et al. 1998 supra cAC10 L2 MMAFwas devoid of activity on Karpas 299 cells Table 9 . In contrast both cAC10 L3 MMAF and cAC10 L4 MMAF were highly active and were as active as the full length construct cAC10 L1 MMAF . ADCs with truncated linkers L2 L3 and L4 were not substrates for human cathepsin B which was an important design element in forming the original proteolytically cleavable linker technology for doxorubicin Dubowchik et al. 1999 supra Dubowchik et al. 1998 supra Dubowchik et al. 2002 supra Dubowchik et al. 1998 supra . The effects of the truncated linkers were drug dependent in that cAC10 L4 MMAE had no cytotoxic activity above 50 nM 1000 ng mL on Karpas 299 cells.

The results prompted testing of cAC10 L4 MMAFon the broad panel of hematologic cell lines shown in Table 9. The conjugate was active against all CD30 positive cell lines tested and had approximately half the activity of cAC10 L1 MMAF. In addition the effects were immunologically specific as CD30 negative SU NHL cells were not affected by cAC10 L4 MMAF. Thus MMAF can be attached to cAC10 through linkers not designed for proteolytic cleavage without significant loss in potency.

To determine what drug related molecule might be released from the conjugate a C phenylalanine substituted L4 MMAF was synthesized and conjugated to cAC10. C C and a 1 1 mixture of C and C cAC10 L4 MMAF were then incubated in lysosomal extracts of L540cy cells. Low molecular weight products were separated from proteins and were analyzed by LC MS. The identification of released drugs was based on the 6 mass unit shifts between the C and C derivatives of the drug. After inspection of mass spectra for such shifts the only detectable drug related molecule that was found was the cysteine adduct of maleimidocaproyl MMAF . To confirm this a sample of cysteine L4 MMAF was synthesized and was shown to have the same elution and LC MS profile as the drug released from the cAC10 L4 MMAFADC. The mAb is the likely source for cysteine in cysteine L4 MMAF since this was the residue to which the drug was attached. Thus drug release takes place through mAb degradation.

The maximum tolerated doses MTDs of the cAC10 MMAF conjugates were determined in BALB c mice and in Sprague Dawley rats and are defined as the highest dose that did not induce more than 20 weight loss distress or overt toxicities in any of the animals. This dose was generally within 20 of doses where such events took place. cAC10 L1 MMAFhas an MTD of 50 mg kg in mice and 15 mg kg in rats. The corresponding cAC10 L4 MMAFADC was much less toxic having MTDs in mice and rats of more than 150 mg kg the highest dose tested which resulted in no apparent toxicity and 90 mg kg in rats respectively. This result indicates that the method by which the drug is attached to the mAb can affect ADC tolerability and the ADC lacking the peptide spacer within the linker was much less toxic than the peptide based ADC.

Studies were undertaken to determine if cAC10 L1 MMAFlocalized into subcutaneous Karpas 299 tumors in nude mice. Animals were injected intravenously with cAC10 L1 MMAFor cBR96 L1 MMAFat 10 mg antibody component kg body weight. Tumors were removed 24 h later and frozen sections were evaluated for the presence of the mAb and drug components using immunohistochemistry with biotinylated anti human Fc and anti MMAF mAbs as secondary antibodies respectively. The results showed that cAC10 L1 MMAFaccumulated much more efficiently within Karpas 299 tumors compared to the cBR96 non binding control ADC. Both the mAb and drug moieties were detected throughout the tumor indicating that the ADC was delivered as an intact molecule.

Additional studies were undertaken to determine the effects of ADC localization on apoptosis. The results showed that there were significant levels of fragmented DNA in tumors of animals that received cAC10 L1 MMAF. This was established by TUNEL analysis which measured bromodeoxyuridine incorporation into fragmented DNA. A non binding control ADC did not induce nearly this level of fragmentation which was consistent with the localization data.

The therapeutic effects of the ADCs were determined in nude mice with subcutaneous or disseminated Karpas 299 tumors. In animals with subcutaneous tumors significant antitumor effects were obtained with a single injection of either cAC10 L1 MMAFor cAC10 L4 MMAF which were indistinguishably potent and active . Nearly all animals that received single ADC injections at 2 mg antibody component kg body weight were cured. In lowering the dose to 1 mg kg efficacy for both ADCs dropped off in an apparently equal manner. At this dose there were still 2 of 6 and 3 of 6 animals cured with the cAC10 L1 MMAFand cAC10 L4 MMAFADCs respectively.

In order to establish disseminated tumors Karpas 299 cells were injected intravenously and allowed to distribute and become established before therapy was initiated 9 days later. In the absence of any treatment all of the animals succumbed to disseminated disease by day 45. A single administration with either cAC10 L1 MMAFor cAC10 L4 MMAFwas sufficient to cure most of the animals with a slight dose response between 0.8 mg kg and 8 mg kg. The differences between the L1 and L4 linkers were not significant in this tumor model. One of the noteworthy findings in this experiment was the level of specificity. The non binding control ADCs cBR96 L1 MMAFand cBR96 L1 MMAFwere inactive even at 8 mg kg which is 10 times the effective dose of the corresponding cAC10 ADCs. Thus the MMAF conjugates exhibit pronounced activity at very well tolerated doses and are highly immunologically specific. Furthermore the therapeutic window of cAC10 L4 MMAFis measurably greater than that of cAC10 L1 MMAF indicating that the linker technology plays a critical role in the design of effective ADCs that can be safely administered.

ADCs comprised of MMAF have distinct properties as compared with those composed of other drugs. The activities of MMAF are potentiated an average of 2 200 fold when the drug is attached through the L1 linker to cAC10 a mAb that is efficiently taken up within the lysosomes of target cells Table 9 . This study describes the activity of cAC10 L4 MMAF an ADC that has no built in provision for drug release. Purified human enzymes that were tested were unable to facilitate release of MMAF or any identifiable MMAF fragments yet cAC10 L4 MMAFis highly potent both in vitro and in vivo. The mechanism of drug release may involve degradation of the mAb based on the identification of the cysteine adduct of L4 MMAF.

The data in Table 10 also demonstrate that the various linkers within the MMAF ADC family provide a range of cytotoxic activities. The fact that cAC10 L2 MMAFwas inactive suggests that the released agent from the L2 MMAF ADC is highly attenuated in activity. The cAC10 L4 MMAFwas used for further work rather than cAC10 L3 MMAF since the PABC group in the L3 linker is hydrophobic and apparently unnecessary for activity.

The objective of the study with various linkers was to determine if the mode of drug release could affect ADC therapeutic index. cAC10 L4 MMAFdiffered from cAC10 L1 MMAFby an average of only 2 fold on a large panel of hematologic cell lines Table 9 in spite of the fact that L1 linker cleavage is quite facile through enzymes such as cathepsin B while drug release through the L4 linker requires antibody degradation. This observation provided the basis for in vivo experiments since it was anticipated that the different pathways required for drug elimination could strongly influence the therapeutic windows of the ADCs. Indeed it was found that cAC10 L4 MMAFwas tolerated at significantly higher doses in rodents than cAC10 L1 MMAF but was equally efficacious in vivo. These results reported herein suggest that the therapeutic window is increased by at least 3 fold through the L4 linker system.

Hybridoma S2C6 secreting native monoclonal antibody S2C6 was deposited on May 25 1999 with the American Type Culture Collection ATCC 10801 University Boulevard Manassass Va. 20110 2209 under the provisions of the Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the Purpose of Patent Procedures and assigned accession number PTA 110.

The present invention is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments described herein. Indeed various modifications of the invention in addition to those described herein will become apparent to those skilled in the art from the foregoing description and accompanying figures. Such modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the appended claims. Various references including patent applications patents and scientific publications are cited herein the disclosures of each of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

