---

title: System and method for verifying the age of an internet user
abstract: A method of verifying the age of a prospective Internet user comprises establishing an age check account; receiving information about a user, the information including an alleged age of the user; sending the information to be verified; and receiving a notification that the information has been verified.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08650621&OS=08650621&RS=08650621
owner: Virtual Piggy, Inc.
number: 08650621
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100903
---
This application claims the priority and benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 272 233 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 272 235 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 272 234 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 272 232 all of which were filed on Sep. 3 2009 and are incorporated herein by reference.

This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 991 053 which claims the priority and benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 272 233 which was filed on Sep. 3 2009 and is incorporated herein by reference.

This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 991 059 which claims the priority and benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 272 232 which was filed on Sep. 3 2009 and is incorporated herein by reference.

This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 991 057 which claims the priority and benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 272 234 which was filed on Sep. 3 2009 and is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to a system and method for age verification and more particularly to a system and method for verifying the age of an Internet user to insure that the user seeking to gain access to an Internet application is at least of the age appropriate.

Children today have never known a world without the Internet. Children see their friends interacting and playing online and there is ever increasing pressure on parents from their children to allow the children to be online. In numerous instances children are not protected by media companies and are being placed in extreme danger posed by online predators. Until measures are taken to provide a secure online environment for younger age groups the online safety of children is compromised.

Generally parental control systems fall under one of two categories. First active parental control systems prevent a child from accessing information that the parent does not want them to access. For example active parental control systems include programs such as hardware and software firewalls as well as hardware access controls tools or systems that prevent certain types of data from being presented to a user. Second passive parental control systems allow parents to audit information that their children have been accessing and activities that their children engaged in while they were online on a computer system or on a managed or unmanaged network. For example passive parental control systems include systems that audit user access and activity information in managed and unmanaged networks and present this information to parents.

With the increased penetration of the Internet parents are more interested in knowing what their children are doing when they use a computer including the websites they visit and the individuals with whom they are communicating. While active and passive controls help parents manage and control some of this information there are no provisions for parents to control the types of services their children may sign up for on the Internet. Sign up is a common step with Internet based applications. The sign up process allows users to register for services provided by Internet based applications.

Active and passive parental control systems do not provide any support for being able to communicate and enforce parental preferences when it comes to sign up of services on web based and Internet enabled desktop applications. Broad classifications such as Entertainment Software Rating Board ESRB ratings do not provide parents with the level of control they would like with respect to sign up preferences for the children.

Using the Internet has become extremely easy and one aspect of this ease is that children of very young ages are able to gain access to Internet websites of all kinds. Juxtaposed with this ease is the Children s Online Privacy Protection Act COPPA which lays out specific guidelines for how website operators and online businesses must interact with children 13 year old and younger. In general COPPA requires parental notification and consent prior to an online operator s collecting using or disclosing a child s personal information. COPPA does make provisions for accounts for children under 13 with certain conditions including parental consent being imposed on the users. Compliance with COPPA can be daunting for an online business. While some online businesses are taking steps to comply with COPPA many of the new media companies including Facebook are choosing to avoid COPPA compliance by restricting their sites to over 13 s and foregoing a significant business opportunity in interacting with the under 13 market segment. Moreover it has become increasingly difficult to determine if a person is telling the truth when he or she enters their age or date of birth to gain access to a website. Thus a system is needed that will enable an online service provider to accurately determine the age of a user before the user is allowed to actually enter and use the site.

Accordingly the present invention is directed to a system and method for verifying the age of an internet user that substantially obviates one or more problems due to limitations and disadvantages of the related art.

An embodiment of the present invention provides a system and method for securely validating and notifying an online service provider of the age of a prospective online user.

Additional features and advantages of the invention will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be apparent from the description or may be learned by practice of the invention. The advantages of the invention will be realized and attained by the structure particularly pointed out in the written description and claims hereof as well as the appended drawings.

To achieve these and other advantages and in accordance with the purpose of the present invention as embodied and broadly described the system and method for verifying the age of an internet user includes a method of verifying the age of a prospective Internet user the method comprising establishing an age check account receiving information about a user the information including an alleged age of the user sending the information to be verified and receiving a notification that the information has been verified.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are exemplary and explanatory and are intended to provide further explanation of the invention as claimed.

Reference will now be made in detail to the embodiments of the present invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings.

In the following detailed description numerous non limiting specific details are set forth in order to assist in understanding the subject matter presented herein. It will be apparent however to one of ordinary skill in the art that various alternatives may be used without departing from the scope of the present invention and the subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. For example it will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the subject matter presented herein can be implemented by any type of user i.e. not limited to parent and child and on any type of standalone system or client server compatible system containing any type of client network server and database elements. Wherever possible like reference numbers will be used for like elements.

As shown in a local area network LAN comprises a server four computer systems and peripherals such as printers and other devices that may be shared by components on LAN . Computer systems may serve as clients for server and or as clients and or servers for each other and or for other components connected to LAN . Components on LAN are preferably connected together by cable media for example unshielded twisted pair UTP Category 5 copper cable and the network topology may be an Ethernet topology . It should be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that other media for example fiber optic or wireless radio frequency media may also connect LAN components. It should also be apparent that other network topologies such as Token Ring may be used.

Data may be transferred between components on LAN in packets i.e. blocks of data that are individually transmitted over LAN . Routers create an expanded network by connecting LAN to other computer networks such as the Internet other LANs or Wide Area Networks WAN . Routers are hardware devices that may include a conventional processor memory and separate I O interface for each network to which it connects. Hence components on the expanded network may share information and services with each other. In order for communications to occur between components of physically connected networks all components on the expanded network and router that connect them must adhere to a standard protocol. Computer networks connected to the Internet and to other networks typically use TCP IP Layering Model Protocol. It should be noted that other internetworking protocols may be used.

As shown in the TCP IP Layering Model includes an application layer Layer a transport layer Layer an Internet layer Layer a network interface layer Layer and a physical layer Layer . Application layer protocols specify how each software application connected to the network uses the network. Transport layer protocols specify how to ensure reliable transfer among complex protocols. Internet layer protocols specify the format of packets sent across the network as well as mechanisms used to forward packets from a computer through one or more routers to a final destination. Network interface layer protocols specify how to organize data into frames and how a computer transmits frames over the network. Physical layer protocols correspond to the basic network hardware. By using TCP IP Layering model protocols any component connected to the network can communicate with any other component connected directly or indirectly to one of the attached networks.

At step a user logs onto a service requester e.g. an Internet website or any other Internet based application that requires verification of the user s age. For example many social dating sites require that the user be over 18 years of age. Similarly many websites where purchases can be made require that the user be over 18 years of age or require parental consent before purchases can be made.

Next at step a service requester sends a request with user information to the age check system to verify whether a user is of sufficient age to view sign up or make purchases at a service requester. The age check system an account for which was previously created is activated through the service requester Internet website.

Service requesters may partner with the age check system by creating an account with the age check system. The account is created with data supplied by the service requester to the age check system. The data required to create an account may include the name address and contact information for the service requestor as well as information about the type of business that the service requester is engaged in. It may also include payment details and notification details.

At step the service requester requests that a user provide information regarding age address and other information that may be used by the service requester to ensure that a user may view sign up or make purchases at a service requester. Some of the information may be desired for use by the service requester and some of the information may be desired for use by the age check system. Accordingly the information may be used by the service requester for a variety of purposes and also may be sent to the age check system to verify a user s age.

The age check system may request many types of information including demographic information such as full name address quoted age form of government issued identification including passport or driving license number. The user inputs the information into a form provided by a service requester. Then the information is sent to the age check system at step . Thus all communication with a user is performed through the service requester such that the user is blind to the age check system.

At step the service requester may request that the age check system perform a manual check of a user s inputted information. As shown in if a manual check is requested the age check service performs a manual check which will be described later.

If no manual check is requested the age check system performs an automated checking process at step . The process includes checking a user s input information with information from partner sites. The age check system has secure access to third party sites that also acquire information from users regarding age address etc. The age check system may obtain the information from the various partner sites to verify that the same user is inputting the same age and address information and that all information can be validated as shown at step . If the information between the age check system and third party system match the user passes at step . Accordingly and the age check system recommends to a service requester that a user be allowed access to the service requester at step .

As discussed above the service requester may request that the age check system perform a manual check of the user s inputted information at step . A manual request may be made if the service requester prefers a more thorough age verification procedure that includes manual checks. If a manual check is requested the age check system may access public records that contain information about a prospective user to verify the age of a user at step . Such a manual check may be performed in compliance with COPPA state and country regulations.

At step the manual check verifies that the input information is accurate the user passes and the age check system recommends that the user be connected with the website at step . Alternatively if the information acquired by the age check system does not match the info illation input by the user the check fails at step and the age check service recommends to the service requester that the user be denied access to the website.

The age check system may aggregate all of the information that it obtains from a service requester partner website public record or any other source for further use. If the service requester requires that the validations be stored the age check system will store all information with a record of the user.

As shown in the age check system includes an age check server one or more user computers and one or more service requesters and one or more partner service requesters. The age check server may include a persistent software system and service that provides a rapid secure checking mechanism to determine and or validate a person s age before the person is allowed on a certain service requester. The age check system determines whether setup information that was supplied by a person is correct. The system provides an application programming interface API that exposes software functions that other websites web services and Internet enabled desktop applications can use to enforce age checks when a person attempts to create an online account and or gain access to an age sensitive website. A service requester such as a website web service Internet enabled desktop applications or any Internet based application may partner with the present age check system and a service requester account may be established with the age check system. Each of the user computers and may be a desktop computer laptop computer tablet or portable computer smartphone mobile phone or other portable computing device. Service requester may include any Internet based application such as a website web application or an Internet enabled desktop application etc. Similarly a partner service requester may include any Internet based application such as a website web application or an Internet enabled desktop application etc.

It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications and variations can be made in the system and method for verifying the age of an internet user of the present invention without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus it is intended that the present invention cover the modifications and variations of this invention provided they come within the scope of the appended claims and their equivalents.

