---

title: Quantification of responses received during medical triage
abstract: A method of determining a medical triage disposition for a person includes providing to a triage operator through a graphical user interface (GUI) of the computer: (i) a plurality of triage categories each including yes/no questions grouped into tiers that are ranked according to urgency and corresponding to a triage disposition; (ii) a selection of a relevant triage category based on a medical condition of the person; (iii) a quantification tool including follow-up questions related to symptoms, observations, and/or injury mechanisms, to enable the triage operator to quantify a level of severity of a symptom or injury related to yes/no questions of a subjective nature; wherein the triage operator determines a triage disposition for the person by providing triage to the person including: (i) asking, sequentially, the yes/no questions for the relevant triage category as displayed in the GUI; and (ii) asking follow-up questions from the quantification tool to determine whether a response to a yes/no question is properly considered “yes” or “no,” as stated in a response by the person.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08346573&OS=08346573&RS=08346573
owner: Medcor, Inc.
number: 08346573
owner_city: McHenry
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100517
---
This application claims the benefit of the filing date of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 985 850 filed Nov. 9 2004 and titled PROVIDING STANDARDIZED MEDICAL TRIAGE the entire contents of which are incorporated by reference herein.

A portion of the disclosure of this patent document contains material which is subject to copyright protection. The copyright owner has no objection to the facsimile reproduction by anyone of the patent document or the patent disclosure as it appears in the Patent and Trademark Office patent file or records but otherwise reserves all copyright rights whatsoever.

Originally medical triage was a process deployed during wartime or disasters by which a nurse or other medical professional personally performed an initial assessment of patients to group them into one of three categories those too ill to benefit from immediate medical care those well enough to survive without immediate care and those who could benefit from immediate care. In situations in which immediate medical care was a scarce resource triage methodology helped ensure that such care would be allocated rationally for maximum aggregate benefit.

In a broader sense medical triage is a process for sorting people with medical complaints into groups based on the likelihood of them benefiting from particular levels of medical treatment. For example most hospital emergency rooms utilize some kind of triage methodology to determine the priority in which patients receive care. The methodology can also include a decision making strategy for deciding whether a nurse is able to dispense an adequate level of care or a physician is required for a higher level of care. Much of this is done in person using medical assessments such as blood pressure pulse skin color and general observations of the patient to supplement what the patient describes about his or her condition. The staff then applies hospital triage rules based on that information to determine treatment priority and a level of care typically aiding those with the most serious conditions first.

Such medical triage systems exist to ensure that an appropriate level of care is dispensed to all individuals by evaluating the significance of their self reported or observed symptoms and matching them with a particular level of care. Accurate triaging means that the patient s medical concerns receive a suitable level of medical attention neither substantially more nor substantially less than what he or she needs.

Triage systems can also ensure that the dispensation of care is more economically efficient. In this age of ballooning medical costs a medical triage system can mean that whoever ultimately pays for the medical services e.g. government companies or individuals does not pay for an unnecessary level of treatment. For example if someone with a minor injury is accurately triaged an appropriate level of care can be determined while expensive services such as ambulance transport and emergency department care can be avoided if unnecessary.

Some triage systems are focused on controlling and limiting utilization of medical services i.e. gate keeping . These triage systems are operated by or paid for by insurance companies and or third party administrators responsible for general health care costs. The system guides callers to medical generalists rather than to more costly specialists except when a specialist is necessary. These systems will also direct referrals to in network i.e. discounted medical providers steering callers away from out of network i.e. non discounted providers.

The spread of telecommunications means that some types of medical triage can be employed by persons who are not on site with the patient. Advances in triage methods have enabled persons without extensive medical training to conduct some types of triage so long as they are trained in the triage methods. A common form of triage that is conducted telephonically and by non medical professionals with specialized training is that used by 911 Emergency Medical System EMS dispatching services. However these services generally operate under the assumption that some emergency medical response will be sent to all callers. The dispatcher typically determines the level of response e.g. whether basic or advanced life support is dispatched which ambulance or other responder is closest to the caller and which caller gets priority when there are multiple simultaneous calls . EMS dispatchers also provide pre arrival instructions guiding callers in simple life saving techniques to help stabilize patients until emergency personnel arrive.

Medical providers including clinic and hospital departments may also utilize a triage service for screening purposes. For example many expectant mothers and parents call obstetricians and pediatricians offices with a variety of medical complaints concerns and questions. A triage service can play a role in determining which patients need to see a physician and which do not. Many clinics use their own staff for this triage service but other clinics out source to call centers. Similarly many doctors offices clinics and hospital departments use call centers to answer their telephones on weekends and after business hours. In addition to handling scheduling and message services these call centers often use a level of triage to determine which calls warrant paging an on call doctor.

Most triage calls begin with a nurse recording the medical condition or injury as stated by the caller along with the caller s demographic information. This is followed by questioning by the nurse and a short health history. The nurse will assess the symptoms provide information on seeking care and improving symptoms and refer the caller to a physician if necessary. Documentation of the call can be the final part of the triage process.

Many of the existing services described above provide a triage service in which nurses apply a variation of the free form triage answering callers medical questions using the nurse s own expertise or general guidelines. While sample protocols risk factors and other information can be provided these systems do not establish a broadly applicable and consistent decision making process. Nurses are left to formulate their own questions and direct their own investigations. Even with general guidelines such a system can be rife with inconsistencies and other limitations. Each nurse can have his or her own particular predilections and can steer the inquiry in a direction not warranted by a fuller understanding of a particular patient s condition or optimal practices obtained by methodical study of prior triage cases. The nurse can miss critical points as a result of sloppiness or lack of knowledge and can as a result direct more treatment or less treatment than is appropriate. It can be impossible to ensure consistency and quality control with this kind of system.

A schematic overview of a platform for implementing a triage system of the invention is shown in . Elements used in supporting and implementing the triage system can be connected through a communications network including for example the Internet an intranet a local area network and or a wide area network. Additional elements not shown in can be included in such a platform. The triage system can also be implemented with fewer elements than shown in .

The triage system can address the medical inquiries of individuals in any context in which injury management and triage is desirable. Application of the triage system can help reduce utilization of expensive and often unnecessary appointments with physicians and emergency room visits. By eliminating unnecessary physician appointments and visits to the emergency room the system can also reduce unnecessary recordable injuries and unnecessary claims for Workers Compensation. The triage system can also help ensure prompt appropriate care thereby mitigating additional injury reducing an individual s time away from work and preventing permanent disabilities. There can be direct cost savings by directing an individual to a preferred treatment center where permitted by law in which care is more appropriate or better tailored to the individual s condition and in some cases less expensive. The system can also encourage those who are ordinarily reluctant to seek medical care to seek such care when they might benefit from it.

The triage system can include one or more triage centers in which one or more triage operators communicate with individuals e.g. a caller who have contacted the triage center with medical concerns or questions. The triage operator can be in contact with the caller through the communications network e.g. using telephones to allow for a remote triage investigation. The triage operator can work from anywhere he can connect to the communications network including from a triage unit which can be connected through the communications network to the triage center . The triage operator can also operate independently for example using a non networked PC.

In other cases however the triage can be implemented in part by a computer system using voice recognition to process the answers offered by the caller and or using voice generation to present the questions to the caller over the telephone or similar device. A computer system can also present the questions in written form to the caller as in an Internet Web page for example. The triage process can be implemented automatically using some of the above mentioned techniques.

The triage operator can be a physician surgeon medical resident physician assistant nurse practitioner registered nurse paramedic psychiatrist dentist pharmacist other medical professional or other person trained to implement the triage system. In some cases non medically trained people can implement the triage system if they are properly trained to implement the triage system. It can be more efficient to use registered nurses because they are often trained in general triage practices can have relevant and useful general medical knowledge and experience to place triage instances into context and because their services can be less expensive than those of physicians. Someone with credentials less than those of a registered nurse can be utilized as the triage operator although adequate supervision of lesser skilled triage operators may be desirable to ensure that the triage process is accurately implemented. Applicable laws and regulations in certain jurisdictions may require minimum licensure or credentials separate from what the triage system requires in order to provide medical advice or triage service in that jurisdiction.

The caller can be anyone who makes contact with the triage operator or computer system for the purposes of medical triage. The caller can be the injured or ailing person or anyone with medical questions. The caller can also be someone who is assisting the injured or ailing person especially in situations where the injured person is not able to call or communicate over the telephone. For example a supervisor can help an employee place such a call if the employee is partially incapacitated. A supervisor can also place the call on behalf of someone else when company policy so requires. For simplicity it can be assumed herein that the caller is the person with the medical issue or complaint.

The caller can use a telephone to call the triage center or triage unit such as by using a toll free e.g. 1 800 number. The caller can also use a mobile telephone satellite telephone walkie talkie computer via the Internet or other network email BLACKBERRY Waterloo Ontario facsimile machine two way pager or any other system for communicating from a remote location to the triage operator .

In some situations the triage system is provided to a client organization to serve its employees customers and or those at its facilities . A caller at the organization facilities can be an employee or customer of the client organization or can have no relation with the client other than being on its property. The client organization can also extend the application of its triage program to callers who are employees including those off site and or not on the job. Additional cost savings can result from improved productivity and morale as a result of the prompt medical attention available to an employee.

Employees can be more satisfied with the level of care and thus more likely to comply with self care instructions and can be less likely to initiate litigation against the client organization. Furthermore by shifting the medical decision making from the client organization to the triage system provider the risks inherent in medical decision making are shifted away from the client organization. A caller who is mobile can contact a triage operator from multiple locations. For example a long haul truck driver can have access to the triage system by contacting the triage center or triage unit though the communications network using any of the devices mentioned above. The position of the mobile caller can be determined with a tracking system such as the Global Positioning System GPS . This can assist in dispatching medical services to the mobile caller and or directing the mobile caller to a nearby treatment center . GPS software employed by the triage operator can help interpret and present GPS related data for the purpose of locating a mobile caller . For example the position of the mobile caller could be displayed on a display device so that the triage operator or computer system could help identify routes to a treatment center such as the nearest treatment center or direct an appropriate medical provider to the mobile caller .

A caller may require emergency assistance such as assistance provided by an Emergency Medical Service EMS . A call to the 911 call center can be made by the caller at the instruction of the triage operator if the triage disposition so warrants. The 911 call center can in turn dispatch an ambulance by contacting the EMS which will transport the caller to a treatment center .

Alternatively the situation may not require emergency attention. In that case the triage operator or caller can make an appointment for the caller to see a medical provider such as a physician physician s assistant nurse practitioner dentist nurse practitioner nurse or other medical professional at one of the treatment centers . Treatment centers include hospitals clinics or other locations where medical care can be dispensed. One or more treatment centers can be identified as a preferred treatment center based on the client specifications the proximity of the treatment center to the caller or client facility the known capabilities of the treatment center etc. However the system can comport with any applicable laws and regulations that govern or prohibit the restriction to or selection of preferred treatment centers. The triage operator or caller can first attempt to use or contact a preferred treatment center if that fails he can then attempt to use or contact another treatment center .

As shown in the triage operator can use a computer system to help implement the triage system. Alternatively the triage system can be implemented without computers such as with books. The computer system can be a client server system in which one or more computer clients send requests to a server and a server responds to requests from one or more computer clients . A computer client can be broadly construed to mean computer hardware that requests or receives the file and server can be broadly construed to be the computer hardware that provides or downloads the file. The computer system can include a personal computer PC laptop computer server workstation and the like running any one of a variety of operating systems.

The computer client can be any computer hardware such as a PC workstation hand held device electronic book personal digital assistant peripheral etc. The computer client can also be a software program running on a computer directly or indirectly connected or connectable in any known or later developed manner to any type of computer network such as the Internet. The software is also known as instructions stored on a computer readable storage medium for execution by the computer client . For example a representative computer client is a personal computer that is PENTIUM based Intel Santa Clara Calif. and includes an operating system such as MICROSOFT WINDOWS Microsoft Corp. Redmond Wash. . The computer client can also include a Web browser such as INTERNET EXPLORER Microsoft Corp. Redmond Wash. . A computer client can also be a notebook computer a handheld computing device e.g. a PDA an Internet appliance a telephone or any other such device connectable to the computer network or other communications network.

The server can be any computer hardware such as a computer platform an adjunct to a computer or platform or any component thereof such as a program that can respond to requests from a computer client . For example the server can be a PENTIUM based computer Intel Santa Clara Calif. running WINDOWS 2000 SERVER and executing MS SQL Microsoft Corp. Redmond Wash. or ORACLE Oracle Corp. Redwood Shores Calif. . The server can also include a display supporting a graphical user interface GUI for management and administration and an Application Programming Interface API that provides extensions to enable application developers to extend and or customize the core functionality thereof through additional software programs.

The triage system can be implemented using software running on the computer system . In addition the triage system can be implemented using a transmission medium such as one or more carrier wave signals transmitted between the computer system and another entity such as another computer system a server a wireless network etc. The triage system can also be implemented using an API or a user interface.

A block diagram of the computer system is shown in showing a number of different hardware components coupled by a data bus to allow communication therebetween. The components can communicate via hardwire or wireless connections. The computer systems embodying the triage system need not include every element shown in and equivalents to each of the elements are intended to be included within the spirit and scope of the triage system.

The central processor shown in can run software that assists in triaging the caller . The central processor can for example be used to process information entered by a triage operator into the computer system . The central processor can be any type of microprocessor such as a PENTIUM processor Intel Santa Clara Calif. .

A main memory unit can also be a part of the computer system Additional storage devices such as a fixed or hard disk drive unit a floppy disk drive unit a tape drive unit and or optical storage devices such as a CD Rom drive or a DVD drive can act as adjuncts and or alternatives to the main memory unit . The storage devices such as the DVD drive in addition to the main memory unit can be used for storing and access to recordings of the conversations between the caller and the triage operator medical and other data related to the caller triage related software and data used to execute the triage related software.

The network interface can be any type of a device card adapter or connector that provides the computer system with network access to a computer or other device such as a printer. In the triage system the network interface can enable the computer system to connect to a computer network such as the Internet or Ethernet. Software and data can also be loaded into the computer system via the network interface .

A display device can be used to display to the triage operator or others any information related to the triage system such as triage questions to ask of the caller . The display device can be any type of display such as a liquid crystal display LCD and the like capable of displaying in whole or in part the triage categories or other outputs generated by the computer system .

One or more input devices allow the triage operator to enter information into the computer system such as answers to triage questions. The input device can be any type of device capable of providing the inputs described herein such as keyboards numeric keypads touch screens pointing devices switches styluses scanners and light pens. An input output controller can support the input and output devices.

The user can be a triage operator capable of interacting with the computer system . The user can also be someone who inputs or accesses data or triage related information updates the software in the computer system or otherwise alters the computer system . The software is also known as instructions stored on a computer readable storage medium for execution by the computer system . The user can also be someone who mines the data in the computer system to generate reports such as call statistics injury reports and other reports. The user can include a client or representative thereof who can generate and or have instant and secure access to statistical reports on employee call characteristics incident rates and other parameters via the communications network .

The user can access the computer system through the Internet a remote server or a networked device through for example a server . Users may also access the computer system users using a wide area protocol WAP digitized voice signals interactive television signals electronic mail systems voice mail direct mail and various messaging systems including short message service SMS systems. The user may also interact directly with the back end . Access to the back end can also be provided via one or more carrier wave signals that are accessible to the user without requiring a server .

The back end can consist of various elements connected by a LAN. The elements of the back end can include a file server running WINDOWS 2000 SERVER a database server running MS SQL Microsoft Corp. Redmond Wash. or ORACLE Oracle Corp. Redwood Shores Calif. phone servers running a WINDOWS 2000 platform fax servers running a WINDOWS 2000 platform Microsoft Corp. Redmond Wash. an e mail server running MICROSOFT EXCHANGE and UNIX based e mail server running SENDMAIL Sendmail Inc. Emeryville Calif. for back up a web server running IIS Microsoft Corp. Redmond Wash. a reporting engine running CRYSTAL ENTERPRISE BusinessObjects San Jose Calif. and a NETSCREEN fire wall device Juniper Networks Sunnyvale Calif. . The system can run 128 bit encryption such as VERISIGN Verisign Inc. Mountain View Calif. to ensure system security. Other elements and software can be added to this back end . The software is also known as instructions stored on a computer readable storage medium for execution by the computer system . The back end can also be implemented with ACCESS Microsoft Corp. Redmond Wash. DEVELOPER 2000 Oracle Corp. Redwood Shores Calif. or other reporting tools including the replacements or successors to these applications.

The architecture of the back end can be a flexible design that includes real time database resident support permitting reporting capabilities that can take advantage of E mail WAP Voice based communication. As content is added to the back end e.g. in content databases the attributes of the content can be delivered to the user in near real time using for example a report generated in the data warehouse and presented to the user via the content presentation system . The back end can create queries to be provided to a user and can receive responses to the queries. The back end can also perform processing based at least in part on the queries and the responses along with information stored in its databases and lookup tables and helps determine the triage disposition.

The computer system can also include a business logic processing system not shown connected to the server to form a three tier computer system. The business logic processing system can receive queries or responses from the user . That information can be used to update the customer databases as well as retrieve data and information from both the customer databases and content databases . The business logic processing system can also provide inputs to and receive outputs from the data warehouse and communicate with any rules systems to apply one or more predetermined rules to the user queries. These functions can be accomplished in the absence of a discreet business logic processing system.

The data warehouse communicates with the customer databases and the content databases and other databases during the preparation of reports or triage related queries which can be provided to the user such as with an on screen display. The data warehouse can also organize and store data generated using the server and or a rules system. The databases can be for example SQL relational databases and or relational online analytical processing databases ROLAP .

The customer databases can include one or more databases for storing data provided by users and or derived from inputs by users including demographic information answers to triage related questions dispositions follow up data plans or other inputs from the users . The customer databases can have real time capabilities for support of the data warehouse . The MedfilesMOL database and the telephone system database described below can be components of the customer database .

The content databases can include one or more databases storing content that can be provided to a user during operation of the system. The content databases can include all of the information of the triage categories including the tiered triage questions and related information discussed below. The triage database described below may be a part of the content databases .

The content databases can include the tiered questions in addition to data that is scored in advance for one or more predetermined characteristics. This is also referred to as derived data. The scored data can for example be maintained as a set of one or more tables of scores. Certain quantitative or qualitative details about a medical condition can be assigned one or more scores based on severity. Derived data can be used in conjunction with look up tables to accept queries from the server and provide appropriate responses. For example a given amount of pain shortness of breath or extent of burns can be matched with a disposition through the lookup tables. Information in lookup tables can be more quickly and conveniently accessed in certain circumstances.

The telephone databases store and provide access to telephone numbers associated names and other telephone related data. The audio databases store digitized recordings of the calls.

The computer system can execute dynamic updates to the screen controls to change one or more properties without having to make coding changes and or redeploy the triage related software. Those properties can include position size backcolor forecolor border style field input length and tool tip text. The computer system can also execute dynamic updates regarding whether a field receives focus when a Tab key is pressed and or the order in which fields receive focus when the Tab key is pressed. These changes can be useful for refining the software to improve work flow and ease of use without having to reprogram the computer system .

In the above description of it should be understood that any portion of the functionality provided by the computer system could be provided by independent systems and or different groupings of systems than illustrated in .

As shown schematically in users of the triage system e.g. callers can contact a triage operator from a remote location. The caller can depending on the traffic to the triage center be placed in a telephone system queue step until a triage operator is available. The phone system can require the caller to indicate whether the call is for a new injury those calls are moved ahead of others in the queue who indicate that they are reporting old injuries. The triage center can be located anywhere a triage operator or computer employs the triage system.

The computer system I and software can work together to present the triage operator with information relevant to a caller s medical complaints prompt for specific questions related to the caller s symptoms and record the corresponding answers. The triage operator can employ the information and questions within those categories to determine which disposition i.e. timing and level of medical care best suits the caller as described in further detail below. The triage system does not necessarily diagnose the caller s medical condition although the triage system can be used in conjunction with a diagnosis system.

When the caller s turn has arrived a triage operator can answer the telephone and implement the triage system. All telephone conversations can be digitized and stored digitally on a hard drive and then transferred to DVD a call can also be stored on analog tape. The call recording and the triage operator s computer inputs can both have a running time stamp so that they can be linked and or synchronized to better enable one to understand the basis for the triage operator s decisions or the effectiveness of the triage questions when analyzed at a later date.

Upon receiving a call the triage operator can begin by finding and confirming the caller s location step so that the triage operator can dispatch medical services to the caller s location if necessary. The triage operator can also use the location information to determine if the caller is eligible for services step e.g. a pre existing client employed by a pre existing client a customer of a pre existing client or otherwise entitled to services. An exemplary computer screen layout shown in can be suitable for recording such information.

Services can be denied to a caller who is not eligible. If the caller is not eligible for services he will be notified step . However if it is apparent that the caller is in need of emergency medical attention the triage operator can instruct the caller to contact the EMS and provide interim self care instructions. If the triage operator wishes to contact the EMS on the caller s behalf it can be important to get an accurate description of the exact location of the caller and information on the appropriate EMS which the triage operator may not have in the database. Other demographic information such as the caller s social security number or name can be used to determine if the caller is eligible for triage services or has called before so that his medical records can be accessed if they exist.

The triage operator can establish whether or not the caller already exists in the triage system database step using personal data. If the caller does not exist in the database basic caller data are solicited by the triage operator and entered step via any appropriate devices such as a keypad mouse light pen touch screen scanner etc. The information can enable the system to follow up with the caller or allow triage reports to be generated as described below.

The caller may already be listed in the database. If so the caller s information is accessed. The exemplary computer screen layout shown in can be suitable for accessing such information. Once the caller data are entered step or accessed the triage operator determines if the call is a report call only step . A report call is a call in which no medical treatment is desired by the caller but merely establishes the caller s data for future contact and for more complete data records of injuries and reporting statistics for triage client organizations. For a report call intervening triage related steps are skipped step and the data collection process is initiated as described below. The call type can be selected using radio buttons as described in reference to below.

If the call is not a report only call then the process is continued step as shown in by determining if the call is a follow up call step . A follow up call is a call based on a medical condition that was previously addressed by the triage system. If it is a follow up call the system is set up as a follow up call step by accessing the data related to the original incident which can be associated with the caller s personal data. This can enable the follow up call data and the original incident data to be linked within the database and can help the triage operator understand the earlier incident or condition. A follow up caller can also contact the triage operator and directly commence follow up step .

If it is not a follow up call the call is set up as an original call step enabling an initial inquiry into the caller s condition and personal data. The caller s age can be collected in order to determine a suitable level of care for the caller . For example chest pains in a 65 year old can suggest a heart attack while they might not for an 18 year old. If a caller is identified as a minor a Pre Triage for Minors frame can become enabled as further described in reference to which can give the option of selecting a type of legal consent. Legal consent criteria can be required before the call can progress in order to prevent the unauthorized triage of minors. A parental consent form on file with the triage center over the phone consent from a parent or an agreement on file with the client organization can generally allow minors to make full use of the triage system. The triage system can however allow for Emergent 911 and Emergent triage of minors under the legal principle of implied consent. Triaging can be discontinued following the Emergent 911 or Emergent questions for minors as it can become harder to claim that implied consent applies to a less urgent situation. For particular clients the Pre Triage for Minors frame can be disabled.

Next the triage operator can select the relevant triage categories step . The categories can correspond to body parts and or injury types that can be the focus of the triage inquiry. The categories can be generally symptom based. Each category contains both tiered triage questions and related information. The tiered triage questions described below are related questions that can lead to one of a set of possible dispositions depending on the answers provided. An exemplary computer screen layout that allows selection of relevant categories is shown in .

The categories that relate to particular body parts can include abdominal injury abdominal pain without injury chest pain without injury chest injury dental injury upper extremity pain without injury upper extremity injury lower extremity pain without injury lower extremity injury eye injury eye chemical exposure red eye groin strain headache typical headache new onset atypical head injury low back injury with direct trauma low back injury without direct trauma low back pain without injury neck injury pregnancy shortness of breath etc.

The triage categories that are not necessarily related to a particular body part can include bites blood borne pathogen exposure burns electric shock frostbite general complaint heat illness insect bite or sting insecticide exposure open wound laceration psychiatric conditions stress rash etc.

As shown in the triage operator can ask the caller one or more questions about his complaints to ascertain the origin or cause of the caller s inquiry and allow the triage operator to select the relevant categories step . For example if the caller states that he fell off a ladder thereby bumping his head and cutting his arm the triage operator can select the head injury and laceration categories. Both the supporting information and tiered triage questions in those two categories laceration and head injury can be applied by the triage operator as further described below. If more than one relevant triage category is selected the categories can be prioritized step . They can be prioritized based on the description the caller provides or rules implemented by the triage operator . Such a rule can provide for example that the chest pain category always has a higher priority than the groin strain category.

Both the category selection and the body part selection can be accomplished in the exemplary screen layout displayed in where the body part e.g. foot neck hand torso body part location and e.g. left right lateral dorsal are selected using combo box fields and the category is selected from a list. When the Add button is selected the combination of category and body part are recorded and displayed in a window . The same category can be applied multiple times to different areas of the body by selecting the same category a second time while selecting different body parts. For example the laceration category can be applied to both the hand and the elbow as primary and secondary body parts. Likewise different categories can be applied to the same body part if for example there is both a burn and an open wound at the same place. When all or some of the categories and body parts are selected the triage operator can use the arrow buttons to prioritize the selections as shown in .

As shown in the information and questions within each of the relevant triage categories are applied to triage the caller s complaints step i.e. to determine a suitable triage disposition for the caller . The possible gradations of disposition can correspond to urgency as described below especially with respect to . shows that the triage operator determines either that a referral is required step as a result of the triage process step or not. Thus there are two basic dispositions shown in FIG. B requiring a referral and not requiring a referral. 

If the triage inquiry results in a referral the triage operator can search for and refer the caller to a preferred medical provider step including any preferred treatment centers. If there is no preferred medical provider designated by the client or if the preferred medical provider cannot adequately address the caller s medical condition the caller can be referred to any other suitable medical provider. Alternatively the caller can be presented with a list of treatment centers to choose from for referral or can be allowed to select his own referral clinic depending on the client policy and applicable laws and regulations. If the triage process does not result in a referral self care instructions step can be given to the caller. An exemplary screen format for displaying triage questions and enabling access to supporting information including self care instructions is shown in .

If the caller s condition allows the triage operator can collect more information step about the caller beyond that requested at the beginning of the call. This information can include demographic data incident criteria and other information. An exemplary computer screen format for entering this information is shown in .

The triage operator can also inquire into other data that is of special interest to the client organization i.e. the special client requirements step . For example the client can require that every caller with a back injury be asked if he or she was wearing a company supplied back belt at the time of injury. Other clients can require that every caller with a laceration be asked whether he or she was wearing safety gloves. An exemplary computer screen format for entering this information is shown in .

If there are no such client requirements or once special client requirements are collected step the data acquired during the triage process can be saved to a database step . The data can include the identification of the caller and triage operator cause of injury symptoms answers to questions triage disposition instructions given by the triage operator and the results from caller follow up in addition to other information discussed elsewhere.

The databases for saving the post triage data and the other acquired data include the MedfilesMOL database the triage database and the telephone system database . The triage database is used for storage and organization of the information obtained during a triage call and is implemented using an application interface which allows real time updating and modification of the database. The MedfilesMOL database is implemented using a post call processing software interface that allows the development and editing of the triage software as well as the investigation of particular call histories. The data in the three databases can be saved for long term storage in the data warehouse repository i.e. a data warehouse . Data warehouse users can access the data to prepare reports study aggregate caller data and study the long term efficacy of the triage system or elements thereof. The databases and the warehouse can have security features to prevent the unauthorized access to the confidential medical records or proprietary client information contained therein.

Once all of the selected information is saved to one or more of the databases step a report is generated and sent step to predetermined recipients. The recipients can include particular contact persons at the client or others as detailed below.

The system can present an opportunity to maintain the call record step . The client can have instructions not to save such information if so the call can be terminated at this point because the call can be considered complete. If there are instructions to maintain the call record then the records are saved step using the MedfilesMOL application . The MedfilesMOL application can be used to maintain demographic information details about the call and any incident or other information.

Application of the triage system can result in the selection of a particular disposition from a set of dispositions. A disposition is generally the action or actions to be taken by the triage operator or caller to resolve the caller s condition. A particular disposition within a disposition set can be identified by generalized indicia such as numbers or letters to express the selected level of care. For example a 1 disposition can indicate the most urgent level of care indicating to the triage operator that whatever actions are associated with the 1 level e.g. calling 911 should be executed. In the same disposition set a 5 disposition can indicate the least urgent level of care indicating to the triage operator that self care instructions for example should be communicated to the caller . When general indicia are employed the specific set of instructions associated with each of the indicia can be modified. Dispositions can also be expressed as the disposition instructions themselves e.g. call 911 see doctor within 24 hours etc . shows that the triage system can use a number of triage exemplary disposition sets with varying stratification and level of specificity. These disposition sets can account for differing levels of urgency from someone who needs immediate medical attention to someone who can treat himself.

If the medical condition of the caller is sufficiently serious one of the more urgent dispositions steps is assigned. The caller can be directed to a designated medical facility for further evaluation and or care step . Also a caller can be directed to an alternative medical provider if that designated or preferred medical provider is unavailable or cannot effectively address the caller s condition step . The client can specify reasons for which a medical provider is preferred and conditions suitable for overriding that preference consistent with applicable rules and regulations. For the six dispositions detailed in the client s claim manager can be contacted about the inquiry step and updated step as needed. The software can generate reports that are suited to updating the claim manager and others. The employee will ideally return to work step .

Alternatively the caller will be referred to a medical provider step . This can happen for any of the following dispositions Emergent 911 disposition step Emergent disposition step Urgent disposition step or Non Urgent disposition step as determined by the instructions associated with each of these dispositions. Care is then transferred to the off site provider step per the selected disposition.

The triage center can update the data warehouse and then notify the client organization of the particular injury and resolution steps . Work sites regional offices franchise offices division offices etc. can be the recipients of such a report or receive other communications regarding the injury or issue. Each of those levels can have a particular interest in safety human resources issues Workers Compensation issues or other relevant issues. Likewise a third party administrator insurance carrier insurance broker or other entity can be contacted when the client so requests step . Ultimately it is hoped that the employee returns to work step .

Within the triage system different triage categories are applied based on the caller s complaints. The triage categories aggregate different types of supporting information and germane inquiries that apply to the particular conditions targeted by the categories. shows a schematic representation of the various sections of an exemplary triage category Critical Considerations Clinical Frame Tiered Triage Questions Question Rationale Self care including an overview self care instructions prevention advice and follow up questions Frequently Asked Questions FAQ and General Information . An exemplary screen format for accessing these sections is described with regard to .

Any of these sections can be accessed at any time by opening up frames or can be automatically presented to the triage operator when a certain category is called up. For example one or more of the sections could open as a frame automatically as soon as a particular category is accessed while others are available at the option of the triage operator by selecting a button drop down menu or other selection modality. The categories do not necessarily have all of these sections and can have additional sections not listed here.

The Critical Considerations section generally guides the triage operator s questioning of the caller . The Critical Considerations section can be used to flag important information or safety concerns for consideration during application of the tiered triage questions and alert the triage operator to other important information related to the tiered triage questions . For example when the triage operator decides to apply the abdominal injury triage category the Critical Considerations window appears on screen before any questions are asked. The Critical Considerations can alert the triage operator to the fact that an abdominal injury can result in potentially life threatening conditions including the rupture of solid or hollow viscera and that an abdominal injury in a pregnant woman can result in uterine abruption or rupture. If this were not known by a triage operator he or she might incorrectly discount the level of danger that the caller faces. The software can automatically present the relevant Critical Consideration on screen when the category is selected or it can be presented upon selection of an icon on the computer screen.

A Clinical Frame section in a triage category can be accessed by the triage operator. Unlike the Critical Considerations section this section can be structured as a text box in which the triage operator can type a short description of the mechanism location and time of injury and any treatment attempted and corresponding results. A text box for entering the clinical frame is shown in . Alternatively this section can actively request information and such requests can be tailored to each triage category.

The Clinical Frame can be important in determining the severity of the complaint. Answers to the questions provided in this section can help define the context for the injury or condition and alert the triage operator to important issues as well as any other categories that ought to be applied in a given inquiry. For example symptoms resulting from a fall can be treated differently depending on whether the fall was from a 10 foot ladder or on level ground. A fall from a 10 foot ladder can alert the triage operator to an increased potential severity of the condition and add to the list of or cause the software to automatically access applicable triage categories and or dispositions.

One of the basic features of the triage category is the tiered triage questions which when applied can determine the disposition of the caller. The tiered triage questions are discussed below in reference to .

For each prompted question in the triage questions the triage operator can access the Question Rationale section. The Question Rationale section can help triage operators understand the process and provide guidance for real world situations that do not fit neatly into tiered triage questions . This section can also be helpful for triage operators who are in training or who are using a new triage category or a triage category with which they are not familiar.

The Self care section provides category specific self care instructions to the caller and a brief explanation of the condition including measures the caller might take to prevent a similar medical condition in the future. For example the self care instructions for the upper extremity injury category shown in include the administration of acetaminophen aspirin or ibuprofen that the affected area be elevated that ice and or heat be applied to the affected area and that work is modified to restrict lifting or forced grasp. This section can include a list of symptoms that can develop and for which follow up and reevaluation is necessary i.e. red flags . For example in the bite wounds triage category any sign of infection or loss of sensation can suggest that the caller should contact a medical provider immediately. The Self Care section can include general information about the category discharge instruction and a definition of all possible dispositions. This section can include both self care as the ultimate treatment and interim self care instructions which are applied in the time before a medical facility can be reached or other medical help arrives.

If the caller asks questions about his condition the triage operator can choose to answer the questions using his or her own knowledge. In some cases the triage operator can find it helpful to refer to a Frequently Asked Questions section of the triage category for a brief explanation of the medical condition and answers to common concerns. For example those being triaged for animal bite wounds often ask if HIV can be transmitted to them as a result the answer provided in the Frequently Asked Questions section is that animals do not transmit HIV.

The General Information section can contain additional information about the condition or information not suited for the other sections. For example hyperlinks to Internet sites Local Area Network or other data sources containing more detailed medical information can be put in this section.

As stated before the triage questions can be tiered. That is there are groups of questions in each tier and the tiers are ranked by urgency level. For each tier there is a corresponding disposition that is appropriate for the urgency level of the tier. An exemplary format of the tiered triage questions is shown in . Tiers are shown in . In this example the highest urgency tier is the Emergent 911 tier . Each of the tiers can have a corresponding disposition as shown in . An exemplary screen format for displaying the tiered triage questions and accepting answer inputs from the triage operator is shown in .

In the Emergent 911 tier for example there can be at least one yes no question. If any of the questions are answered yes then the corresponding disposition for that caller is the Emergent 911 disposition . The Emergent 911 disposition can include instructions for immediate referral to an ER by the local EMS and like some of the other dispositions can include condition specific interim care instructions. The Emergent 911 disposition can be modified to include other instructions. The Emergent 911 tier can be designed so that it can select those callers who need quick transport severe pain relief and or special emergency medical services such as cardiac monitoring and defibrillation capability. Emergent 911 is typically the highest urgency disposition. Interim care instructions can be provided for all categories when triaging results in an Emergent 911 disposition Emergent disposition Urgent disposition or Non Urgent disposition .

If all of the questions of the Emergent 911 tier are answered no then the triage operator moves to the Emergent tier . In the Emergent tier there can also be a number of questions for which any yes answer results in the corresponding Emergent disposition . An Emergent disposition can indicate that there should be an immediate referral to a medical provider but not by an EMS. However if all of the questions in the Emergent tier are answered no then the triage operator can move down to the Urgent tier .

If any of the Urgent tier questions are answered yes then the Urgent disposition is warranted. An Urgent disposition can require a referral to a medical provider on the day of the complaint or within 24 hours. If all of the answers to the Urgent tier questions are no then the triage operator should move to the Non Urgent tier . Any yes answers to any of the Non Urgent tier questions should result in the selection of the Non Urgent disposition which can require a referral to a medical provider within three days of the complaint.

In the example shown in if there is a yes answer for an Urgent tier question all remaining questions can still be asked of the caller including those in the Non Urgent or Self Care tiers. This can be in contrast to a yes answer for an Emergent tier or Emergent 911 tier question for which the entire triage process can be halted and the disposition immediately implemented. The cut off point in the triage process in which a disposition is selected but questions of a lesser urgency are still asked can be set at any particular tier.

The self care disposition can be automatically selected if all of the answers to the preceding triage questions are no. Thus no tiered triage questions are shown in this particular example and the self care disposition functions as a catch all for those who do not fit in the other tiers. Alternatively there may be triage questions in a self care tier in order to assist in customizing the self care instructions for the caller s condition or if there is a lower urgency tier among other reasons. This Self Care disposition can require self care that is distinguishable from interim self care discussed above. If there is an on site triage operator such as a nurse this nurse can help implement the Self Care disposition.

As shown in the triage questions from higher urgency tiers can be asked before those of lower urgency. Within the abdominal pain category for example the question about shortness of breath is in the Emergent 911 tier and precedes the question about blood in the urine which is in the Emergent tier. There can be any number of questions in each tier. Whether a yes or no answer is provided the triage operator can record comments made by the caller or the triage operator s observations or thoughts. In some situations the triage questions can be answered by the triage operator instead of the caller .

For consistency the triage system can be designed as shown in so that any yes answer to a question within a specific tier typically indicating the presence of particular symptoms results in the selection of the disposition that corresponds to that tier. This ensures consistency and prevents error. The software can present the triage questions as a list grouped according to tier and each having yes and no buttons. The selection of a yes answer using a button or drop down menu could immediately bring up a frame that contains the disposition information. However it is not necessary to require yes answers for selecting a disposition no answers and combinations of yes and no answers can result in the selection of a particular disposition. Similarly qualitative or quantitative information given by the caller can result in one of the possible dispositions such as with the quantification tool described below. Any question that does not lead to a disposition can be excluded from any of the triage questions.

The questions can be symptom based. That is the questions can relate to what the caller can sense. This can allow a quicker and more consistent disposition of the caller because it does not require an attempt at quantification or objectivity. This can also be a requirement for selection of suitable triage questions. However quantified details of the actual incident if there was one can also be used to determine a suitable disposition. The questions can also be history based that is addressing family history e.g. family history of heart disease social history e.g. whether or not the caller ever smoked and past history e.g. whether the caller has a history of heart disease .

One aspect of the triage system can include its flexibility. It can be beneficial to allow the triage operator to revisit any of the questions to review the answers or associated comments. The triage operator also has the ability to navigate between unanswered triage question groups within the same tier. Using a Triage Navigator screen the triage operator can jump directly to specific categories or specific tiers within the triage questions. The Triage Navigator can take the form of a drop down list or a pop up window with links to the other categories as shown in . The system can also utilize the responses to questions in other triage categories if the same question appears again later in another triage category. The system can also determine and consider the variation in responses to the same or similar questions that are asked more than once during the triage process and for example alert the triage operator to that fact.

The triage questions and categories can be drafted and organized so that they satisfy a particular set of rules or so that they have a particular set of characteristics including those rules and characteristics discussed above. Having the triage questions and or categories standardized in this way throughout the triage system can help streamline the triage process and make the triage process more predictable and or consistent for the triage operator and the caller thereby helping to ensure consistent results.

In an example of a set of rules reflected in the triage category of the triage questions and or categories are symptom based. The triage questions are organized according to urgency. Applying the triage questions results in one of five dispositions Emergent 911 Emergent Urgent Non Urgent or Self care corresponding to each of the tiers . Emergent 911 referrals may be based on a caller s need for speed of transport by an EMS pain relief and or special emergency medical services such as cardiac monitoring and defibrillation capability. Emergent referrals are immediate referrals to a medical provider when the user does not need the specialized services of EMS but requires an immediate evaluation. An urgent referral is a referral to a medical provider within about two days of the disposition being selected. A Non Urgent referral is a referral to a medical provider within several days of the disposition being selected. A Self care disposition includes providing self care instructions to the caller so that he can care for his illness or injury. Additional dispositions can be interim self care which relates to providing information before an eventual visit to a medical provider and report only which can be appropriate when there is no need for any level of medical care but the call is still reported. These dispositions are discussed further with reference to .

Further describing an exemplary set of rules the questions are answered yes or no and can be answered by the triage operator and are not necessarily the answers given by the caller . Any questions that are not yes no questions can be eliminated from the set of tiered triage questions. The rule set can require that yes answers always result in the selection of the corresponding disposition. The questions are tiered such that the first group of questions leads to an Emergent 911 disposition the second group of questions leads to an Emergent disposition and so on. For example the question about significant gross deformity which if positive leads to an Emergent 911 disposition precedes the question about swelling over joints which if positive leads to an Emergent disposition. One of the dispositions is selected when all of the triage questions are asked. Triage questions that do not add to the disposition are not included in the category . A clinical frame can be requested via a prompt as described above which can include information related to the time place and mechanism of injury.

Often for a given inquiry more than one category can apply. When dealing with multiple categories the software can facilitate the presentation of all relevant categories on screen including the tiered triage questions and supporting information. Additionally the software can prompt for answers to the highest urgency questions from all of the relevant categories before prompting for answers to the questions that are of a lower urgency. For example a user can call with symptoms that following a brief consultation are categorized as abdominal pain without injury and chest pain without injury. The software would ensure that all of the questions that result in an Emergent 911 disposition from both the abdominal pain without injury and chest pain without injury categories are answered before moving on to the questions that result in an Emergent disposition. Although it could be possible to ask all of the abdominal pain questions before moving on to the chest pain questions this may cause an unnecessary delay of a 911 call or other action if the subsequent triage of the chest pain resulted in a higher urgency disposition.

One way of applying two sets of triage questions simultaneously is presented in . This is termed a zigzag type alternation. In the zigzag type alternation the questions in the Emergent 911 tier from a first category are asked then the Emergent 911 questions from the second category are asked. Thereafter the questioning returns to the first category and the process is repeated at the next tier as shown in . Any yes answers for the Category 1 triage questions can result in a selection of a corresponding disposition. Likewise any yes answers for the Category 2 triage questions can result in a selection of a corresponding disposition. If no answers are given to all questions in the Emergent 911 and Emergent tiers then the questions of the remaining tiers in both categories can be asked without terminating the triage process at the first yes answer.

The zigzag type alternation depicted in can be better for asking triage questions of two different categories when it is established that one of the categories is more important of the two. However the scheme illustrated in can be superior in some cases because there is less switching between different subject matters thereby streamlining the flow of the conversation and minimizing the potential for either the caller or triage operator to become confused. However regardless of the type of alternation scheme applied the triage operator can decide which category to apply first this ordering can be more important in situations where there are more than two relevant categories and when the triage operator suspects that a particular category or categories are more likely to yield a more urgent disposition.

In the course of conducting a triage a triage operator can determine that an additional triage category is warranted. It is not uncommon to discover information about the injury and its cause that leads the triage operator to suspect additional perhaps more severe injuries. If the triage operator determines that an additional category is relevant the software allows him or her to apply the triage questions of that category at any time in the triage process.

For example a triage for a laceration can reveal that the laceration extended into the eye. Thus the eye injury category may need to be triaged along with the original laceration. Being able to immediately add the additional triage categories increases the likelihood that a more urgent disposition can be found sooner. Furthermore the higher priority questions of the after added category can be posed to the caller first before alternating between the two categories as shown in .

An example of a scheme for asking questions of after added triage categories is shown in . As shown the Emergent 911 and Emergent questions were asked of Category 1 and no answers were offered to all of the yes no questions in those two tiers. Then in the midst of the questions of the Urgent tier it was discovered that a second category applies so the triage operator can immediately skip to the Emergent 911 questions of that new category Category 2 . If all of the questions of the Emergent 911 tier are no then the triage operator continues to the Emergent tier questions . Again if all of the answers are no the Urgent tier questions can then be asked. At this point if the Urgent tier questions of Category 2 are all no then the triage operator can continue with whatever Urgent tier questions of Category 1 have not been answered. If the answers to the Urgent tier questions are no then the triage operator can alternate between the remaining triage tiers as shown above. This can help ensure that any of the more urgent dispositions can be identified first before alternating between the lower urgency tiers.

The triage system can collect and store caller data including all data acquired during the triage process. The data is stored so that it can be selectively accessed for the purposes of record keeping reporting and data mining. Standard software reporting tools such as BUSINESSOBJECTS 6.5 or subsequent versions BusinessObjects San Jose Calif. or the MedfilesMOL application described above can be used to access data that conform to any of a variety of parameters including dates locations individuals company corporate divisions job type age etc. The record keeping and reporting procedures can be customized to meet a client s specific needs including by having reports tailored to particular state and or industry requirements.

For example the MedfilesMOL application can assist in Occupational Safety Health Administration OSHA and state mandated record keeping. This can include generating First Report of Injury and OSHA log updates. The application can identify recordable incidents by comparing injury type and treatments to OSHA s recording criteria. The MedfilesMOL application then tracks recordable cases and automatically updates the OSHA log. The client can be given partial access to a database so that a current OSHA log can be printed or viewed at any time and at year end the OSHA A summary can be generated.

The triage system can also improve the client s claim process system by providing more timely accurate complete and consistent reporting of injury incidents. The system can also collect and manage information with which to investigate and or challenge defend against or settle such a claim.

Details about particular calls can be kept on file at the triage center or elsewhere for auditing purposes. The triage software can automatically generate short narrative reports about each call or caller these can be based on a pre formatted report template. Reports including narrative reports can be automatically faxed emailed or otherwise communicated to the client or any interested division or entity listed above.

Users can analyze the data to create reports study injury trends identify hazards and compare one facility or department with another or with industry benchmarks pre determined goals or projected outcomes. The data gathered can also contribute to the maintenance of complete and accurate company records accessible to authorized company personnel and or others. Other reports can be automatically generated and sent to a company s safety officer risk manager and or insurance carrier to trigger accident investigation and preventive measures. The database of the system can be securely accessible to designated client managers via the Internet or other means so that the client can have access to these reports and other reporting options on demand. An exemplary computer screen format for accomplishing these reporting functions is shown in .

Allowing the compilation and analysis of injury statistics can be helpful in situations where it is suspected that a small percentage of employees of a client can account for a large or disproportionate percentage of injury claims and costs. Users can monitor particular callers who use the triage system at higher rates and or are more accident prone. For example the triage system can be designed to notify a user when a certain caller has reached a predetermined threshold for use of the triage system or injury rate.

The user can mine the existing injury data to discover injury patterns or safety issues including locations job tasks supervisors or other criteria that may contribute to injuries. The system also allows users to set injury threshold rates or other parameters for automatic notification via the system. The parameters can include a date range site e.g. Store location e.g. the loading dock city and state call type caller gender triage category applied triage disposition referral and or treatment.

The user can analyze the data to identify preventive measures improve work safety rules and monitor compliance with work safety rules. For example user can assess whether any required safety equipment has an overall health or cost benefit. If the data reveal that wearing back belts has no effect on back injury rates or costs over time then client organizations can abandon the belts in favor of other preventative measures. Similarly a manager can measure the rate of compliance with the safety measures. Customizing and automating this process can further help loss prevention. The client can also monitor the performance of and cost savings of the client s injury management service and the triage system itself.

The triage related data can also be routinely mined to test the effectiveness of and fine tune the instructions or other information dispensed by the triage operator . Various statistical methods can help pinpoint potential areas for improvement. This can help ensure optimal evidence based care. For example if the follow up for all callers assigned to the Urgent disposition show unfavorable aggregate outcomes the Emergent tier questions could be edited so that the Emergent tier captures a greater proportion of callers or so that the questions better select those for whom that disposition is most appropriate. Triage questions and supporting information can be modified supplemented or removed. Such undesirable outcomes can include both adverse health related results of the applied disposition e.g. when care is inadequate and also when a level of care is excessive resulting in unneeded expenditures. Alternatively for example the Urgent disposition could be modified setting a smaller window of time in which to see a medical providers.

A threshold level of undesirable aggregate triage outcomes can be set. When the threshold level is exceeded a user can be alerted to modify the triage system to reduce the level of undesirable aggregate triage outcomes. Following any changes the triage related data can be again analyzed to determine the efficacy of any modification that was made to the system.

The triage system can be adapted to a client s specifications. The triage inquiry can be tailored to individual divisions location of the incident or job type. Likewise the triage system can be specially configured for a particular U.S. state call type patient gender category disposition referral impression and or treatment. To accomplish this the system can include exclude or modify certain triage questions provided to the caller or triage operator . Supporting information can also be included excluded or modified. The particular client variations are identified and accessed as the caller is identified. These variations can also be keyed to the place or business from which the caller is calling. The triage system can for example suppress any data from being collected.

In a triage center there can be triage operators answering the telephones and performing triage and in addition a manager who monitors the center. An additional feature of the triage system can be a Flag Review button which allows the triage operator to flag a call for review by a manager. The Flag Review button can be used to identify a problem with the caller or the way the triage category functions during the call. It can be used for immediate assistance or for identifying possible areas for long term improvements.

The triage system can allow for different types of system overrides. One kind of override is the 911 Override which allows the triage operator to immediately bypass the remaining triage process and call 911 or direct the caller or the caller s supervisor to call 911. If the triage operator feels the caller s condition has become dangerous and requires EMS dispatch clicking this button by passes triage and expedites the 911 referral. The 911 Override can be employed at any time in the triage process. The 911 Override can be accessed by a single button that is always present on the computer screen. The user can see a pop up screen requesting entry of a caller s name and a call back telephone number.

Another kind of override Triage Operator Override TO Override allows a triage operator the ability to immediately bypass the remaining triaging of a caller. This TO Override feature also allows the triage operator to automatically navigate to the Provider Search Referral screen at any point during the call flow. This allows the triage operator to use his own discretion and professional judgment to if desired substitute a disposition that he feels is more prudent than that provided by the triage system. While a computerized triage system provides a valuable framework for triage it is recognized that the software cannot anticipate the infinite number of variables and situations that a triage operator can face. The TO Override feature helps the triage operator address a situation in which he believes there is a more logical safe or appropriate response than what the software has indicated. TO Override can also be used when for example the triage disposition is Self care but the caller insists on a referral. Selection of the TO Override feature can prompt the display of the Provider Search i.e. Referral screen.

A system override can prompt the triage operator to provide the reason for the override and flag the call for manager review. The reason for the override can be indicated in an electronic record linked to the call record but can be excluded from reports to the client organizations or government agencies consistent with applicable laws and agreements with clients.

With some conditions it can be important to obtain from the caller quantitative details about the symptoms or cause of the ailment. Quantification tools supported by the software can be used by the triage operator to quantify symptoms. Quantification tools can deal with the extent of bleeding the amount of pain shortness of breath extent of burns time of a possible rabies infecting bite and tetanus status. A quantification tool can for example help the triage operator decide if bleeding can be considered severe bleeding. shows an exemplary quantification tool for determining whether a wound is deep or not. The triage operator can ask some of the questions within the quantification tool and thereby choose the proper yes no conclusion about the wound depth. An icon can appear to the left of any triage question involving one of these symptom patterns and can open a document with quantifying information to aid in answering the accompanying question. The information can assist in the selection of triage categories or selection of a disposition within a triage category. The quantification tools also provide standardization between the triage operators so triage results are consistent.

The time elapsed between an injury and the time the injured person contacts the triage operator can be a factor in the triage analysis. For example if a caller is concerned about the possibility of a broken bone a call immediately after the incident may not reveal some of the more important symptoms whether there is swelling or bruising for example. Therefore the system can alert the triage operator to the elapsed time and its relevance modify questions based on the elapsed time including eliminating questions that would not have relevance at a particular time and or automatically adding others have questions automatically answered in certain ways based on the time elapsed and indicate whether it is important for the caller to follow up at a later time. The elapsed time can otherwise be used to determine a disposition such as for example when the incident was so long ago that nothing more than self care is needed. The system can also make note of what time the event occurred in the caller s time zone which will then be adjusted for a correct calculation of the elapsed time. This information can become part of the recorded triage related data and stored in the database with the answers to the triage questions.

As described above the triage system can be implemented for a corporate client. Thus the caller if he is an employee can be asked to identify the company for which he works including the particular site or where he is located. The company can be selected using a combo box field and the site can be selected using another combo box field . As an alternative search fields can be filled out such as company zip code state city address and phone number . Once selected fields are entered the Search button can be selected to generate a list of matching companies in the company field . If one of the matching companies is the correct one it can be selected by double clicking or other selection method.

The caller can be asked if he is already in the database if he is the Existing Person Call button is selected and the information about the caller is accessed. Any number of search fields can be filled out to search for the relevant demographic data including last name first name social security number type of employee gender birth date and job status . The entire database can be searched by checking the appropriate box or the search can be restricted to a particular company by checking a different box . Once one or more fields are entered the triage operator can select the Search button which brings the various matching identities into the person field where the corresponding identity can be selected.

As shown in if the caller is not in the system the New Person Call button is selected and as a result the Create Person dialog box appears having text fields and combo box fields for entering demographic information such as birth date social security number gender etc. Once all of the information is entered the information can be saved by selecting the Save button at which point the Create Person dialog box disappears.

By selecting the Close button the next screen appears in which the relevant triage categories can be selected as shown in . While the text box can be used for any relevant information it can also be used to enter the answers that the caller provides for the introductory questions regarding the context or mechanism of injury which can be a first step in the selection of the relevant triage category. The initial questioning can also help determine if the call is an injury follow up or report only call which can be selected using the radio buttons . Toward the beginning of the call the triage operator can request the age of the caller . If a birthday entered in the age box indicates that the caller is a minor then the triage operator can select one of the legal consent categories described above in order to proceed. The system can prevent the triage operator from proceeding if there is no indication of consent although this feature can be disabled. An information bar is visible throughout the call indicating the name of the caller as well as the name and location of the company for which the caller works the reference number for the call and the call type.

The triage categories can be selected in category selection box of from the list of categories . To apply the chosen category the applicable information is selected using combo boxes corresponding to body parts body part location 1 and body part location 2 . The body part location combo boxes include such descriptors as dorsal lateral anterior posterior left right etc. Once these have been selected the Add button is selected which saves the selected combination in the relevant triage category list . This process can be repeated using different categories and or different body parts until there are no more relevant categories for the caller s particular condition. Using the arrows a plurality of categories can be ordered in terms of importance or other criteria. Selected categories can also be removed using the Remove button . Also the 911 Override button and the Triage Operator Override button can be selected throughout the triage process. Once the selection process is finished the triage operator can select the Continue button to move to the screen of .

The screen of starts the triage questioning based on the categories selected in the previous screen . The triage questioning starts with the questions in the highest urgency tier of the highest priority category which are identified by the question identification bar. The Triage Navigator shows which tier of questions is currently being asked and which tier of questions is next based on the tier list . When asking the triage questions the triage operator can access the quantification tool which displays a methodology for quantifying certain symptoms. The triage operator can also select the button to open a text box that allows the entry of additional information acquired from the caller in the course of answering a particular question.

As stated above the Critical Considerations section can be accessed throughout the triage process. In the screen shown in this section can be selected using the Critical Considerations button which opens a window containing the relevant information. Some additional features that can be available through the triage process are the Change Call Type button for alternating between a follow up call new call and report only call the DIC button for accessing self care instructions and FAQs the Triage Navigator button the General Information button and the Flag Review button which are all discussed above. Furthermore there are buttons for accessing a prior call menu accessing a list of outgoing follow up calls to be made printing the screen closing all screens and exiting the program . The Protocol Management i.e. Category Selection button allows the triage operator to return to the screen shown in to select additional categories or to change categories.

The triage screen of shows multiple triage categories being applied. In particular shows Open Wounds and Frostbite as indicated in the Triage Navigator . The Triage Navigator can be used to view any of the completed or active tiers in any of the selected categories. Because one of the questions has been given a yes answer the Disposition box shows the selected disposition and the Triage Navigator shows that the caller has been referred . Because the disposition is Emergent the triage status box shows that the triage process has been completed if however the selected disposition was of a less urgent nature the protocol status box may not show that the triage process has been completed until all of the triage questions in all tiers have been asked as described above. The Continue button can be selected to move to the next screen.

The screen shown in allows the triage operator to find an appropriate medical provider and offers a number of different search modes. For example the search can be restricted to designated medical facilities client specifications or can be expanded to all providers using a number of radio buttons . Alternatively any number of fields can be filled to search the provider database. The results of the search show up in a list . Details about the medical provider can be obtained by selecting the Open Prov button which opens a text window. The Referrals List button can be selected to obtain the referrals for a particular medical provider. Directions to a provider can be obtained by selecting the Get Directions button which can access a map or directions from any appropriate service or software such as MAPQUEST.COM. If a medical provider is not in the database the medical provider can be entered by selecting the New Provider button and entering the new provider fields .

Once a medical provider has been selected the Refer button is selected which opens the caller referral window shown in . The caller referral window summarizes the referral by providing the date of referral and other information. A button can also allow a map to the medical provider to be generated. A number of details about the nature of the referral can be selected these are indicated as Exceptions to an ordinary call and include such details as whether there was a self referral by the caller whether the caller requested an appointment refused a recommendation etc. The Exceptions also allows the referral information to be printed on the medical report.

Once the Save button is selected the information is saved in a record and the triage operator can select the Continue button to move to the next screen shown in . Further demographic information can be acquired such as personal information home address and employment data . The Continue button can be selected to move to the next screen shown in .

When a particular call is selected from the call list a summary of that call is displayed in the various fields of a screen shown in . When the Open button is selected a narrative description of the call is generated and displayed as shown in . The narrative description can be closed using the Close button and the next screen can be accessed using the Continue button .

The screen shown in allows additional demographic information to be entered including a Workers Compensation Claim Number family information employment information and contextual information relating to the incident itself including the task performed at the time of incident the objects or substances involved 960 the details about the occurrence of the injury and the supervisor s name . After this information is input the next screen shown in permits the recording of information specific to the employer of the caller such as compliance with particular safety procedures . Some of these special requirements can be printed and if printed will show up in a text box . Additional text can alert the triage operator to any other details particular to the caller s employer. When this information is entered the Continue button is selected to access the next screen .

The next screen shown in displays the details of the automated communications that will be sent on command including the destination the report name the recipient and the output format. The list of communications can be selected or deselected using check boxes . The method of the communication can include e mail and fax but all other communication methods described above can be employed. Once the selections are made the Send button is selected. In the final screen is shown. The Call Complete or Call Pending Information boxes can be checked after which the Finish button is selected to complete the call.

While various embodiments of the triage system have been described it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible within the scope of the triage system. Accordingly the triage system is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents.

