---

title: Enhanced fast reset in mobile wireless communication devices and associated methods
abstract: A mobile wireless communications device includes a user-visible peripheral, such as a display, and a processor. A reset management block is associated with the processor to manage reset of the device. The processor includes the use of an operating system (OS) which is resettable along with a reset of a state of the user-visible peripheral. The operating system is also resettable without resetting the state of the user-visible peripheral to avoid a user-visible change therein.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08832421&OS=08832421&RS=08832421
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 08832421
owner_city: Waterloo, Ontario
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20101019
---
This application is based upon prior filed provisional application Ser. No. 61 253 112 filed Oct. 20 2009 the entire subject matter of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present invention relates to the field of wireless communications and more particularly to mobile wireless communications devices and related methods.

Mobile communications devices including but not limited to cell phones have become an integral part of society over the last two decades. The typical mobile communications device may include many integrated circuits ICs therein for example a processor such as a central processing unit CPU a power management circuit and a graphics processing unit GPU driving a display for the device. These mobile devices may run software including operating systems virtual machines and various applications that perform desired tasks.

On occasion a mobile communication device may suffer a serious software error sometimes called a fatal software error which can be resolved by a reset operation. In early devices a user could typically accomplish this reset operation by removing the power supply i.e. a battery pull procedure. To avoid the inconvenience of the battery pull procedure some manufacturers provided a reset switch that provided similar functionality and other manufacturers made the reset function accessible via a software command.

A reset operation in which the entire system is reset is often called a hard reset operation or a full reset operation or a cold boot operation. Each of the ICs is supplied with power controlled by the power management circuit. When a full reset is performed in the device the power supplied to each of theses ICs is cycled off and on thereby resetting all the ICs. A reset operation in which the software or operating system is reset without the hardware being reset may be referred to as a partial reset or warm boot. 

It will be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration where considered appropriate reference numerals may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements. Further prime and multiple prime notation has been used to denote similar elements in other embodiments. In addition numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the example embodiments described herein. However it will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that the example embodiments described herein may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures and components have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the example embodiments described herein. Also the description is not to be considered as limiting the scope of the example embodiments described herein.

Generally speaking a mobile wireless communications device also referred to herein as a mobile device may include wireless communications circuitry at least one user visible peripheral and at least one memory. A processor may cooperate with the wireless communications circuitry at least user visible peripheral and the at least one memory in accordance with an operating system OS . In addition a reset management block may be configured to cooperate with the processor so that the OS is resettable without resetting a state of the at least one user visible peripheral to thereby avoid a user visible change in the at least one user visible peripheral. This may usefully allow the OS to reset without alerting the user as such an OS reset may confuse the user increasing the user s satisfaction with the mobile wireless communications device.

In some applications the at least one memory may include a non volatile memory and the processor may also be configured to run at least one application via a virtual machine. The reset management block may be configured to notify the virtual machine of a reset of the OS and direct temporary storage of application data associated with the at least one application in the non volatile memory. In addition the reset management block may be configured to maintain device power until completion of the temporary storage of application data.

The at least one application may be a plurality of applications. Further the at least one memory may be a volatile memory the reset management block may be configured to transfer the application data from the non volatile memory to the volatile memory after the reset of the OS.

The at least one application may include an electronic mail e mail client and the at least one user visible peripheral may include a display. The at least one user visible peripheral may include a keyboard and at least one light associated therewith. Additionally or alternatively the at least one user visible peripheral may includes a pointing device and at least one light associated therewith.

The mobile wireless communications device may include a power source and the processor may be configured to maintain power to the at least one user visible peripheral during a reset. In addition there may be a clock signal generator configured to generate a clock signal and the processor may be configured to maintain the clock signal to the at least one user visible peripheral during a reset.

A method aspect is directed to a method of operating a mobile wireless communications device including wireless communications circuitry at least one user visible peripheral at least one memory and a processor cooperating with the wireless communications circuitry at least user visible peripheral and the at least one memory in accordance with an operating system OS . The method may include configuring a reset management block coupled to the processor such that the OS is resettable without resetting a state of the at least one user visible peripheral to thereby avoid a user visible change in the at least one user visible peripheral.

The example embodiments described herein generally relate to a mobile wireless communication device hereafter referred to as a mobile device which can be configured according to an IT policy. It should be noted that the term IT policy in general refers to a collection of IT policy rules in which the IT policy rules can be defined as being either grouped or non grouped and global or per user. The terms grouped non grouped global and per user are defined further below. Examples of applicable communication devices include pagers cellular phones cellular smart phones wireless organizers personal digital assistants computers laptops handheld wireless communication devices wirelessly enabled notebook computers and the like.

The mobile device is a two way communication device with advanced data communication capabilities including the capability to communicate with other mobile devices or computer systems through a network of transceiver stations. The mobile device may also have the capability to allow voice communication. Depending on the functionality provided by the mobile device it may be referred to as a data messaging device a two way pager a cellular telephone with data messaging capabilities a wireless Internet appliance or a data communication device with or without telephony capabilities . To aid the reader in understanding the structure of the mobile device and how it communicates with other devices and host systems reference will now be made to .

Referring first to shown therein is a block diagram of an example embodiment mobile device which may be used in example embodiments disclosed herein. The mobile device includes a number of components such as a main processor that controls the overall operation of the mobile device . Communication functions including data and voice communications are performed through a communication subsystem . The communication subsystem receives messages from and sends messages to a wireless network . In this example embodiment of the mobile device the communication subsystem is configured in accordance with the Global System for Mobile Communication GSM and General Packet Radio Services CPRS standards. The GSM GPRS wireless network is used worldwide and it is expected that these standards will be superseded eventually by Enhanced Data GSM Environment EDGE and Universal Mobile Telecommunications Service UMTS . New standards are still being defined but it is believed that they will have similarities to the network behavior described herein and it will also be understood by persons skilled in the art that the example embodiments described herein are intended to use any other suitable standards that are developed in the future. The wireless link connecting the communication subsystem with the wireless network represents one or more different Radio Frequency RF channels operating according to defined protocols specified for GSM GPRS communications. With newer network protocols these channels are capable of supporting both circuit switched voice communications and packet switched data communications.

Although the wireless network associated with mobile device is a GSM GPRS wireless network in one example implementation other wireless networks may also be associated with the mobile device in variant implementations. The different types of wireless networks that may be employed include for example data centric wireless networks voice centric wireless networks and dual mode networks that can support both voice and data communications over the same physical base stations. Combined dual mode networks include but are not limited to Code Division Multiple Access CDMA or CDMA2000 networks GSM GPRS networks as mentioned above and future third generation 3G networks like EDGE and UMTS. Some other examples of data centric networks include WiFi 802.11 Mobitex and DataTAC network communication systems. Examples of other voice centric data networks include Personal Communication Systems PCS networks like GSM and Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems.

The main processor also interacts with additional subsystems such as a Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory a display an auxiliary input output I O subsystem a data port a keyboard a speaker a microphone short range communications and other device subsystems .

Some of the subsystems of the mobile device perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions. By way of example the display and the keyboard may be used for both communication related functions such as entering a text message for transmission over the network and device resident functions such as a calculator or task list.

The mobile device can send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Network access is associated with a subscriber or user of the mobile device . To identify a subscriber the mobile device requires a SIM RUIN card i.e. Subscriber Identity Module or a Removable User Identity Module to be inserted into a SIM RUIN interface in order to communicate with a network. The SIM card or RUIM is one type of a conventional smart card that can be used to identify a subscriber of the mobile device and to personalize the mobile device among other things. Without the SIM card the mobile device is not fully operational for communication with the wireless network . By inserting the SIM card RUIM into the SIM RUIM interface a subscriber can access all subscribed services. Services may include web browsing and messaging such as e mail voice mail Short Message Service SMS and Multimedia Messaging Services MMS . More advanced services may include point of sale field service and sales force automation. The SIM card RUIM includes a processor and memory for storing information. Once the SIM card RUIM is inserted into the SIM RUIM interface it is coupled to the main processor .

To identify the subscriber the SIM card RUIM can include some user parameters such as an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI . An advantage of using the SIM card RUIM is that a subscriber is not necessarily bound by any single physical mobile device. The SIM card RUIM may store additional subscriber information for a mobile device as well including datebook or calendar information and recent call information. Alternatively user identification information can also be programmed into the flash memory .

The mobile device is a battery powered device and includes a battery interface for receiving one or more rechargeable batteries . In at least some embodiments the battery can be a smart battery with an embedded microprocessor. The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which assists the battery in providing power V to the mobile device . Although current technology makes use of a battery future technologies such as micro fuel cells may provide the power to the mobile device .

The mobile device also includes an operating system and software components to which are described in more detail below. The operating system and the software components to that are executed by the main processor are typically stored in a persistent store such as the flash memory which may alternatively be a read only memory ROM or similar storage element not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that portions of the operating system and the software components to such as specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as the RAM . Other software components can also be included as is well known to those skilled in the art.

The subset of software applications that control basic device operations including data and voice communication applications will normally be installed on the mobile device during its manufacture. Other software applications include a message application that can be any suitable software program that allows a user of the mobile device to send and receive electronic messages. Various alternatives exist for the message application as is well known to those skilled in the art. Messages that have been sent or received by the user are typically stored in the flash memory of the mobile device or some other suitable storage element in the mobile device . In at least some embodiments some of the sent and received messages may be stored remotely from the device such as in a data store of an associated host system that the mobile device communicates with.

The software applications can further include a device state module a Personal Information Manager PIM and other suitable modules not shown . The device state module provides persistence i.e. the device state module ensures that important device data is stored in persistent memory such as the flash memory so that the data is not lost when the mobile device is turned off or loses power.

The PIM includes functionality for organizing and managing data items of interest to the user such as but not limited to e mail contacts calendar events voice mails appointments and task items. A PIM application has the ability to send and receive data items via the wireless network . PIM data items may be seamlessly integrated synchronized and updated via the wireless network with the mobile device subscriber s corresponding data items stored and or associated with a host computer system. This functionality creates a mirrored host computer on the mobile device with respect to such items. This can be particularly advantageous when the host computer system is the mobile device subscriber s office computer system.

The mobile device also includes a connect module and an IT policy module . The connect module implements the communication protocols that are required for the mobile device to communicate with the wireless infrastructure and any host system such as an enterprise system that the mobile device is authorized to interface with. Examples of a wireless infrastructure and an enterprise system are given in which are described in more detail below.

The connect module includes a set of application programming interfaces APIs that can be integrated with the mobile device to allow the mobile device to use any number of services associated with the enterprise system. The connect module allows the mobile device to establish an end to end secure authenticated communication pipe with the host system. A subset of applications for which access is provided by the connect module can be used to pass IT policy commands from the host system to the mobile device . This can be done in a wireless or wired manner. These instructions can then be passed to the IT policy module to modify the configuration of the device . Alternatively in some cases the IT policy update can also be done over a wired connection.

The IT policy module receives IT policy data that encodes the IT policy. The IT policy module then ensures that the IT policy data is authenticated by the mobile device . The IT policy data can then be stored in the flash memory in its native form. After the IT policy data is stored a global notification can be sent by the IT policy module to all of the applications residing on the mobile device . Applications for which the IT policy may be applicable then respond by reading the IT policy data to look for IT policy rules that are applicable.

The IT policy module can include a parser not shown which can be used by the applications to read the IT policy rules. In some cases another module or application can provide the parser. Grouped IT policy rules described in more detail below are retrieved as byte streams which are then sent recursively in a sense into the parser to determine the values of each IT policy rule defined within the grouped IT policy rule. In at least some embodiments the IT policy module can determine which applications are affected by the IT policy data and send a notification to only those applications. In either of these cases for applications that aren t running at the time of the notification the applications can call the parser or the IT policy module when they are executed to determine if there are any relevant IT policy rules in the newly received IT policy data.

All applications that support rules in the IT Policy are coded to know the type of data to expect. For example the value that is set for the WEP User Name IT policy rule is known to be a string therefore the value in the IT policy data that corresponds to this rule is interpreted as a string. As another example the setting for the Set Maximum Password Attempts IT policy rule is known to be an integer and therefore the value in the IT policy data that corresponds to this rule is interpreted as such.

After the IT policy rules have been applied to the applicable applications or configuration files the IT policy module sends an acknowledgement back to the host system to indicate that the IT policy data was received and successfully applied.

Other types of software applications can also be installed on the mobile device . These software applications can be third party applications which are added after the manufacture of the mobile device . Examples of third party applications include games calculators utilities etc.

The additional applications can be loaded onto the mobile device through at least one of the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the short range communications subsystem or any other suitable device subsystem . This flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the mobile device and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications may enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using the mobile device .

The data port enables a subscriber to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the mobile device by providing for information or software downloads to the mobile device other than through a wireless communication network. The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the mobile device through a direct and thus reliable and trusted connection to provide secure device communication.

The data port can be any suitable port that enables data communication between the mobile device and another computing device. The data port can be a serial or a parallel port. In some instances the data port can be a USB port that includes data lines for data transfer and a supply line that can provide a charging current to charge the battery of the mobile device .

The short range communications subsystem provides for communication between the mobile device and different systems or devices without the use of the wireless network . For example the subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components for short range communication. Examples of short range communication standards include standards developed by the Infrared Data Association IrDA Bluetooth and the 802.11 family of standards developed by IEEE.

In use a received signal such as a text message an e mail message or web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the main processor . The main processor will then process the received signal for output to the display or alternatively to the auxiliary I O subsystem . A subscriber may also compose data items such as e mail messages for example using the keyboard in conjunction with the display and possibly the auxiliary I O subsystem . The auxiliary subsystem may include devices such as a touch screen mouse track ball infrared fingerprint detector or a roller wheel with dynamic button pressing capability. The keyboard is preferably an alphanumeric keyboard and or telephone type keypad. However other types of keyboards may also be used. A composed item may be transmitted over the wireless network through the communication subsystem .

For voice communications the overall operation of the mobile device is substantially similar except that the received signals are output to the speaker and signals for transmission are generated by the microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem can also be implemented on the mobile device . Although voice or audio signal output is accomplished primarily through the speaker the display can also be used to provide additional information such as the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

Referring now to an example block diagram of the communication subsystem component is shown. The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter as well as associated components such as one or more embedded or internal antenna elements and Local Oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a Digital Signal Processor DSP . The particular design of the communication subsystem is dependent upon the communication network with which the mobile device is intended to operate. Thus it should be understood that the design illustrated in serves only as one example.

Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection and analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are input to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission over the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but also provides for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

The wireless link between the mobile device and the wireless network can contain one or more different channels typically different RF channels and associated protocols used between the mobile device and the wireless network . An RF channel is a limited resource that must be conserved typically due to limits in overall bandwidth and limited battery power of the mobile device .

When the mobile device is fully operational the transmitter is typically keyed or turned on only when it is transmitting to the wireless network and is otherwise turned off to conserve resources. Similarly the receiver is periodically turned off to conserve power until it is needed to receive signals or information if at all during designated time periods.

Referring now to a block diagram of an example implementation of a node of the wireless network is shown. In practice the wireless network includes one or more nodes . In conjunction with the connect module the mobile device can communicate with the node within the wireless network . In the example implementation of the node is configured in accordance with General Packet Radio Service GPRS and Global Systems for Mobile GSM technologies. The node includes a base station controller BSC with an associated tower station a Packet Control Unit PCU added for GPRS support in GSM a Mobile Switching Center MSC a Home Location Register HLR a Visitor Location Registry VLR a Serving GPRS Support Node SGSN a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN and a Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol DHCP . This list of components is not meant to be an exhaustive list of the components of every node within a GSM GPRS network but rather a list of components that are commonly used in communications through the network .

In a GSM network the MSC is coupled to the BSC and to a landline network such as a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN to satisfy circuit switched requirements. The connection through the PCU the SGSN and the GGSN to a public or private network Internet also referred to herein generally as a shared network infrastructure represents the data path for GPRS capable mobile devices. In a GSM network extended with GPRS capabilities the BSC also contains the Packet Control Unit PCU that connects to the SGSN to control segmentation radio channel allocation and to satisfy packet switched requirements. To track the location of the mobile device and availability for both circuit switched and packet switched management the HLR is shared between the MSC and the SGSN . Access to the VLR is controlled by the MSC .

The station is a fixed transceiver station and together with the BSC form fixed transceiver equipment. The fixed transceiver equipment provides wireless network coverage for a particular coverage area commonly referred to as a cell . The fixed transceiver equipment transmits communication signals to and receives communication signals from mobile devices within its cell via the station . The fixed transceiver equipment normally performs such functions as modulation and possibly encoding and or encryption of signals to be transmitted to the mobile device in accordance with particular usually predetermined communication protocols and parameters under control of its controller. The fixed transceiver equipment similarly demodulates and possibly decodes and decrypts if necessary any communication signals received from the mobile device within its cell. Communication protocols and parameters may vary between different nodes. For example one node may employ a different modulation scheme and operate at different frequencies than other nodes.

For all mobile devices registered with a specific network permanent configuration data such as a user profile is stored in the HLR . The HLR also contains location information for each registered mobile device and can be queried to determine the current location of a mobile device. The MSC is responsible for a group of location areas and stores the data of the mobile devices currently in its area of responsibility in the VLR . Further the VLR also contains information on mobile devices that are visiting other networks. The information in the VLR includes part of the permanent mobile device data transmitted from the HLR to the VLR for faster access. By moving additional information from a remote HLR node to the VLR the amount of traffic between these nodes can be reduced so that voice and data services can be provided with faster response times and at the same time requiring less use of computing resources.

The SGSN and the GGSN are elements added for GPRS support namely packet switched data support within GSM. The SGSN and the MSC have similar responsibilities within the wireless network by keeping track of the location of each mobile device . The SGSN also performs security functions and access control for data traffic on the wireless network . The GGSN provides internetworking connections with external packet switched networks and connects to one or more SGSN s via an Internet Protocol IP backbone network operated within the network . During normal operations a given mobile device must perform a GPRS Attach to acquire an IP address and to access data services. This requirement is not present in circuit switched voice channels as Integrated Services Digital Network ISDN addresses are used for routing incoming and outgoing calls. Currently all GPRS capable networks use private dynamically assigned IP addresses thus requiring the DHCP server connected to the GGSN . There are many mechanisms for dynamic IP assignment including using a combination of a Remote Authentication Dial In User Service RADIUS server and a DHCP server. Once the GPRS Attach is complete a logical connection is established from a mobile device through the PCU and the SGSN to an Access Point Node APN within the GGSN . The APN represents a logical end of an IP tunnel that can either access direct Internet compatible services or private network connections. The APN also represents a security mechanism for the network insofar as each mobile device must be assigned to one or more APNs and mobile devices cannot exchange data without first performing a GPRS Attach to an APN that it has been authorized to use. The APN may be considered to be similar to an Internet domain name such as myconnection.wireless.com .

Once the GPRS Attach operation is complete a tunnel is created and all traffic is exchanged within standard IP packets using any protocol that can be supported in IP packets. This includes tunneling methods such as IP over IP as in the case with some IPSecurity IPsec connections used with Virtual Private Networks VPN . These tunnels are also referred to as Packet Data Protocol PDP Contexts and there are a limited number of these available in the network . To maximize use of the PDP Contexts the network will run an idle timer for each PDP Context to determine if there is a lack of activity. When a mobile device is not using its POP Context the PDP Context can be de allocated and the IP address returned to the IP address pool managed by the DHCP server .

Referring now to shown therein is a block diagram illustrating components of an example configuration of a host system that the mobile device can communicate with in conjunction with the connect module . The host system will typically be a corporate enterprise or other local area network LAN but may also be a home office computer or some other private system for example in variant implementations. In this example shown in the host system is depicted as a LAN of an organization to which a user of the mobile device belongs. Typically a plurality of mobile devices can communicate wirelessly with the host system through one or more nodes of the wireless network .

The host system includes a number of network components connected to each other by a network . For instance a user s desktop computer with an accompanying cradle for the user s mobile device is situated on a LAN connection. The cradle for the mobile device can be coupled to the computer by a serial or a Universal Serial Bus USB connection for example. Other user computers are also situated on the network and each may or may not be equipped with an accompanying cradle . The cradle facilitates the loading of information e.g. PIM data private symmetric encryption keys to facilitate secure communications from the user computer to the mobile device and may be particularly useful for bulk information updates often performed in initializing the mobile device for use. The information downloaded to the mobile device may include certificates used in the exchange of messages.

It will be understood by persons skilled in the art that the user computers will typically also be connected to other peripheral devices such as printers etc. which are not explicitly shown in . Furthermore only a subset of network components of the host system are shown in for ease of exposition and it will be understood by persons skilled in the art that the host system will include additional components that are not explicitly shown in for this example configuration. More generally the host system may represent a smaller part of a larger network not shown of the organization and may include different components and or be arranged in different topologies than that shown in the example embodiment of .

To facilitate the operation of the mobile device and the wireless communication of messages and message related data between the mobile device and components of the host system a number of wireless communication support components can be provided. In some implementations the wireless communication support components can include a message management server a mobile data server a contact server and a device manager module . The device manager module includes an IT Policy editor and an IT user property editor as well as other software components for allowing an IT administrator to configure the mobile devices . In an alternative embodiment there may be one editor that provides the functionality of both the IT policy editor and the IT user property editor . The support components also include a data store and an IT policy server . The IT policy server includes a processor a network interface and a memory unit . The processor controls the operation of the IT policy server and executes functions related to the standardized IT policy as described below. The network interface allows the IT policy server to communicate with the various components of the host system and the mobile devices . The memory unit can store functions used in implementing the IT policy as well as related data. Those skilled in the art know how to implement these various components. Other components may also be included as is well known to those skilled in the art. Further in some implementations the data store can be part of any one of the servers.

In this example embodiment the mobile device communicates with the host system through node of the wireless network and a shared network infrastructure such as a service provider network or the public Internet. Access to the host system may be provided through one or more routers not shown and computing devices of the host system may operate from behind a firewall or proxy server . The proxy server provides a secure node and a wireless internet gateway for the host system . The proxy server intelligently routes data to the correct destination server within the host system .

In some implementations the host system can include a wireless VPN router not shown to facilitate data exchange between the host system and the mobile device . The wireless VPN router allows a VPN connection to be established directly through a specific wireless network to the mobile device . The wireless VPN router can be used with the Internet Protocol IP Version 6 IPV6 and IP based wireless networks. This protocol can provide enough IP addresses so that each mobile device has a dedicated IP address making it possible to push information to a mobile device at any time. An advantage of using a wireless VPN router is that it can be an off the shelf VPN component and does not require a separate wireless gateway and separate wireless infrastructure. A VPN connection can preferably be a Transmission Control Protocol TCP IP or User Datagram Protocol UDP IP connection for delivering the messages directly to the mobile device in this alternative implementation.

Messages intended for a user of the mobile device are initially received by a message server of the host system . Such messages may originate from any number of sources. For instance a message may have been sent by a sender from the computer within the host system from a different mobile device not shown connected to the wireless network or a different wireless network or from a different computing device or other device capable of sending messages via the shared network infrastructure possibly through an application service provider ASP or Internet service provider ISP for example.

The message server typically acts as the primary interface for the exchange of messages particularly e mail messages within the organization and over the shared network infrastructure . Each user in the organization that has been set up to send and receive messages is typically associated with a user account managed by the message server . Some example implementations of the message server include a Microsoft Exchange server a Lotus Domino server a Novell Groupwise server or another suitable mail server installed in a corporate environment. In some implementations the host system may include multiple message servers . The message server may also be adapted to provide additional functions beyond message management including the management of data associated with calendars and task lists for example.

When messages are received by the message server they are typically stored in a data store associated with the message server . In at least some embodiments the data store may be a separate hardware unit such as data store that the message server communicates with. Messages can be subsequently retrieved and delivered to users by accessing the message server . For instance an e mail client application operating on a user s computer may request the e mail messages associated with that user s account stored on the data store associated with the message server . These messages are then retrieved from the data store and stored locally on the computer . The data store associated with the message server can store copies of each message that is locally stored on the mobile device . Alternatively the data store associated with the message server can store all of the messages for the user of the mobile device and only a smaller number of messages can be stored on the mobile device to conserve memory. For instance the most recent messages i.e. those received in the past two to three months for example can be stored on the mobile device .

When operating the mobile device the user may wish to have e mail messages retrieved for delivery to the mobile device . The message application operating on the mobile device may also request messages associated with the user s account from the message server . The message application may be configured either by the user or by an administrator possibly in accordance with an organization s information technology IT policy to make this request at the direction of the user at some pre defined time interval or upon the occurrence of some pre defined event. In some implementations the mobile device is assigned its own e mail address and messages addressed specifically to the mobile device are automatically redirected to the mobile device as they are received by the message server .

The message management server can be used to specifically provide support for the management of messages such as e mail messages that are to be handled by mobile devices. Generally while messages are still stored on the message server the message management server can be used to control when if and how messages are sent to the mobile device . The message management server also facilitates the handling of messages composed on the mobile device which are sent to the message server for subsequent delivery.

For example the message management server may monitor the user s mailbox e.g. the message store associated with the user s account on the message server for new e mail messages and apply user definable filters to new messages to determine if and how the messages are relayed to the user s mobile device . The message management server may also compress and encrypt new messages e.g. using an encryption technique such as Data Encryption Standard DES Triple DES or Advanced Encryption Standard AES and push them to the mobile device via the shared network infrastructure and the wireless network . The message management server may also receive messages composed on the mobile device e.g. encrypted using Triple DES decrypt and decompress the composed messages re format the composed messages if desired so that they will appear to have originated from the user s computer and re route the composed messages to the message server for delivery.

Certain properties or restrictions associated with messages that are to be sent from and or received by the mobile device can be defined e.g. by an administrator in accordance with IT policy and enforced by the message management server . These may include whether the mobile device may receive encrypted and or signed messages minimum encryption key sizes whether outgoing messages must be encrypted and or signed and whether copies of all secure messages sent from the mobile device are to be sent to a pre defined copy address for example.

The message management server may also be adapted to provide other control functions such as only pushing certain message information or pre defined portions e.g. blocks of a message stored on the message server to the mobile device . For example in some cases when a message is initially retrieved by the mobile device from the message server the message management server may push only the first part of a message to the mobile device with the part being of a pre defined size e.g. 2 KB . The user can then request that more of the message be delivered in similar sized blocks by the message management server to the mobile device possibly up to a maximum pre defined message size. Accordingly the message management server facilitates better control over the type of data and the amount of data that is communicated to the mobile device and can help to minimize potential waste of bandwidth or other resources.

The mobile data server encompasses any other server that stores information that is relevant to the corporation. The mobile data server may include but is not limited to databases online data document repositories customer relationship management CRM systems or enterprise resource planning ERP applications.

The contact server can provide information for a list of contacts for the user in a similar fashion as the address book on the mobile device . Accordingly for a given contact the contact server can include the name phone number work address and e mail address of the contact among other information. The contact server can also provide a global address list that contains the contact information for all of the contacts associated with the host system .

It will be understood by persons skilled in the art that the message management server the mobile data server the contact server the device manager module the data store and the IT policy server do not need to be implemented on separate physical servers within the host system . For example some or all of the functions associated with the message management server may be integrated with the message server or some other server in the host system . Alternatively the host system may include multiple message management servers particularly in variant implementations where a large number of mobile devices need to be supported.

Alternatively in some embodiments the IT policy server can provide the IT policy editor the IT user property editor and the data store . In some cases the IT policy server can also provide the device manager module . The processor of the IT policy server can be used to perform the various steps of a method for providing IT policy data that is customizable on a per user basis as explained further below and in conjunction with . The processor can execute the editors and . In some cases the functionality of the editors and can be provided by a single editor. In some cases the memory unit can provide the data store .

The device manager module provides an IT administrator with a graphical user interface with which the IT administrator interacts to configure various settings for the mobile devices . As mentioned the IT administrator can use IT policy rules to define behaviors of certain applications on the mobile device that are permitted such as phone web browser or Instant Messenger use. The IT policy rules can also be used to set specific values for configuration settings that an organization requires on the mobile devices such as auto signature text WLAN VoIP VPN configuration security requirements e.g. encryption algorithms password rules etc. specifying themes or applications that are allowed to run on the mobile device and the like.

In some cases a mobile wireless communications device may not need a hard or full reset. Rather than resetting all or most of the systems it may be desirable instead to reset one or a few subsystems. Perhaps only the CPU needs to be reset for example. In such cases a partial reset may be performed. Positively the partial reset feature may provide a mobile wireless communications device reset that is shorter in duration than a hard full reset. A potential drawback to the partial reset of the CPU may be that other subsystems that do not need to be reset are adversely affected. Resetting a CPU for example may cause all of the CPU output pins to return to their default values. A return to the defaults values typically includes resetting the GPU thereby causing the display to be changed for example the display may flicker or blank out.

As described below a processor such as a CPU may be resettable along with the GPU and the processor also may be partially resettable without resetting the GPU. When the processor is reset without resetting the GPU a change in the display of the device can be avoided. This concept will be described in the context of a mobile wireless communications device which may include a display and a GPU. The GPU is resettable and an undesirable change in the output of the display occurs such as a flickering or a blanking when the display is reset. The mobile wireless communications device also includes a wireless transceiver and a processor cooperating with the GPU and the wireless transceiver for wireless communications. The processor may be resettable along with the GPU and the processor also may be partially resettable without resetting the GPU to avoid a change in the display.

Referring now to a mobile wireless communications device illustratively includes a display and a graphics processing unit GPU cooperating therewith to provide a graphical user interface to a user. The mobile wireless communications device illustratively includes a power management circuit coupled to the processor and a rechargeable power source illustrated as a battery . The battery is illustratively coupled to the power management circuit . A clock signal generator is controlled by the processor and is coupled to the display to provide a clock signal thereto. The display operates based upon the clock signal. Non volatile memory and volatile memory are coupled to the processor . A wireless transceiver is coupled to the processor and performs at least one wireless communications function. A backlit keyboard and a backlit pointing device are coupled to the processor and facilitate user input.

The display may include for example a transmissive thin film transistor liquid crystal display LCD . The processor may include for example a Marvell Tavor PV processor as available from Marvell Semiconductor Inc. of Santa Clara Calif. In certain example embodiments the wireless transceiver may include a transceiver for a radio communications technology for example a Global System for Mobile communications GSM a code division multiple access CDMA and or a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System Wideband Code Division Multiple Access UMTS W CDMA .

Also the mobile wireless communication device illustratively includes a housing carrying the display the GPU the wireless transceiver the battery the power management circuit the processor the backlit pointing device the backlit keyboard the volatile memory the non volatile memory and the clock signal generator . The mobile wireless communications device illustratively includes a plurality of switches affixed to an outer surface of the housing .

Further the mobile wireless communications device further illustratively includes a reset management block which may be a logic circuit coupled between the processor and the GPU and between the power management circuit and the GPU. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the mobile wireless communications device includes a plurality of power lines power rails providing power to each of the integrated circuits ICs .

During operation the processor cooperates with the GPU and the wireless transceiver for wireless communications and other mobile wireless functions for example GPS navigation and Internet applications. Also as may be desirable during certain operations the processor may reset the GPU thereby causing a change in the display when reset i.e. a flickering or blanking of the display. The processor is resettable along with the GPU . More particularly during a hard full reset procedure the power management circuit may disable the power lines to all IC circuits causing each IC circuit to reset i.e. the power management circuit shuts down power to the GPU and the processor and a reset procedure is required upon the subsequent power up.

The processor executes an operating system and the reset management block cooperates with the processor such that the operating system is resettable without resetting a state of a user visible peripheral i.e. display backlit pointing device or backlit keyboard to thereby avoid a user visible change.

It is useful that the processor may be partially resettable without resetting the GPU . In other words the processor may access a command to reset itself without disruption of power supply from the power management circuit to any of the other IC circuits. In some example embodiments the processor may access a command to reset itself automatically without a command from the user e.g. this may be referred to as a software assertion . Further to this point during the partial reset operation of the processor the power management circuit maintains power to the GPO and the processor . Nonetheless during the partial reset operation of the processor the processor returns all pin outputs to default values. For example the GPU reset output pin would return to a default low value which in the typical device would reset the GPO and display and may be described as high or low but this is for convenience of explanation and the concepts described herein are not necessarily limited to particular logical values.

In this mobile wireless communications device the GPU reset signal received from the GPU reset output pin of the processor is fed into the reset management block . The power management circuit illustratively provides a GPU reset hold signal which is also input in the reset management block . The output of the reset management block is coupled to a reset pin of the GPU and provides a reset control signal. It is useful that during the partial reset operation of the processor the logic circuit maintains the output to a high value even though the GPU reset signal from the processor goes to a low value thereby preventing the GPU and display from resetting i.e. this avoids any flickering or blanking of the display during the partial reset. It is noted that the power management circuit itself does not reset thus its reset hold signal is kept across the GPU s reset.

In some example embodiments the reset management block may include a logic circuit including an OR gate. More particularly the OR gate may receive the GPU reset signal from the processor and the GPU reset hold signal from the power management circuit . During the partial reset operation the processor GPU reset signal goes to a low value and is OR ed with the GPU reset hold signal of the power management circuit for example the power management IC General Purpose Input Output PMIC GPIO signal. During the partial reset the power management circuit PMIC GPIO signal remains at a high value and keeps the output of the OR gate i.e. the reset control signal also at a high value thereby preventing the GPU and display from resetting and disrupting the user experience. It should be noted that the state of any other ICs that may result in a user visible change e.g. keyboard backlighting etc. may be held and prevented from resetting. Indeed in the mobile wireless communications device the processor may perform a partial reset without the user even noticing.

Furthermore the second pull down resistor coupled to the output of the OR gate is used to maintain the output at a low value during the power up operation. More particularly the time period of concern is prior to 1.8 Volt power application to the OR gate. In other words the second pull down resistor keeps the OR gate output at a low value when the OR gate is not powered Blocks . Of course if the OR gate can maintain a low while being without power then the second pull down resistor may be omitted.

Referring now to another example embodiment of the mobile wireless communications device is now described. In this embodiment of the mobile wireless communications device those elements already discussed above with respect to are given prime notation and most require no further discussion herein. This embodiment differs from the previous example embodiment in that the reset management block of the mobile wireless communications device further comprise an OR gate receiving the GPU reset and the GPU reset hold signals and outputting the reset control signal to the GPU. Further as discussed herein above the mobile wireless communications device further includes a pair of pull down resistors .

Another aspect is directed to a method for making a mobile wireless communications device . The method may include coupling a GPU to a display the GPU being resettable and causing a change in the display when reset and coupling a processor to the GPU and a wireless transceiver for wireless communications. The processor may be resettable along with the GPU and the processor also may be partially resettable without resetting the GPU to avoid a change in the display .

The mobile wireless communications device described hereinabove is useful over the typical mobile wireless communications device. For example mobile wireless communications device experiences shorter reboot times and provides a more desirable user experience during a partial reset operation since the display does not flicker or reset during aforesaid partial reset operations. Indeed the user may be unaware that the mobile wireless communications device has performed a Fast Reset method as disclosed herein.

Either separately independently from or in conjunction with one or more of the operations and components discussed above a mobile device can be configured as shown in to improve operations associated with resetting the mobile device. As discussed above a reset operation in which the entire system is reset is often called a hard reset operation or a full reset operation or a cold boot operation. When a full reset is performed in the device the power supplied to the processor is cycled off and on thereby resetting the processor. A reset operation in which the software or operating system is reset without the hardware being reset may be referred to as a partial reset or warm boot. 

Illustratively depicts a wireless communications device similar to that described above indeed elements of the wireless communications device not specifically described are similar to those of the mobile wireless communications device described above with reference to . Here the volatile memory may be random access memory RAM and the nonvolatile memory may be read only memory ROM Flash memory a magnetic RAM etc. The wireless communications device could also have other memory devices such as intelligent random access memory TRAM .

The processor executes various software routines including an operating system and a virtual machine such as a Java virtual machine JVM in an example embodiment . Additionally one or more user application modules may execute on the virtual machine. The user application modules may include such applications as electronic mail e mail clients scheduling applications text entry or other applications that can allow a user to create send receive or manipulate electronic data.

The processor is coupled to a reset management block and is configured to maintain power to a user visible peripheral during a device reset. Moreover the processor directs the clock signal generator to maintain the clock signal to the display during a reset helping prevent the display from flickering.

The wireless communications device can be configured to handle software operations associated with a reset thereof. The reset management block can be used to receive notification of a reset on the mobile device. The reset management block can then notify one or more applications e.g. user application code or the virtual machine of the impending reset and can assign non volatile memory to the application. The reset management block can retain power until an application has its volatile memory contents e.g. data used by the application during the application s execution transferred to the assigned memory block. The reset management block accomplishes this by directing the power management circuit to maintain device power until completion of the temporary storage of the application data in the non volatile memory .

The reset management block can transfer the stored volatile memory contents back to volatile memory for use by the application e.g. during the application s execution based upon the wireless communications device receiving a startup request or after a reset of the operating system.

A software initiated reset will typically occur when the mobile device receives an unexpected input and is unable to handle it. The software initiated reset may be prompted by the JVM OS or a test application under non catastrophic conditions or under catastrophic failure.

There are two types of software initiated resets soft reset and hard reset. A soft reset does not reset any hardware. It restarts the OS by executing the OS at the beginning of OS image. The data in RAM is not lost during this type of reset. However it is up to the OS to decide to reuse those data or to overwrite the RAM area. RAM reuse is tied to faster bootup times. Basically the number of modules that need not be reinitialized is related to faster boot times.

A hard reset behaves the same as power off reset. Instead of pulling off the battery it pins the hardware reset line on the board. A soft reset typically runs faster than a hard reset. The implementation may be varied on each platform depending on hardware limitations. Some defined conditions are used to determine if the device resets by soft reset or hard reset. Also if the software assertion is critical enough that post soft reset integrity checks are predicted to fail then a hard reset is performed. A Fast Reset method as disclosed herein is only allowed during soft reset in an example embodiment.

Most resets are software initiated except hardware resets watchdog timer WDT resets when interrupts are disabled and Power on reset POR which is a complete loss of power. Note that a when a mobile device is powered off using the power key power may not actually be removed from the CPU. Instead the device may go into a deep sleep state where current consumption is minimal without even resetting the CPU. This is why a mobile device may seem to turn on instantly once the power key is pressed again.

To address the slow cold boot time especially during early development stages where self initiated resets are frequent Fast Reset methods and apparatus as disclosed herein were developed. As used herein a Fast Reset or warm boot is a software reset that maintains the state of the hardware including values stored in RAM. During OS and Radio bootup both cold and warm the executing context for most processes in RAM is reset to defaults. Other specially marked areas of RAM are not re initialized or touched during the boot sequence and as a result will survive a warm boot. Note that care may be taken when using data from these RAM areas as a hardware failure e.g. power loss glitch or a software failure e.g. bad pointer can cause data corruption. These areas contain context information for specific application processes i.e. JVM and or modules which are eligible for a warm restart through which a sizeable portion of their reinitialization sequence is skipped. Once the OS Radio has completed its bootup process cold and warm all OS APIs are reset to their initial state.

During startup the JVM queries the OS on whether the device is coming up from a warm boot. If the OS indicates that the device is coming up from a cold boot or if the JVM tests fail all existing RAM context is wiped out and the JVM starts from scratch. In this case any pre reset user data e.g. an email being composed is lost. If the OS indicates a warm boot the JVM runs internal checks on its preserved RAM areas and Java process contexts. Once these tests pass the last Java thread context is loaded and the JVM starts executing where it left off. Thus if the end user was composing a large email in the compose window the same window will appear and no text will have been lost.

A warm boot can lead to an out of sync scenario between Java Applications and the OS as the JVM starts executing where it left off and the OS API is completely reset. In order to handle this the JVM provides an object oriented Listener interface to notify applications on a Fast Reset. In the JVM s warm boot case avoiding the startup time of the Java Applications that would have occurred on a cold boot can yield significant time savings. As would be appreciated by those skilled in the art a JVM is a set of computer software programs and data structures that use a virtual machine model for the execution of other computer programs and scripts. The model used by a JVM accepts a form of computer intermediate language commonly referred to as Java bytecode. This language conceptually represents the instruction set of a stack oriented capability architecture. The JVM is distributed along with a set of standard class libraries that implement the Java API Application Programming Interface .

A Fast Reset as disclosed herein is not guaranteed in certain example embodiments. If the JVM was executing bytecode when it reset a Fast Reset method cannot proceed as thread context could be corrupted. Thus the JVM may take the following steps on bootup. If the OS disallows fast reset execute a full reset. If the JVM state disallows Fast Reset execute a full reset. Execute memory sanity check etc. and if any problem is found execute a full reset. Execute a Fast Reset and if something goes wrong during the execution of the Fast Reset execute the next reset as a full reset.

Once a Fast Reset method is complete the JVM posts a Fast Reset message to the applications which in turn causes a repaint message to get sent to the foreground process this may be sent to all processes instead . There are cases where the JVM is directly controlling what s being shown on the display and a Fast Reset may not be allowed in any of these states. A usefulness of Fast Reset is to avoid the startup time of the Java Applications that would have occurred on a cold boot. When a Java Application initiates a reset it means the application encountered a failure. In this scenario Fast Reset may not be allowed.

A Fast Reset will appear to the user as a short device hang followed by a period e.g. 5 seconds of LED on LCD off before the LCD turns on again with the same pre reset image and Java continues exactly where it was. In most cases the only negative side effect is a few missed keystrokes.

Enhanced Fast Reset is a feature where the state of the user visible peripherals are kept throughout a Fast Reset from the point the CPU reboots through the warm boot phase until control is handed back the JVM. As used herein user visible peripherals may include for example the display and device backlights such as trackball and keyboard backlights. Externally the device would appear as if it just hung for a few seconds. The features for this Enhanced Fast Reset are as follows the LCD panel is placed in self refresh mode before the reset keyboard and LCD backlights retain their state power clocks and reset are maintained to all peripherals that need to maintain state where applicable the JVM indicates to the OS when a Fast Reset has failed if the Fast Reset fails the device reverts to a cold boot during the warm boot sequence where the device is unresponsive an overlay e.g. an hourglass may be overlayed on top of the LCD image USB current draw limits are met if the device is plugged in bootrom dependencies are kept to a minimum.

Enhanced Fast Reset example cases are described below. During a successful Fast Reset from initiated soft reset an hourglass is overlayed on the LCD backlights are kept device resets image is retained bootrom executes and hands control back to OS OS refrains from resetting LCD control is handed over to JVM JVM indicates a Fast Reset JVM clears hourglass repaint message is sent to all Java processes. For an unsuccessful Fast Reset from initiated soft reset an hourglass is overlayed on the LCD backlights are kept device resets image is retained bootrom executes and hands control back to OS OS refrains from resetting LCD control is handled over to JVM but JVM was not idle when device reset JVM indicates a Full Reset OS clears the LCD image and reverts to normal startup screen.

A Per task reset may also be possible and would let the system restart any single task or group of tasks . This will help reduce the number of system resets by restarting only the portion of the system that is in trouble.

The main features for a warm boot are to keep power and RAM interface signals intact across a system wide reset thus guaranteeing data preservation to provide deterministic hardware indication of whether a cold or warm boot was performed to reset most peripherals other than RAM and CPU in the absence of a reset power cycling them and to avoid resetting the LCD LED and backlights so that there s no external indication of a reset to the user to provide deterministic indication of a power loss e.g. battery pull even if just momentarily as this power loss may corrupt RAM .

During the course of operation of the mobile device some use cases may require overwriting the RAM area occupied by JVM data. In these cases even if a warm boot was performed and RAM power and signals were kept intact the OS may indicate to the JVM that a cold boot is required.

The steps or operations in the flow charts described herein are example embodiments. There may be many variations to these steps or operations without departing from the spirit of the invention. For instance the steps may be performed in a differing order or steps may be added deleted or modified.

Many modifications and other example embodiments will come to the mind of one skilled in the art having the benefit of the teachings presented in the foregoing descriptions and the associated drawings. Therefore it is understood that various modifications and example embodiments are intended to be included within the scope of the appended claims.

