---

title: Data security system for a database
abstract: A method and an apparatus for processing data provides protection for the data. The data is stored as encrypted data element values (DV) in records (P) in a first database (0-DB), each data element value being linked to a corresponding data element type (DT). In a second database (IAM-DB), a data element protection catalogue (DC) is stored, which for each individual data element type (DT) contains one or more protection attributes stating processing rules for data element values (DV), which in the first database (0-DB) are linked to the individual data element type (DT). In each user-initiated measure which aims at processing a given data element value (DV) in the first database (0-DB), a calling is initially sent to the data element protection catalogue for collecting the protection attribute/attributes associated with the corresponding data element types. The user's processing of the given data element value is controlled in conformity with the collected protection attribute/attributes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08402281&OS=08402281&RS=08402281
owner: Protegrity Corporation
number: 08402281
owner_city: Grand Cayman
owner_country: KY
publication_date: 20101029
---
This application is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 603 967 filed Nov. 21 2006 which is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 840 188 filed Apr. 24 2001 which is a continuation under 35 U.S.C. 120 of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 027 585 filed Feb. 23 1998 which is the national stage application pursuant to 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application No. PCT SE97 01089 filed Jun. 18 1997. The contents of each patent application are hereby incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates to the technical field of computer aided information management and concerns more specifically a method and an apparatus for data processing according to the preamble to claim and claim respectively for accomplishing increased protection against unauthorised processing of data.

In the field of computer aided information management it is strongly required that the protection against unauthorised access of data registers be increased especially against violation of the individual s personal integrity when setting up and keeping personal registers i.e. registers containing information on individuals. In particular there are regulations restricting and prohibiting the linking and matching of personal registers. Also in other fields such as industry defence banking insurance etc improved protection is desired against unauthorised access to the tools databases applications etc. that are used for administration and storing of sensitive information.

WO95 15628 which has the same owner as the present application discloses a method for storing data which results in increased possibilities of linking and matching with no risk of reduced integrity. The method which is illustrated schematically in on the enclosed drawing sheets concerns storing of information comprising on the one hand an identifying piece of information or original identity OID for instance personal code numbers Pcn and on the other hand descriptive information DI. The information OID DI is stored as records P in a database O DB according to the following principle 

For a closer description of the details and advantages of this encrypting and storing method reference is made to WO95 15628 which is to be considered to constitute part of the present description. The storing principle according to steps 1 4 above is below referred to as PTY which is an abbreviation of the concept PROTEGRITY which stands for Protection and Integrity .

A detailed technical description of PTY is also supplied in the document PROTEGRITY ASIS Study 2 Ver. 1.2 1 Mar. 1996 by Leif Jonson. Also this document is to be considered to constitute part of the present description.

In the technical field at issue so called shell protections however are today the predominant method of protection. Shell protection comprises on the one hand the external security premises and on the other hand an authorisation check system ACS with user s passwords for controlling the access. ACS is used as shell protection for main frames client server systems and PC but it does not give full protection and the information at issue can often relatively easily be subjected to unauthorised access. This protection has been found more and more unsatisfactory since to an increasing extent sensitive information is being stored which must permit managing via distribution storing and processing in dynamically changing environments especially local distribution to personal computers. Concurrently with this development the limits of the system will be more and more indistinct and the effect afforded by a shell protection deteriorates.

In view of that stated above the object of the present invention is to provide an improved method for processing information by means of which it is possible to increase the protection against unauthorised access to sensitive information.

A special object of the invention is to provide a technique for data processing or managing which makes it possible for the person responsible for the system the management of the organisation etc. to easily establish and continuously adapt the user s possibility of processing stored information that is to be protected.

A further object of the invention is to provide a technique for data processing which offers protection against attempts at unauthorised data processing by means of non accepted software.

One more object of the invention is to provide a technique for data processing according to the above mentioned objects which can be used in combination with the above described PTY principle for providing a safety system with an extremely high level of protection.

These and other objects of the invention are achieved by the method according to claim and the apparatus according to claim preferred embodiments of the invention being stated in the dependent claims.

Thus the invention provides a method for processing of data that is to be protected comprising the measure of storing the data as encrypted data element values of records in a first database O DB each data element value being linked to a corresponding data element type.

storing in a second database IAM DB a data element protection catalogue which for each individual data element type contains one or more protection attributes stating processing rules for data element values which in the first database are linked to the individual data element type 

in each user initiated measure aiming at processing of a given data element value in the first database initially producing a compelling calling to the data element protection catalogue for collecting the protection attribute attributes associated with the corresponding data element type and compellingly controlling the processing of the given data element value in conformity with the collected protection attribute attributes.

The inventive method offers a new type of protection which differs essentially from the prior art shell protection and which works on the cell or data element level. Each data element type used in the records in the first database is thus associated with one or more protection attributes which are stored in a separate data element protection catalogue and which protection attributes state rules of how to process the corresponding data element values. It should be particularly noted that the calling to the data element protection catalogue is compelling. This means that in a system in which the method according to the invention is implemented is such as to imply that a user who for instance wants to read a certain data element value in a given record in the first database by his attempt at access to the data element value automatically and compellingly produces a system calling to the data element protection catalogue in the second database for collecting the protection attributes associated with the corresponding data element types. The continued processing procedure reading of data element value of the system is also controlled compellingly in accordance with the collected protection attribute attributes applying to the corresponding data element types.

The term data element protection catalogue and the use thereof according to the invention must not be confused with the known term active dictionary which means that in addition to an operative database there is a special table indicating different definitions or choices for data element values in the operative database for instance that a data element value yellow in terms of definition means a colour code which is within a numeric interval stated in such a reference table.

Preferably the processing rules stated by the protection attributes are inaccessible to the user and the read or collected protection attributes are preferably used merely internally by the system for controlling the processing. A given user who for instance wants to read information stored in the database regarding a certain individual thus need not at all be aware of the fact that certain protection attributes have been activated and resulted in certain sensitive information for this individual being excluded from the information that is made available on e.g. a display. Each user initiated measure aiming at processing of data element values thus involves on the one hand a compelling calling to the data element protection catalogue and on the other hand a continued processing which is compellingly subjected to those processing rules that are stated by the protection attributes and this may thus be accomplished without the user obtaining information on what rules control the processing at issue and especially without the user having any possibility of having access to the rules.

By altering adding and removing protection attributes in the data element protection catalogue the person responsible for the system or an equivalent person may easily determine for each individual data element type the processing rules applying to data element values associated with the individual data element type and thus easily maintain a high and clear safety quality in the system.

According to the invention it is thus the individual data element date element type and not the entire register that becomes the controlling unit for the way in which the organisation operator etc. responsible for the system has determined the level of quality responsibility and safety regarding the management of information.

To obtain a high level of protection the data element protection catalogue is preferably encrypted so as to prevent unauthorised access thereto.

As preferred protection attributes the present invention provides the following possibilities which however are to be considered an incomplete exemplifying list 

According to a specially preferred embodiment of the invention the above described PTY storing method is used for encryption of all data that is to be encrypted in both the database i.e. the data element values and the data element protection catalogue i.e. the protection attributes . In the normal case where each record has a record identifier corresponding to SID above preferably also the record identifier is protected by means of PTY. Specifically a floating alteration of the record identifiers in both the operative database and the data element protection catalogue can be made at desired intervals and at randomly selected times in accordance with the above described PTY principle. In the preferred embodiment especially the encapsulated processor which is used for the PTY encryption can also be used for implementation of the callings to the data element protection catalogue and the procedure for processing according to the collected protection attributes.

The invention will now be explained in more detail with reference to the accompanying drawings which schematically illustrate the inventive principle implemented in an exemplifying data system.

In the following the designation IAM which stands for Information Assets Manager will be used for the components and applications which in the embodiment are essential to the implementation of the invention.

The data system in further comprises a hardware component a control module IAM API and a program module PTY API . The function of these three components will now be described in more detail.

The hardware component acts as a distributed processor of its own in a computer. It has an encapsulation that makes it completely tamper proof which means that monitoring by so called trace tools will not be possible.

The control module carries out the processing requested via API Application Program Interface programming interface.

The program module PTY API handles the dialogue between the application involved including ACS and the hardware component . This module may further log events and control sorting out removal of data from the operative database O DB.

Reference is now made to which illustrates the same four databases P DB O DB A DB IAM DB as in and which schematically illustrates how the processing of individual data elements are according to the invention controlled according to the rules that are stated by protection attributes in the data element protection catalogue which is stored in the database IAM DB.

The data that is to be stored concerns in this example a certain individual and contains 1 generally accessible data such as name and address 2 identifying information such as personal code number Pcn and 3 descriptive information DI . The generally accessible data name and address is stored together with personal code number Pcn in the open database P DB said storage being performable as plain text since this information is of the type that is generally accessible.

For storing the identifying information in combination with the descriptive information DI the following steps will however be made in which the following designations are used to describe encrypting and decrypting algorithms. Generally speaking the encrypting and decrypting algorithms can be described as follows Random number Input data Results wherein 

The original identity OID is encrypted according to the PTY principle in two steps of which the first is non reversible and the second is reversible. Thus it is impossible to store the descriptive information DI along with a storage identity SID that never can be linked to the original identity OID as well as to create floating i.e. which change over time storage identities SID while retaining the possibility of locating for a specific original identity OID the associated descriptive information DI stored.

The descriptive data DI is stored in accordance with protection attributes linked to each individual data element. This results in a still higher level of protection and a high degree of flexibility as to the setting up of rules and continuous adaptation thereof of how sensitive data is allowed to be used and can be used down to the data element level.

To increase the level of protection still more the data element protection catalogue DC is preferably stored in IAM DB in encrypted form in accordance with the PTY principle in which case for instance the data element types correspond to the above storage identity and the protection attributes correspond to the descriptive information or data element values above as schematically illustrated in . This efficiently prevents every attempt at circumventing the data element protection by unauthorised access and interpretation of the content of the data element protection catalogue.

In the above embodiment of the procedure for inputting data in the operative database O DB only degree of encryption has so far been discussed as data element protection attribute in the data element protection catalogue DC. However this is only one example among a number of possible protection attributes in the data element protection catalogue which normally offers a plurality of protection attitudes for each data element. Preferred protection attributes have been indicated above in the general description.

A particularly interesting protection attribute is protected programs . The use of this data element protection attribute means that the data system may offer a new type of protection which is here called functionality protection and which means that only accepted or certified programs are allowed to be used and can be used in the system in the processing of data. It should be noted that this type of protection is still according to the invention on the data element level.

Now assume for the purpose of illustration that Func in the data element protection catalogue DC in corresponds to this protection attribute and that data elements of the data element type DT and DT respectively are only allowed to processed with the accepted applications or programs P and P respectively. Unauthorised handling of the corresponding data elements by means of for instance a different program P or a modified version P of P should be prevented. As protection attribute in the data element protection catalogue data identifying P and P is therefore stored. In a preferred example an encryptographic check sum P and P respectively is created in a manner known per se based on every accepted program P and P respectively. These check sums may be considered to constitute a unique fingerprint of the respective accepted programs and these fingerprints can be stored as protection attributes in the data element protection catalogue as illustrated schematically in . It should however be noted that such check sums for accepted programs can optionally be stored in a data element protection catalogue of their own for registering of accepted programs separately from the data element protection catalogue with protection attributes for encryption strength.

If the last mentioned type of protection protected programs is used it should also be noted that the system in connection with a user initiated measure aiming at processing of a given data element for instance inputting a new data element value in a certain record need not carry out a complete examination of all programs accepted in the system. If for instance the user tries to use a program P for inputting in the operative database O DB a new data element value a compelling calling is sent to the data element protection catalogue in connection with the corresponding data element type for instance DT. The associated protection attribute P is then collected from the data element protection catalogue which means that such a data element value is only allowed to be stored by means of the program P. The attempt at registering the data element value by means of the program P would therefore fail.

By periodic use of the above described functionality protection it is possible to reveal and or prevent that an unauthorised person for instance a hacker breaks into the system by means of a non accepted program and modifies and or adds descriptive data in such a manner that the descriptive data will then be identifying for the record. The data element values are thus not allowed to become identifying in the operative database O DB.

 Logging or traceability is another type of protection which according to the invention can be linked to a data element type in the data element protection catalogue. If this protection is activated for a certain data element type each processing of the corresponding data element values in the operative database O DB will automatically and compellingly result in relevant information on the processing user date record user program etc. being logged in a suitable manner so that based on the log it is possible to investigate afterwards who has processed the data element values at issue when by means of which program etc.

In connection with a user initiated measure aiming at reading altering data element values in the stored records in the operative database O DB the following steps are carried out which specifically also comprise a compelling calling to the data element protection catalogue and unpacking of the data which is controlled automatically and compellingly by collected protection attributes.

If the data element protection catalogue is encrypted the decoding key can be stored in a storage position separate from the first and the second database.

