---

title: Interactive addition of semantic concepts to a document
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are provided for interactively associating a semantic concept with a unique term that is input by a user. As the user is creating a document and/or once the user has completed a draft of the document, the document is parsed to identify unique terms (e.g., persons, places, things, services, etc.) in the document. When a unique term is identified, a query is generated to locate one or more semantic concepts (e.g., URLs, URNs, or other identifiers, for example) that are associated with the identified unique term and a notification indicative of the results is generated. From this notification, the user can select whether to associate the unique term with any and/or all of the located semantic concepts. In this way, supplemental content may be added to a document that the user is creating, for example.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09582503&OS=09582503&RS=09582503
owner: MICROSOFT TECHNOLOGY LICENSING, LLC
number: 09582503
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100929
---
Today people from all walks of life publish content on the web. For example many people write blogs or microblogs that discussing everything from their daily activities to scientific breakthroughs to commentary on recent newsworthy events. Others still publish articles related to a topic that they believe will somehow serve a public need such as how to manuals for example. Commonly once these posting are published a webhost or other provider will search the content for unique terms and tag the term with a link and or annotation. These links and or annotations might help a user understand the context and or meaning of the unique term may relate to a product the webhost is paid to advertise and or may provide some other relevant information to a reader of the posting. For example annotations are commonly inserted by a webhost and or an advertising company associated with the webhost to surface advertisements that are relevant to the topic of the posting and thus are targeted to the readers of the posting. When a reader selects the unique term or hovers over the term a box containing the annotation appears and provides the reader with the additional content related to the unique term.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques for suggesting to an author semantic concepts e.g. a unique identifier such as a URN URL etc. that can be inserted into a document the author is creating are provided herein. Stated differently as an author is creating a document e.g. a web article blog etc. unique terms can be identified and semantic concepts related to the identified terms can be suggested to the author. The author can choose one or more semantic concepts that can be associated with the respective identified unique term s . In one embodiment the semantic concepts can be inserted into the document as annotations which surface when a reader of the document selects the unique term.

Sometimes a semantic concept that the user wants to associate with a unique term is unavailable. For example some unique terms may have no semantic concepts associated with them and or the semantic concepts that are associated with a unique term may be inappropriate undesirable for the author s document. In these and other circumstances the author may create a semantic concept for the unique term which can then be stored for later use the author and or other authors . Thus where a desired semantic concept does not exists an author can create a semantic concept that can be inserted into the document as an annotation for example.

It will be appreciated that the systems and or techniques described herein provide benefits to the author readers of the content and to aggregators of the content. Authors benefit through the interaction e.g. semantic concepts are suggested to the author rather than being automatically inserted into the document . Thus the author plays an active role in determining what terms are further defined through annotations. Readers and aggregators benefit because the author e.g. as opposed to a computer algorithm selects the semantic concepts that better define the unique terms in his or her document. Thus the semantic concepts that are displayed may be more relevant to the content of the document and the aggregators may have more information to use when indexing the document and or when determining whether to surface the document as a result of a search query.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are generally used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Presently there is not an easy way for an author particularly an author of a document that is published on the web to create annotations that associate previously created ideas e.g. semantic concepts with unique terms or identifiers in the document that author is creating. For example to insert a hyperlink to a webpage about a topic that the author is discussing the author has to know that the webpage exists and know the address of the webpage. There is believed to be no tool that can parse the document and generate suggestions e.g. suggested websites about content that the author may wish to incorporate into his or her document e.g. as annotations . Thus the document s content is limited to the knowledge that the author possesses at the time the document is created.

Recently webhosts of documents that are published on the internet have been attempting to insert additional information e.g. generally in the way of advertisements that is related to the content of the document. For example a webhost may search a document to identify unique terms in the document and may surface ads e.g. as annotations to select terms that are related to the unique term and or the content of the document. While such techniques have provided a mechanism for content to be added to the document the techniques do not allow the author of the document to exercise control over the addition of such content. Generally they are automatically inserted without human review and or acceptance and thus they may not accurately relate to the content the author created e.g. the annotated information may be unrelated to the authored created content .

Accordingly one or more systems and or techniques for identifying unique terms in an author created document and interactively selecting semantic concepts e.g. which may be inserted into the document as annotations are provided. Stated differently a document the author is creating is parsed to identify a unique term s and one or more semantic concepts e.g. URNs URLs etc. are identified based upon the identified unique term s . A list of one or more semantic concepts associated with the identified unique term s may be provided to the author and the author can select a semantic concept which may be inserted into the author created document e.g. as an annotation . It will be appreciated that in one embodiment the acts of identifying unique terms identifying semantic concepts and providing the semantic concepts to the author may be performed in real time e.g. as the author is typing the document . In another embodiment the acts may be performed after the author has finished typing an initial draft of the document e.g. the author may press a button that initiates the aforementioned acts .

In one embodiment e.g. to identify relevant semantic concepts the user inputted information is also sent from the client device to a server device e.g. where a server device is operably coupled to a plurality of client devices . Thus it can be said that the server device receives the user input from the client device. It will be appreciated to those skilled in the art that the user inputted information may be sent to the server device in real time e.g. as the author is inputting the information in periodic intervals and or upon request e.g. the author presses a button on the document creation interface that causes the information to be sent to the server device .

At unique terms in the user input are identified. It will be appreciated the phrase unique terms is used broadly herein to refer to terms that are used as identifiers. For example places persons and or things that are mentioned in the document may be considered to be unique terms. It will be appreciated that the mere fact that a term is used numerous times in a document does not necessarily mean that it is not unique. Rather the term unique merely implies that someone reading the document would associate that word or phrase with a particular thing place person service etc. Moreover it will be appreciated that the word term is used herein is to be construed to mean a word and or a phrase. That is the word term is not intended to be limited to a single word. Rather in some embodiments a phrase may be identified as unique. For example George Washington e.g. two words may be identified as a unique term.

Generally unique terms are identified by parsing the document using analytic and or iterative techniques known to those skilled in the art. For example in one embodiment the terms in the document are compared with a list of predefined unique terms. Terms in the document that substantially match a predefined unique term are identified as unique terms. In another embodiment unique terms are identified based upon the frequency of use of the terms. For example terms that are comprised in less than a predefined threshold e.g. 3 of documents posted to the internet intranet etc. may be identified as unique terms. In yet another embodiment proper names are identified as unique terms based upon the capitalization of the term in the document for example. It will be appreciated that the techniques described herein are merely example techniques of identifying unique terms and other techniques that are known to those skilled in the art are also contemplated. That is other techniques which identify unique terms e.g. proper nouns in a document or rather in user input may also be used herein.

In one embodiment where a unique term is not identified using iterative and or analytic techniques the user may be given the option to identify terms in the document as unique e.g. a user override . For example in one embodiment where computer software determines that a term is not unique a user may right click on the term and select an option that makes the term unique. In this way virtually any term in the document the user is creating can be classified as unique e.g. such that semantic concepts associated with the term can be queried regardless of the classification of the term that is made by the an automatic identification technique for example.

At a query is generated to identify at least one semantic concept associated with the identified unique term. That is once the unique terms are identified a search e.g. of a database of semantic concepts is performed to identify one or more semantic concepts which are associated with the identified unique term. It will be appreciated that as used herein the phrase semantic concept refers to unique identifiers such as URNs and or URLs for example that comprise information and or direct a user to information related to and or associated with the identified unique term. For example where the name of a person is comprised in the document e.g. and identified as a unique term a search may be performed to identify semantic concepts associated with the name of the person such as a URL directed to a wiki article about the person a URL directed to a personal website of the person a biography of a person e.g. which may be pulled from a social networking page dedicated to the person etc.

At a notification indicative of one more identified semantic concepts is issued if at least one semantic concept associated with the unique term is identified from the query. The notification generally comprises the semantic concept and or information related to the semantic concept. For example the notification may comprise a URL to a wiki article about an identified person. In another embodiment the notification may comprise directions on how to access the semantic concept. For example where biography information about the identified person is comprised on a webpage that requires user authentication to access the data the notification may comprise instructions on how to access e.g. and copy the biography information from the webpage and or how to copy the information from the webpage to the document that the user e.g. author is creating.

The notification that is issued can be presented to the user in the document creation interface. For example in one embodiment the identified unique term s is highlighted distinguished or otherwise made to stand out from adjacent text in the document creation interface and a bubble appears adjacent to the unique term that comprises the notification. The user may then be given the option to ignore the notification and or to select one or more of the semantic concepts from the notification. If the user selects a semantic concept s the selected concept may be associated with the received user input. For example in one embodiment the selected concept may be inserted into the document as an annotation to the unique term. When a reader of the document selects hovers over or otherwise points to the unique term the annotation may appear e.g. providing the user with additional information on the unique term such as an ability to link to the information for example .

It will be appreciated that in one embodiment a user is given the option to create a new semantic concept for an identified unique term that is not associated with any semantic concepts for an identified unique term that is not associated with a desired semantic concept etc. For example where a term is identified as unique but no semantic concepts are identified that are associated with the identified unique term a notification may be issued and presented to the user that indicates that a unique term was identified but no semantic concepts were associated with the unique term. The user may then have the option to create a semantic concept for the identified unique term. In another example a plurality of semantic concepts may be associated with the identified unique term and may be presented to the user but the presented concepts may not be desirable to the user. Thus the user can create a more desired semantic concept which can be associated with the unique term e.g. which can be stored as an annotation in the document .

It will be appreciated that where the user creates a new semantic concept the new semantic concept may be associated with the unique term and stored e.g. in a database of semantic concepts for later use by the user and or by other users authors. In this way when the user and or another user creates a document comprising the unique term the semantic concept may be identified and presented to the user for use as an annotation in the document for example.

It will be appreciated to those skilled in the art that the example method described herein may be performed in real time as the user is creating the document and or at set or random intervals. For example as the user is creating the document unique terms may be identified e.g. by highlighting the term and suggested semantic concepts associated with the unique term may be presented to the user for insertion into the document e.g. as annotations . In another embodiment such identification and or suggestions is not made until after a draft of the document is created and the user manually requests that semantic concepts associated with unique terms be presented e.g. by selecting a button that begins the acts herein described . In yet another embodiment unique terms are identified and or semantic concepts are presented at predetermined periodic intervals e.g. every 5 minutes the document is scanned to identify unique terms . Thus the acts described herein may be performed virtually any time during the creation of the document and or after the creation of the document.

In a user has begun inputting text that is displayed in a text box comprised within the document creation interface . Here the text reads This past weekend I hiked through Yellowstone National Park. 

In the phrase Yellowstone National Park is identified as a unique term and is distinguished as a unique term e.g. by double underlying the term in the document creation interface . It will be appreciated that while the unique term is distinguished herein using double underlying other techniques may be used to distinguish the unique term. For example the term may be highlighted bolded and or the font of the unique term may be altered to distinguish the unique term from other terms in the text box .

It will be appreciated that numerous techniques for identifying unique terms are known to those of skill in the art. For example in one embodiment the text comprised in the text box is compared to predetermined unique terms and if a portion of the text matches a predefined unique term that matching portion of the text is identified or classified as a unique term. In another example unique terms such as proper names places and or things for example may be classified based upon their capitalization in the text box . In yet another embodiment other analytic and or iterative techniques known to those skilled in the art may be combined with the aforementioned techniques and or used instead of the aforementioned techniques to identify unique terms in the text .

Once a unique term is identified semantic concepts associated with the unique term may be identified e.g. based upon a query of a database comprising semantic concepts and presented to the user. illustrates a document creation interface wherein a bubble or box comprising identified semantic concepts associated with the unique term may be presented to the user. As illustrated three semantic concepts are associated with the identified unique term Yellowstone National Park and are presented to the user. These comprise a link to the official Yellowstone National Park webpage a map illustrating the location of Yellowstone National Park and a link to a wiki article on Yellowstone National Park . From these semantic concepts the user may select one or more semantic concepts and the selected concept s may be associated with the identified unique term Yellowstone National Park for example as illustrated in .

In some circumstances a term may be identified as unique but multiple semantic topics or categories respectively comprising a plurality of semantic concepts may be associated with the unique term. For example if a user were to enter the term Washington it may be unclear whether the user is referencing the state of Washington Washington D.C. or George Washington for example. Thus in one embodiment the semantic topic e.g. which Washington the user is referencing might be determined before a notification indicative of semantic concepts associated with the unique term Washington is issued e.g. such that the notification is indicative of semantic concepts that may be useful to the user . illustrates an example method for determining which semantic topic a user is referencing when an identified unique term is associated with multiple semantic topics. The method begins at and user input is received at . For example in one embodiment user input is received on a client device and sent from the client device to a server device where it is received by the server device. Thus it may be said that the user input is received at the client device and or at the server device.

At a unique term is identified. As described above in one embodiment the term is identified using analytic and or iterative techniques known to those skilled in the art. For example the text of the received user input can be parsed to identify terms that match terms that are comprised in a predetermined list of unique terms. In another embodiment a user may specify that a term is unique e.g. by right clicking on the term and selecting a menu option that identifies the term as unique .

At it is determined whether multiple semantic topics are associated with the identified unique term. It will be appreciated that the phrase semantic topics is used herein broadly to mean categories of interest e.g. generally people places things services etc. . Respective semantic topics may comprise a plurality of semantic concepts. For example George Washington may be considered to be a semantic topic and associated with the topic George Washington may be a plurality of semantic concepts related to the topic of George Washington. For example associated with the topic George Washington may be a first semantic concept e.g. a URL pointing to wiki article on George Washington another semantic concept e.g. URL may be pointing to a presidential biography on George Washington etc. Thus respective topics may be associated a plurality of semantic concepts.

If there are not multiple semantic topics associated with the identified unique term a notification indicative of one or more semantic concepts associated with the unique term is created at e.g. as described with respect to . For example if the unique term that was identified at was George Washington a notification indicative of semantic concepts may be created at unless there are multiple topics associated with the term George Washington. 

If there are multiple semantic topics associated with the identified unique term a notification indicative of the multiple semantic topics is created at . For example if the identified unique term is Washington multiple semantic topics may be identified such as the state of Washington Washington D.C. and George Washington. If it is unclear which topic the user is referring to in the received user input a notification indicative of at least two possible topics may be created and presented to the user so that the user can choose the correct topic.

At a user selection of a semantic topic is received. In this way the user selects which topic the user is referring to in the received user input e.g. which allows the scope of the semantic concepts that are presented to the user to be narrowed . For example the user may be presented with the notification that was created at and given the option to choose one semantic topic from the list of identified semantic topics.

At semantic concepts associated with the selected topic are identified. That is once it is known which semantic topic the user is referring to a query can be performed to identify semantic concepts associated with the selected semantic topic. For example if the user selects the semantic topic Washington D.C. based upon the notification indicative of the two or more possible topics one or more semantic concepts associated with the topic Washington D.C. may be identified.

Once semantic concepts associated with the selected semantic topic are identified at a notification indicative of the one or more identified semantic concepts associated with the selected semantic topic may be created at . The created notification can then be presented to the user and the user can select a semantic concept to associate with the unique term e.g. as described with respect to .

The system comprises a client device e.g. a personal computer that is configured to receive user input from the user . For example the user may enter text into a keyboard operably coupled to the client device and or may use a mouse to navigate within a graphical user interface displayed on a monitor of the client device . The monitor is configured to display the received user input in a document creation interface which may be part of a word processing program and or a web publishing program that is configured to be executed via a microprocessor comprised in the client device for example.

In one embodiment the client device is configured to send the user input or at least a portion of the user input to a server device that is part of the exemplary system and is operably coupled to the client device through a network such as a Wide Area Network WAN a Local Area Network LAN etc. for example. The server device is configured to identify one or more unique terms in the received user input and to generate a notification indicative of semantic concepts respectively associated with the unique terms.

In the example system the server device comprises a receiver such as a network adapter configured to receive user input from the client device and an identification component configured to identify one or more unique terms in the received user input. For example in one embodiment the identification component is configured to compare the text of the received user input to a database not illustrated of predetermined unique terms to identify unique terms in the received user input. It will be appreciated that other analytic and or iterative techniques for identifying unique terms that are known to those skilled in the art are also contemplated. For example in another embodiment the identification component is configured to identify unique terms based upon their capitalization in the received user input.

The example server device also comprises a search component configured to generate a query based upon the identified unique term and to identify at least one semantic concept associated with the unique term. For example in one embodiment the search component is configured to search a semantic concept storage component e.g. a database that is configured to store one or more semantic concepts and to locate at least one semantic concept stored in the semantic concept storage component that is associated with the unique term. For example where the identified unique term is Yellowstone National Park the search component may locate a semantic concept e.g. a URN URL etc. that is directed to the official Yellowstone National Park webpage and or to a wiki article about Yellowstone National Park.

The search component is also configured to send the search results of the search e.g. the identified semantic concepts to a notification component that is configured to generate a notification based upon the identified semantic concepts. It will be appreciated that the notification may comprise the semantic concepts themselves e.g. the notification may comprise URLs to the Yellowstone National Park webpage and or it may comprise information on how to locate the semantic concept. For example where the semantic concept is inaccessible without proper credentials the notification may comprise information on how a user e.g. with proper credentials can access the semantic concept.

The notification component is also configured to issue the notification e.g. through the network to the client device and the client device may be configured to display the notification to the user on the monitor through the document creation interface for example.

In one embodiment before the semantic concept is associated with the unique term e.g. before the semantic concept is inserted into the document as an annotation to the unique term a user selects to associate the semantic concept with the unique term. In this way the user e.g. the author has control over whether additional information related to the unique term is comprised in the document that the user is authoring for example. Thus in one embodiment the client device is configured to receive a selection of a semantic concept comprised in the notification from the user .

Once a selection is made the client device is configured to associate the selected semantic concept with the user input. For example in one embodiment the client device comprises an annotation association component not illustrated that is configured to associate the selected semantic concept with the unique term. Stated differently the client device comprises a component that inserts the semantic concept into the document as an annotation to the unique term that is comprised in the received user input. In this way when a reader of the document selects hovers over etc. the unique term an annotation may appear providing further detail with respect to the unique term.

It will be appreciated while the association of the selected semantic concept with the user input is described with respect to the client device e.g. the client device performs the association in another embodiment the server device performs that association. Thus in one example the annotation association component may be comprised in the server device as opposed to the client device as described above.

It will be appreciated that in some circumstances such as when a term is infrequently used no semantic concepts may be associated with a unique term. Thus in one embodiment the document creation interface is configured to display a field e.g. as illustrated in for creating a new semantic concept. In this way the user can create a new semantic concept where no results were returned from the query and or where the results were undesirable to the user . It will be appreciated that when a new semantic concept is created the semantic concept may be associated with the identified unique term and stored e.g. in the semantic concept storage component for later use by the user and or another user for example.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as the exemplary method of and or exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

