---

title: Methods and devices for restoring session state
abstract: Methods, systems and devices are provided for restoring a multiple call session. A communication terminal can restore a multiple call session after a fault. A network interface can couple the terminal to a network including multiple access terminals associated with the multiple call session. A request for a state of the multiple call session can be transmitted and received by a server in the network. A response including the state can be received. The multiple call session can be restored based on the state of the multiple call session and other information.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08335218&OS=08335218&RS=08335218
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporation
number: 08335218
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100331
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 168 863 entitled METHODS AND PROTOCOLS FOR RESTORING SESSION STATE IN A DISPATCH CONSOLE IN A PUSH TO TALK PTT ENVIRONMENT filed Apr. 13 2009 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The invention relates to restoring session state in a dispatch console operating in a push to talk PTT environment and interfacing with PTT servers and gateways.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations which can also be referred to as cell sites or simply cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN such as a radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints which can be for example ATs occurs within virtual groups where the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communication network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become increasingly important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals such as within a given cell served by a given service provider and the like while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals within a given group served by a given service provider and the like. However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals within a given cell similar to a broadcast.

In addition to various transmission schemes that may be used such as unicast multicast broadcast as described herein a PTT call may also be a half duplex or a full duplex communication for at least some of the participants. Generally a PTT call corresponds to a server mediated communication between two or more identified access terminals regardless of the various configurations used to conduct the PTT calls. A dispatch console can often serve as the mediating server or entity for multiple calls including PTT calls. Difficulties can arise in circumstances where a dispatch console enters a faulty state such as a software crash reboot power failure or the like. In such circumstances the dispatch console can lose information about the state of the PTT call including call states and the like. When a dispatch console restarts after a failure the reset user interface of the dispatch console is inconsistent with the actual state of the call including call clients that were added or dropped while the dispatch console was down and synchronization of any content such as multimedia content that was being streamed during the outage. While protocols exist for call set up there is a need to manage the restoration of calls when an entity such as a dispatch console fails and is either restarted or the session resumed on a new console.

Therefore in accordance with various embodiments a communication terminal can be provided for restoring a multiple call session after a fault. The exemplary terminal can include a user interface such as an input device keyboard mouse microphone and the like and an output device display and the like. A network interface capable of coupling the communication terminal to a network including multiple access terminals associated with multiple calls of the multiple call session can be provided. A processor can be coupled to the user interface and the network interface. The processor can be configured to transmit a request to a server in the network. The request can include a user identifier associated with a user of the communication terminal and can be for a state of the multiple call session associated with the user identifier prior to the fault. A response can be received from the server including the state of the multiple call session associated with the user identification and the state can be displayed on the output device. The displayed state can include individual states of the multiple calls of the multiple call session. The multiple call session can be restored on the communication terminal based on the state of the multiple call session and based on input received from the input device. For example if ones of the multiple calls of the multiple call session have dropped during the duration of the fault then those calls need not be restored.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless network and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF which messages are typically sent as data packets. The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing or setting up and tearing down data channels such as bearer channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals and . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in an embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN communicates with the RAN such as by way of the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A10 connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA10 connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server may send unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and may send multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Referring to ATs and . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell phones AT is illustrated as a wireless tablet PC and AT is illustrated as a wired desktop station. However in other embodiments it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system can connect to any type of AT and the examples illustrated in are not intended to limit the types of ATs that may be implemented within the system. Also while the AAA the provisioning server the IMS SIP registration server and the application server are each illustrated as structurally separate servers one or more of these servers may be consolidated in at least one embodiment of the invention.

Referring to an access terminal shown in the figure as a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor can execute programs applications or the like developed in accordance with an application programming interface API layer that can be used to develop programs applications or the like to interface with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device such as an operating system or the like. The memory can include read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash memory cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications and other data not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein through operation of hardware software or a combination thereof. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute program instruction for carrying out the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited solely to the illustrated features or arrangement.

Referring to an access terminal embodied as a dispatch console has a hardware platform capable of coupling with a network either in a wired or wireless fashion or in both a wireless and wired fashion and performing processing functions. It is possible that the platform can couple with a network such as the Internet or an intranet and also couple to a wireless network. The platform can receive and execute software applications and can transmit and receive data and or transmit commands and receive messages from for example other access terminals and equipment coupled to the RAN . It will be appreciated that message and command interchange may further ultimately be conducted with the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver that in the present embodiment and other embodiments may be part of or may be coupled to a network interface that is capable of coupling with a network. The transceiver and the network interface may be operably coupled to an processor that can be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit data processing device or the like. The processor can execute programs applications or the like that may reside in program space . The programs can be developed in accordance with an application programming interface API layer that can be used to develop programs applications or the like. The program space can interface with data or any other resident programs in the memory such as an operating system or the like. The memory can include read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash memory cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications user preferences user identification information group identification information and other data. The local database can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk flash memory or the like. The platform in some exemplary embodiments components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as a wired or wireless or wired and wireless network interface connection display keyboard headset and other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an access terminal can be embodied as a dispatch console including the ability to perform the functions described herein through operation of hardware software or a combination thereof. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example processor memory software space and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute program instruction for carrying out the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. The features of an exemplary dispatch console for example as illustrated in are to be considered merely illustrative. The invention is therefore not limited solely to the illustrated features or arrangement.

Referring to an exemplary server has a hardware platform capable of coupling with a network either in a wired or wireless fashion or in both a wireless and wired fashion and performing processing functions. It is possible that the server can couple with a network such as the Internet or an intranet and also couple to a wireless network such as network describer hereinafter for example through a call hosting function that can be a module within the server or can be managed as an external resource by the server. The server can include a media caching module a user state caching module a dispatch gateway module and a media forwarding module all of which are described in greater detail hereinafter.

The platform can receive and execute software applications such as associated with the above described modules and can transmit and receive data and or transmit commands and receive messages from for example other access terminals and equipment coupled thereto and to for example the RAN . It will be appreciated that message and command interchange may further ultimately be conducted with the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver that in the present embodiment and other embodiments may be part of or may be coupled to a network interface that is capable of coupling with one or more networks or communications interfaces. The transceiver and the network interface may be operably coupled to a processor that can be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit data processing device or the like. The processor can execute programs applications or the like that may reside in program space . The programs can be developed in accordance with an application programming interface API layer that can be used to develop programs applications or the like. The program space can interface with data or any other resident programs in the memory such as an operating system or the like. The memory can include read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash memory cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications user preferences user identification information group identification information and other data. The local database can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk flash memory or the like. The platform in some exemplary embodiments components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as a wired or wireless or wired and wireless network interface connection display keyboard headset and other components as is known in the art.

It should be noted that the wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN as described herein and the access terminals such as the dispatch console and the network and other access terminals as described herein including in and can be carried out based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA orthogonal frequency division multiple access OFDMA the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and as known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Referring to an example is provided of an arrangement of an exemplary dispatch console DC AT communicating with wireless communication system elements in the context of for example wireless network . The carrier network can further be connected to various access terminals such as AT AT AT and AT . . . n. While shown separately the DC AT can be considered as a form of access terminal and more particularly can be a dispatch console for example as described herein above with reference to . The DC AT may communicate with an entity for conducting operations in accordance with exemplary embodiments such as application server AS shown in the figure as an arrangement of PTT Network components for example a call hosting function media cache function DC user state cache dispatch gateway and media forwarding function . Also while the call hosting function media cache function DC user state cache dispatch gateway and media forwarding function are each illustrated as structurally separate servers one or more of these servers may be consolidated in at least one embodiment of the invention. Referring to the DC AT may monitor direct calls such as a call between two calling parties an ad hoc call or a closed group call such as a call that potentially includes more than two calling parties. In the present embodiment a PTT application or client may reside on DC AT along with the dispatch gateway . It will be appreciated that during caching as described herein information can be stored with the cached content such as time stamp information or information regarding whether the cached information is new information such as information regarding a new call or information representing an update to cached information associated with an existing call or the like.

The DC AT can have special privileges for example the ability to monitor calls the ability to join multiple calls simultaneously and the ability to allow a user of DC AT to switch join leave multiple calls. The DC AT may be deployed at control rooms and other critical locations and can be operated by a user having for example a broad authority view of the PTT groups environment. Further the DC AT may also have a User Interface UI which can facilitate any of the above functions.

A recovery protocol utilized in one exemplary embodiment may be implemented in whole or part in hardware or software that resides for example on DC AT as well as the dispatch gateway . The dispatch gateway can detect when the DC AT enters a fault or failure state such as a software crash system restart or reboot power failure or the like and can execute a procedure a process an algorithm or the like that triggers the start of caching of for example call state information and in some embodiments other information such as the members of a call or group information or the like when it detects the irregular condition of DC AT .

Further the recovery protocol utilized between the DC AT and the dispatch gateway can prevent data loss that normally occurs when the DC AT enters the fault or failure state by restoring the DC AT and the UI back to the previous state such as the state prior to the fault or failure state by exchanging cached call state data. Further the user of the DC AT may also be able to restore the DC AT and the UI back to the previous state through operation of interface controls or other controls. The recovery protocol may also restore each of the dispatch calls that the DC AT was part of update DC AT call states for each call to reflect any changes that may have occurred while the DC AT was offline such as while in the fault or failure state update the user statuses of call members or users that are or were monitored by the DC AT during the previous state update the UI to remove call entries for any calls that may have ended while the DC AT was offline to seamlessly switch to another DC AT while carrying over all the call state information related to the DC User or other such remedial or restorative activity.

In one exemplary embodiment during the period while the DC AT is offline the dispatch gateway call hosting function media cache function DC user state cache and media forwarding function can provide recorded media or other media content such as streaming media content to the DC AT for each call. Thus the dispatch gateway can inform the call hosting function that the DC AT has entered a fault or failure state and provide an opportunity for any data associated with the DC AT to be cached by the DC user state cache and the media cache function . The call hosting function may then inform users such as AT AT AT AT . . . n that are associated with DC AT of the fault or failure state and the caching functions carried out for example by DC user state cache and the media cache function can begin. A recovery algorithm can be implemented for example on the DC AT that can use the DC AT user preferences a dispatch gateway recovery algorithm and cached call state information to arrive at a final state that can be presented to the UI of DC AT after recovery.

The DC AT and the dispatch gateway may use a keep alive protocol between each other that may enable the system to detect the health of the DC AT . Further a keep alive protocol can allow the DC AT to convey its current call state and other preferences to the dispatch gateway

The DC user state cache may be responsible for monitoring and cache calling all call state information for all calls that a DC AT is a part of or a predetermined set of calls which are marked as high priority or a set conveyed by the DC AT to the dispatch gateway using the keep alive protocol. The DC user state cache can be triggered by the DC AT entering the fault or failure state.

The DC user state cache can interact with the dispatch gateway to start and stop caching of session data for a particular DC AT . The DC user state cache can be responsible for deciding which call states to cache as well as which media sessions to record. The DC user state cache can work in conjunction with the call hosting function to keep all cached user state data updated. The DC user state cache can also interact with the media cache function and media forwarding function in order to record media. Further user state data can include a set of calls sessions for each DC AT that needs to be cached data representing exact call states for each of the calls sessions in the abovementioned set data representing the state of each of the users in each of the calls sessions and timestamps of when the caching started and when the data was last updated. It is further possible as will be appreciated for the caching of a rolling window of state and other information when no failure is detected such that restoration of the state prior to the failure can be more comprehensively provided. When the failure is detected caching can begin and would include contents prior to the failure. The amount of prior content would be determined based on factors such as the size of the window the storage capacity and the like.

The media cache function may be responsible for recording media for specific calls and can be controlled by the DC user state cache . The media cache function can be triggered by the DC AT entering the fault or failure state.

The persistent store may be used to store data that can also be stored in the DC user state cache and the media cache function . Further the persistent store can be used mainly for media types. For example if the DC AT was in a fault or failure state for more than five to six minutes then the media cache function B could perform checkpoints on intermediate data such that the persistent store could convert audio streams to audio files or multimedia streams to multimedia files. When the DC AT exits the fault or failure state the persistent store could send the DC AT media files to the DC AT . The DC AT has the option of playing back the stored media files in order to see what media data was missed while the DC AT was in the fault or failure state.

Referring to an exemplary recovery algorithm that can be implemented on the DC AT is illustrated. The recovery algorithm can use the DC AT user preferences the dispatch gateway recovery algorithm and cached call state information to arrive at a final UI state that is presented to the DC AT after recovery. After the start of the recovery algorithm at the DC AT sends out a query to the dispatch gateway asking for call state information by specifying a provisioned identity UID at . The dispatch gateway can then notify the DC AT if the dispatch gateway has call state information at . It should be noted that the dispatch gateway typically knows that the DC AT call connection did not end cleanly. If the dispatch gateway does not have call state information then the recovery algorithm can end at . However if the dispatch gateway does have call state information then the recovery algorithm proceeds to . The DC AT can then ask the user or can check the user preferences to see if the DC AT wants to recover the last state prior to the fault or failure state at . If the user preferences so indicate or if the user of the DC AT does not request or indicate a preference to recover to the last state then the recovery algorithm can end at . However if the user preferences so indicate or the user of the DC AT requests or indicates a preference to recover the last state then the recovery algorithm proceeds to where the recovery protocol between the DC AT and the dispatch gateway will begin. During the process of user recovery the dispatch gateway will further fetch the required call state information and pass it along to the DC AT at whereupon the previous state information will be recovered.

It should be noted that the DC AT may subsequently rejoin and recover all previous calls by restarting or rejoining running calls at . The DC AT may for example if calls are still active resynchronize with or for example if calls dropped replay streamed or stored media for active calls. Further instead of sending all media files to the DC AT the dispatch user state cache and the media cache function may send real time protocol RTP and real time streaming protocol RTSP port addresses that specify where the DC AT could obtain streaming recorded media from the gateway. Sending port addresses as described may reduce the amount of data overhead sent over the various networks. While the recover procedure is indicated as ending at it will be appreciated that the procedure can be repeated whenever there is a failure or similar event or when a state reset is necessary or desired.

Referring to an embodiment of an exemplary recovery call flow is illustrated where a call state is restored. In an exemplary scenario the application server may be communicating with a DC AT . The application server may include PTT Network components for example a call hosting function media cache function DC user state cache dispatch gateway and media forwarding function . While the call hosting function media cache function DC user state cache dispatch gateway and media forwarding function are each illustrated as structurally separate servers one or more of these servers may be consolidated in at least one embodiment of the invention.

After the DC AT initially boots up for example at the DC user state or states are requested from the dispatch gateway at . The dispatch gateway requests the states from the DC user state cache provided that the UID state was cached at . The DC user state cache then finds the state for the user in accordance with the specific UID at . The DC user state cache then sends the state data to the dispatch gateway at . The dispatch gateway can then send the user state metadata to the DC AT at . It should be noted that the metadata may represent or include information such as the number of calls timestamp information how long the data is to be cached and the like. The metadata can be coded or otherwise compressed as will be appreciated. By caching the state in connection with a UID it will be appreciated that a user of a dispatch console such as a call station manger or the like can switch to a new dispatch terminal to restore the call without effect provided the new dispatch terminal is equipped to make the proper connection to the network and the like.

The DC AT or the user of the DC AT may decide that restoration of the previous state is desired at . If the DC AT wants to restore the full state information the full state information can be requested including UID from the dispatch gateway at . The dispatch gateway then requests the full state information including UID from the DC user state cache at . The DC user state cache then requests media associated with the UID from the media cache function at . The media cache function then sends the cached media associated with the UID to the DC user state cache at . The DC user state cache then sends the full state data to the dispatch gateway at . The dispatch gateway can then send the full state data to the DC AT at .

It will be appreciated that after receiving the full state information the DC AT then sets up and rejoins calls based on the state data and user preferences at . The DC AT informs the dispatch gateway that the state has been restored at whereupon for example any caches associated with the states can be cleared. The dispatch gateway then requests the DC user state cache to delete state information associated with the UID at . The DC user state cache then requests the media cache function to delete user media associated with UID at .

Referring to an exemplary call flow is illustrated for changing and setting user preferences. Further the user preferences may allow the user of DC AT to monitor different parameters and to change priority levels of various calls. For example if the DC AT experiences a fault or failure state all of the callers such as AT AT AT AT . . . n may end the call. However the user preferences may be set such that when the DC AT leaves the fault or failure state the call can be restarted with some or all of the callers AT AT AT AT . . . n depending on the configuration. It will be further appreciated that the user preferences may be used in conjunction with the keep alive protocol in order to change user preferences. For example the keep alive protocol may used while the DC AT is functioning normally such that the DC AT user can click on a particular icon of the call to mark edit the user preferences or importance level of the users in the call. The user preferences information can be conveyed across the network via the keep alive protocol so that the rest of the network knows that the DC wants to track a certain call when the DC goes down. Alternatively the user preferences can be dynamically altered such that while the call is ongoing. For example the DC AT user can mark the preferences or priority levels of various calls to specify importance such that upon initialization the DC AT can send its rules to the dispatch gateway specifying the preferences or priority levels.

Accordingly the DC AT can send a keep alive packet including default DC user preferences to the dispatch gateway at . The dispatch gateway can send the default user preferences to the DC user state cache at . The DC AT and the dispatch gateway can send additional keep alive packets between each other at and . The DC user state cache may then decide that based on the user preferences one of the calls can be recorded in case of failure at . Thus the DC user state cache can send a record call X message to the media cache function at . Afterwards the media cache function can keep a rolling window record open until an actual fault or failure state is experienced by the DC AT at .

Subsequently the DC AT user may mark a specific call as important at . Accordingly the DC AT can send additional keep alive packet and additional DC user preferences to the dispatch gateway at . The dispatch gateway can send the additional user preferences to the DC user state cache at . Accordingly based upon the additional user preferences the DC user state cache may decide to record the marked call as well at . Thus the DC user state cache can send a record call Y message to the media cache function at . Afterwards the media cache function can keep a rolling window record open until an actual fault or failure state is experienced by the DC AT at .

The DC AT and the dispatch gateway can send additional keep alive packets between each other at and . The dispatch gateway can detect a fault or failure state experienced by the DC AT at . The dispatch gateway can send a message to the DC user state cache at notifying that a fault has been detected. The DC user state cache can then send a fault detected message to the media cache function at . Subsequently the media cache function can start full caching of media for any calls previously marked in the user preferences at .

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer.

Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

