---

title: Knowledge discovery system with user interactive analysis view for analyzing and generating relationships
abstract: A knowledge model discovery system is configured to provide an interactive view having simultaneously displayed sub-views that include a relational data element view and a geophysical view. Using the interactive view, a user may perform search and analysis of information organized with a knowledge management tool in conjunction with geographic information. The relational data element view may provide a relational visualization that displays data elements provided with the knowledge management tool as narrowed by the context of a user analysis. The geophysical view may provide a geographically based depiction of the same data elements using a similar context. The relational data element view and the geophysical view may be operated in coordination to maintain cohesiveness and similar context of the information displayed in the views.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07953687&OS=07953687&RS=07953687
owner: Accenture Global Services Limited
number: 07953687
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20100726
---
The present application is a continuing application of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 598 292 filed Nov. 13 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 765 176.

The present invention relates to a data search access and manipulation system and more particularly to a geographic and relational data search tool that provides a visually based context to categorize organize and interactively analyze search results for relationship and knowledge discovery.

Data storage in a database and access therefrom is a common theme in most digital data access and storage systems. With today s hardware capabilities the size and complexity of databases and the amount of data stored therein is almost unlimited. With the number and size of databases available researchers face a daunting task when performing searches related to a particular topic or subject matter. These difficulties are further compounded with data from the public domain Internet public databases Web services etc. that all contribute to a large haystack within which a researcher must find a needle. 

In addition because information is distributed among a large number of resources a researcher is faced with the prospect of running queries in a number of databases on each subject matter or topic of interest. When additional subject matter related to the subject matter or topic of interest is found in one of the databases a researcher must once again query many different databases with the additional subject matter.

For any given query the researcher also may be faced with sifling through potentially thousands of documents in order to determine the relevancy of the query results. When the researcher is also interested in physical geographic locations related to subject matter or topic of interest separate or combined geographically based queries must be initiated in each of a number of databases with the query result again being up to thousands of documents that must be individually reviewed for relevancy. As relevant documents are identified the researcher is also faced with organizing the documents or information contained therein to provide visually coherent results of the research that reflect the relationships between the various identified sources of information. Also the researcher may need to remember the series of queries and other steps that were performed to find the relevant information for purposes of recreating the results or performing a similar research project on a different topic.

The presently described knowledge discovery system provides search and analysis capability to access information from any number of data sources. In addition the system enables organized and efficient display manipulation and analysis of information within a context of a search or analysis. The system includes a plurality of views that are cohesively associated to maintain coordination and alignment of the views. Through selective manipulation of the information in any one of the views previously unidentified relationships and associations within the displayed information may be identified and or established.

The knowledge discovery system is configured to provide an interactive view that includes a plurality of sub views at the same time. One of the sub views is a relational data element view. The relational data element view may display a plurality of data element indicia representative of data elements and a plurality of relationship indicia representative of relationships between at least some of the data elements. The data elements may be information derived from various sources that are organized and maintained in at least one database. The interactive view also includes a sub view that is a geophysical view. The geophysical view may include a geographic map with at least some of the data element indicia depicted in the relational data element view displayed thereon.

The relational data element view and the geophysical view may each be monitored for adjustments to the displayed information. The information included in the sub views may be adjusted by drag and drop mouse clicks menus command entry or any other mechanism. Also filtering layer changes and any other data organization techniques may be used to adjust the sub views. When an adjustment occurs in one sub view a corresponding adjustment may occur automatically in another of the sub views. All of the sub views may be maintained in alignment based on data element identifiers DEID s that are uniquely assigned to each data element.

Relationships may also be automatically or manually established between the data elements. Establishment of relationships may be based on a confidence value representative of the reliability of a link between the data elements. Confidence values may also indicate the reliability of a data element. Confidence values may be calculated based on factors related to the data element s . Using the relational data element view and the geophysical view previously unknown relationships between data elements may be identified.

These implied relationships may be associated with the data elements and indicated when the data element indicia representative of the data elements are displayed. Using the sub views that depict the data element indicia relationships and categorization of the data elements a more focused and relevant result may be obtained. In addition the interactive and coordinated adjustment of the sub views allow the context of the analysis to be filtered modified and or changed based on adjustments to the displayed information to achieve the desired goal s of the analysis.

Further objects and advantages of the present invention will be apparent from the following description reference being made to the accompanying drawings wherein preferred embodiments of the present invention are clearly shown.

The server may be any form of computing device s capable of receiving requests and transmitting responses over the network . In addition the server may be capable of performing the functionality hereinafter described. The server may include a network interface a processor a user interface and a memory . The network interface is coupled with the network and may be any combination of hardware and software that interfaces with and enables communication over the network . For example the network interface may be a NIC card operable with TC PIP or a modem. The processor may be any device s or mechanism s capable of executing instructions receiving inputs and generating outputs such as a central processing unit CPU . The processor may direct the operation and provide the overall functionality of the server . The processor is coupled with the network interface and may transmit and receive communication over the network . As used herein the term coupled connected or interconnected may mean electrically coupled optically coupled wirelessly coupled and or any other form of association providing an interface between systems devices and or components.

The user interface may include a display such as a graphical user interface GUI and an input device such as a keyboard touch screen or microphone. In addition the user interface may include a pointing device such as a mouse or stylus and or any other device s or mechanism s that provide a user with the capability to provide to the processor and or receive from the processor information and or commands.

The memory may be one or more information storage devices accessible with the processor . The memory may be at least one magnetic data storage device such as a hard drive an optical disk a magnetic tape etc. and or at least one electronic memory device such as flash memory random access memory RAM etc. The memory may be located within the server . Alternatively the memory may be located anywhere that allows communication with the server over the network . In another alternative a portion of the memory may be located within the server computer and other portion s of the memory may be located elsewhere within the network .

The memory may include applications a geographic database and a data elements database . In other examples the geographic database and the data elements database may be a single database or multiple databases. The applications may include an operating system to provide the operational functionality of the server communication applications database related applications and any other software and or firmware programs to provide the functionality described herein. The applications may be stored in the memory in the form of instructions that are executable with the processor .

The geographic database may include geographic data stored in a database format such as a relational database or any other structured format such as XML proprietary data storage systems commercially available data storage systems etc. The geographic data may include geographical map data that includes latitude and longitude data for any location in the world. In addition the geographical data may include topographical and point of interest POT data for each location in the world. Topographical data may include buildings roads bridges oceans rivers lakes mountains forests deserts valleys and or any other landmarks or structures. P01 data may include country names region names city names area names street names identification of landmarks and any other information relevant to a particular location. The contents of the geographic data may be similar to the data included in a map routing tool such as a vehicle navigation system or mapquest.com.

The data elements database may include data elements and related information in the form of a database. The data elements may be terms or other forms of information derived from documents or any other source of information. Each of the data elements may be stored in the data element database in association with a link or some other form of indicator providing the source from which the data elements were derived.

The data elements database that includes the data elements may be created with a knowledge management tool. Example knowledge management tools are described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 564 209 issued May 13 2003 U.S. Pat. No. 6 721 726 issued Apr. 13 2004 U.S. Pat. No. 6 727 927 issued Apr. 27 2004 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 900 807 issued May 31 2005 all of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety. The knowledge management tool may extract data from various sources using an intelligent extraction process. In the intelligent extraction process the data elements are derived and stored in the database. The data elements may be derived from terms in the source information by extracting cleansing and prioritizing the terms to comply with a particular ontology. Extracting terms may involve data mining text processing text mining and or any other techniques for identifying desired terms in sources of information. For example the intelligent extraction process may find a document that discusses a particular drug thus the data element may be the name of the particular drug. In addition to identifying the source from which the data elements were derived the intelligent extraction process may also automatically assign one or more categories to each of the data elements. The category s may provide an indication of the context in which the data elements were used in the source document. For example a document that discusses a drug may discuss use of the drug to combat bird flu thus one category associated with this data element may be bird flu.

The intelligent extraction process may also identify relationships between data elements and automatically provide corresponding links. For example if two documents from which data elements were derived included a common author or common subject matter a relationship may be identified between the data elements automatically with the intelligent extraction process. Such relationships may be subject matter related location related author related and or based on any other form of commonality between data elements and or the sources from which the data elements were derived. Commonality perceived by the intelligent extraction process between the data elements and or sources may result in the automated generation and storage of a data link indicative of a relationship between data elements. Accordingly ontology formed with the data element database may be a network of relationships that are self describing and may be used to track how items or words relate to one another. For example a lives at link or works for link in the database could be used to track these types of relationships and their corresponding values for listed individuals.

The resulting ontology formed with the data elements categories and links provides a database of data elements that allow users access to any number of separate sources as if the data resided in one vast all encompassing database. Also because of the category assignments a user can narrow the search to data elements within a particular category. For example searching for the term green could be significantly narrowed by identifying a category such as person. In addition the links created by the intelligent extraction process to indicate relationships between data elements may provide additional information related to the searched term. For example if a search is made for a particular person the results may not only include a data element representative of the person but also other categories of data element s related to the person s work finances interests clients associates business projects etc. depending on the other data elements linked to the person s data element within the database.

The data elements included in the data element database may each be associated with a unique data element identifier DEID . The DEID may be assigned at the time the data element is created and may uniquely identify the corresponding data element throughout the knowledge discovery system . The DEID may also be present in the geographic database to associate the data elements with geographically related information. Accordingly separate non redundant information associated with each data element may be included in both the data element database and the geographic database based on the DEID. Thus when updates modifications additions etc. are made with respect to a particular data element based on the DEID information in either database may be modified. In other examples the data element database and the geographic database may be combined to form a single database.

The user workstation may be any form of computing device s with data viewing data modification and data manipulation capability that is also able to communicate over the network . The user workstation includes a network interface a processor a user interface and a memory . Similar to the server the network interface may provide access to send and receive information over the network and the processor may be any device or mechanism capable of executing instructions as previously discussed. The processor may direct the overall operation and functionality of the user work station .

The user interface may provide a visual and or auditory mechanism to exchange information and commands between a user and the user work station . Accordingly the user interface may include at least one display such as a graphical user interface GUI . The display may also include touch screen capability to operate as both an output device and an input device. The user interface may also include an input output . The input output may include a pointing device such as a mouse or stylus a microphone speaker to transmit and receive audible sound such as voice commands a keyboard and or any other mechanism capable of sending and receiving commands and information.

The memory is similar to the memory of the server in that the memory may be any mechanism or device capable of storing and providing access to information as previously discussed. The memory may include data applications and a browser . The data may include any information stored by a user as well as operations and results information as described herein. The applications may include the operating system for the user workstation communications and any other functionality that can be made available in a workstation.

The browser may be any from of application such as Netscape or Internet Explorer used to view and interact with various types of resources available over the network . The browser may facilitate the display of pages or files received from the network . In one example the browser may receive an interactive view provided as a portal from the server . The interactive view may be displayed on the display by the browser . The user may interact with the interactive view via the browser using the input output . In other examples where the system is not a web or portal based system the browser may be omitted.

During operation the user workstation may use the interactive view to commission a search within the knowledge discovery system. The search may be a deductive analysis having a known objective or an inductive analysis having an unknown objective. Using tools within the knowledge discovery system that are accessible via the interactive view the user may characterize or otherwise add context to the terms included in a search. The search and associated context may be provided over the network to the server . The server may extract information from the data elements database and the geographic data database based on the search terms and the context. The extracted information may be transmitted over the network to the user workstation .

The interactive view may include a first view to display the information extracted from the data element database . The first view may also be referred to as a relational data element view. In network based infrastructures the first view may be a first portlet within the interactive view that is a portal. The first view may be a link based view that displays a plurality of data element indicia representative of respective data elements and relationship indicia representative of relationships between at least some of the data elements. The interactive view may also include a second view that may be a map based view that displays information extracted from the geographic database . The second view may also be referred to as a geophysical view. In network based infrastructures the second view may be a second portlet within the interactive view that is a portal. The second view may display at least some of the data element indicia displayed in the first view in a geographic context in association with other data element indicia that are not displayed in the first view.

Display of data element indicia representative of the same data element in both the first and second views may be accomplished using the DEID of the data element. Information needed to represent the data element in each of the views may be retrieved from the geographic database and the data element database based on the DEID of the data element. Based on the combination of the link based first view and the map based second view of a plurality of data element indicia a user may uncover derivative or hidden relationships among the displayed data elements based on the concept of six degrees of separation. The term six degrees of separation or six links rule refers to a hypothesis that anyone or anything can be connected to any other respective person or thing through a chain of acquaintances or relationships that includes no more than five intermediaries. For example terms in a dictionary that include a see also link will provide a link to any other term in the dictionary that includes a see also link within six or less such links. Based on the DEID data requests changes modifications additions etc. related to the information associated with a particular data element may be seamlessly allocated to the appropriate database.

The scheduler module may operate to receive and process requests received over the network . In addition the scheduler module may receive responses to requests and provide them over the network . Accordingly the scheduler module may provide coordination and scheduling of received requests and responses. Also the scheduler module may provide request and response conversion functionality to conform requests and responses to a format and language that is compatible with the ultimate recipient of the request or response.

The data elements module may provide management of the data element database such as database access and manipulation capability. In addition the data elements module may enable the addition and amendment of information in the data element data base such as data elements and information related thereto. Also the data elements module may generate responses to requests using data extracted from the data elements database. The geographic data module may provide management of the geographic data database. Management may include read write capability as well as the ability to generate responses to requests. During operation requests may be supplied to the data elements module and or the geographic data module to generate views on the user workstation . The responses generated by the data elements module and or the geographic data module may be provided as displayable information related to the respective data. Requests and responses may include the DEIDs of the data elements.

The confidence module may generate one or more confidence values related to a relationship between data elements stored in the database. The confidence value or link strength between data elements may be generated by the confidence module in response to a user request. The confidence value may be an indication of the relative strength of the association or relationship between two or more data elements. Alternatively or in addition the confidence value may be derived to indicate the relative strength of a corresponding data element in one or more different contexts or ontologies. Alternatively or in addition the confidence module may be enabled to determine confidence values at the time data elements are formed.

Thus the confidence value relative to a single data element may be representative of the veracity or reliability of the corresponding data element. Since a data element may be highly reliable in one regard and less reliable in another multiple confidence values may be available determined for a data element. The different confidence values may be selectively determined based on the context in which the data element is used. For example a data element related to a person may have a high confidence value due to the source from which the data element was derived but may have a lower confidence value related to a geographic location of the person due to the age of the source such as the date of a document source.

Determination of the confidence values may be based on any factors related to the data elements such as the nature of the source from which the data elements were derived the author or publisher of the source the degree of similarity in the context of the sources the number of occurrences of terms from which a data element was derived occurrences of the data elements in the database geographic locality relationships of the data elements productivity of data mining algorithms or any other parameters indicative of the likelihood that a relationship exists between data elements or the reliability of the data elements.

The confidence module may also apply weighting to certain information dependent on the ontology or context in which the relationship is being considered. Such weighting may be applied to the sources from which data elements are derived geographic location information existing relationships between data elements and or any other factors considered in developing the confidence value of a relationship or data element. For example if a relationship in the context of a search related to geographic location of two data elements is being determined the geographic location information would be weighted more heavily. In another example determination of the confidence value for a relationship between two data elements related to a search subject involving family lineage of a certain person would weight existing relationships between data elements more heavily.

The data source also may be weighted. The weighing may be based on the authority from which the information was obtained in an example of searching for occurrences of a health diagnosis such as small pox classes of data sources such as government issued reports hospital records designated health organization reports such as those produced by the World Health Organization WHO could be assigned varying predetermined weightings. Such weightings could be applied to determine a confidence value for data element s derived from the source s .

The confidence value s may be used in the knowledge discovery system to allow the ordering and reasoning of links that are automatically accomplished by the previously discussed knowledge management tool or manually established by a user. The confidence value s calculated for any given link or data element may allow filtering of search results and relevant transitive reasoning to include in the search results only links and or data elements with a determined level of confidence.

The confidence module also may be operated to determine confidence values at the time a search is being performed. Thus relationships between data elements may be considered by the confidence module and confidence values may be determined in the context of the category or classification of the search and the search terms used therein. Using the confidence values in the context or classification of the search being performed the search results may be made relevant to the frame of reference of the search independent of confidence values determined in other ontologies and or classifications. Confidence values may also be determined at the time data elements are being derived or any other time when confidence values may be used. Accordingly confidence values may be used to filter or otherwise characterize and or focus the search result.

In one example relationship strength or link strength between data elements may be based on a sliding scale such as with confidence values from 1.0 to 0.0. The maximum confidence value in the sliding scale such as 1.0 may be representative of absolute certainty in a relationship between data elements. For example a relationship between a data element that is a chemical and a data element that is a physical or chemical property of that chemical may have the maximum confidence value. In other examples any other criteria may be used to represent varying relationship strengths among data elements.

In this example in order to determine the link strength between two data elements or entities one or more different confidence values may be used. Where more than one different confidence value can be determined the confidence values may be separately derived and then combined or one confidence value may be the result of combined information from different data sources. Alternatively the confidence values may be maintained determined in various categories based on the type of data elements the classification the ontology the nature of the search or any other parameter.

A first example of a type of confidence value that may be determined is one that can be based on the source from which a data element was derived. Accordingly consideration of the quality of the source from which the data element was derived may result in a confidence value. For example when the source is a document source the quality of the source may be based on who wrote the document the reliability and accuracy of the author the reliability and accuracy of the publisher or any other parameter indicative of the veracity of the document or other source. In one example the following table may be used to derive a value for the first confidence value based on the source 

A second example type of confidence value determination may be based on consideration of nearness of two or more data elements and a determination of a confidence of the link therebetween. Nearness may be based on semantic nearness and or geographic location nearness.

In the case of geographic nearness the geographic location information associated with data elements may be considered. The geographic nearness may be based on a geographic nearness threshold value such as a predetermined number of meters or kilometers. The geographic nearness threshold value may be set by a user or automatically determined based on context or predetermined rules. In addition geographic nearness may stem from a contextual understanding of what the user or knowledge discovery system considers to be near. Two cities may be near each other in the context of travel via airplane but far from each other in the context of travel by automobile. Thus the definition of nearness may be a tunable settable parameter by the knowledge confidence system to obtain a corresponding confidence value within a particular context.

Geographic nearness also may include geographic locations that are not physically located proximate to each other but are closely associated due to relationships between the cities in the context of the analysis. In other words it is not just latitude and longitude that can provide geographic nearness but also that two geographic locations are closely linked with relationships. For example the United States and Israel may not be geographically proximate but may be exhibit geographic nearness due to relationships between the two countries in a political context. In another example within a political context 1600 Pennsylvania Street in Washington D.C and 10 Downing Street in the United Kingdom although far apart in geographic location may include an indication of geographic nearness.

In the case of semantic nearness a confidence value may be determined based on the proximity of the information within a source from which the respective data elements were derived. In the example of a document source the confidence value for semantic nearness could be based on consideration of the respective location within the document of the respective terms from which the respective data elements were derived. The further apart the respective terms appear within a source the lower the confidence value. A confidence value based on proximity of terms in a source may be calculated without any regard for the size of the source such as the number of words in a document. Although this may skew the results slightly the approximation may be acceptable. Alternatively the size of the source may be a consideration in determining a confidence value based on semantic nearness.

If there are multiple occurrences of the respective terms used to derive 20 the respective data elements within a single source the occurrences of the terms closest to the beginning of the source may be used to calculate the confidence value based on semantic nearness. The determination of the distance from the beginning of the source may be based on the number of characters or the number of words. In another example involving multiple terms the smallest number of terms between terms of interest may be used to determine a confidence value. For example in a document source if the data elements are dog and cat and the term dog appears at an offset of 100 words and again at 1 000 words from the beginning of the document and the term cat appears at an offset of 300 words and again at an offset of 1 500 words from the beginning of the document the difference of 200 words the smaller number of words between the first occurrence of dog and the first occurrence of cat may be used to determine the confidence value.

When the number of characters of offset is less than a determined maximum offset range the calculation of the second confidence value may be 

Another classification technique that may be used to determine a confidence value when there are multiple terms in a source is related to the number of terms within the source such as a document. When multiple terms of interest exist a proximity calculation that involves all occurrences of all the terms and the offset from the beginning of the document may be used. For example if the data elements are dog and cat and the term dog appears at an offset of 100 words and again at 1 000 words from the beginning of the document and the term cat appears at an offset of 300 words and again at an offset of 1 500 words from the beginning of the document the offset values would be 100 300 1000 and 1500. Based on the length of the document these distances may used to determine relative distances. The relative distances may be combined using an equation similar to Equation 2 or transitively across links to determine a confidence value.

If the terms used to derive respective data elements are present in multiple sources the confidence value determined for each of the sources may be used to determine a combined confidence value related to both data elements. In one example the combined confidence value may be obtained by merging the confidence values from the different sources. By merging the confidence values for the same terms in various sources the combined confidence value representative of data elements in multiple sources may be greater than the confidence value of any data elements individually. For example if Cn is the confidence of data elements in the n th document source then C the confidence of two terms being related may be expressed as 1 1 1 12 . . . 1 Equation 2

Confidence values determined based on the source geographic nearness 10 and or semantic nearness as well as any other confidence values may be combined logically to provide a confidence value for a particular link associated with data elements derived from a particular source. The logical combination may be any form of derivation providing an indication of confidence such as various logarithmic and or probabilistic distributions. In one example the logical combination may be a simple mathematical formula in which the first confidence factor is multiplied by the second confidence factor to arrive at a confidence value for the link or data element. The data element confidence factor of a link or data element may be used as a threshold to determine whether the link is valid to determine the trustworthiness of a link data element and or for any other purpose.

Implied relationships between data elements can also be established with transitive reasoning and consideration of the confidence value s . With transitive reasoning implied relationships may be established between data elements based on parallel associations or relationships with other data elements. For example a first data element may have a relationship with a second data element. A third data element may also have a relationship with the second data element. Depending on the nature of the relationships transitive reasoning may be applied to establish an implied relationship between the first data element and the third data element.

Additional information may also be implied based on relationships between data elements. For example a first data element may already have a relationship with a second data element however only the first data element may include a geographic location. Based on both transitive reasoning and the existing relationship an implied geographic location may be added for the second data element.

Factors may be used to determine whether two data elements associated 5 through one or more other data elements are related. The factors may include the validity of the existing relationship s based on the ontology or classification in which the association is made the confidence of the links that lead to the implied association made with transitive reasoning or any other factors that provide an indication of relatedness between data elements. As previously discussed the ontology and classification is initially performed with the knowledge management tool. Thus confidence values may be used when the data element database is being populated and links are being created in an automated fashion to also automatically create implied links. In addition confidence values may be used when a link either implied or direct is manually added by a user.

Application of confidence values to determine if a transitive relationship should be established between data elements may be accomplished in many ways. In one example with respect to the confidence of the links between data elements the confidence value of relationships between associated data elements may be used as a factor to determine a confidence value for a proposed relationship. Only when the confidence value s for a proposed relationship exceeds a determined threshold may an implied relationship be established.

For example a first data element TI a second data element T and a third data element T may be included in an example database. In this example data element TI may be related to data element T with a confidence value of 0.82 and data element T may be related to data element T with a confidence value of 0.71. Based on these confidence values a confidence of the relationship between data element TI and data element T may be 0.82 0.71 0.58. To be considered a valid relationship the value of confidence may be designated to be above a determined threshold such as greater than 0.4.

Transitive associations made through more than two links or associations of data elements may be calculated similarly. For example if data element T is related to data element T with a confidence of 0.50 then the relationship from data element TI through data elements T and T to data element T may have a confidence rating of 0.58 0.50 0.35. If the confidence value is below the determined threshold the link may be determined to not be a valid link. Alternatively or in addition links may be classified and stored in a number of categories based on the confidence value of the link.

If there are multiple relationship paths to reach a data element transitively then a similar calculation to Equation 2 may be used. For example if a link between data element Ti and data element T has a confidence rating of 10 0.58 through data elements T and TI and a link between data element TI and data element T has a confidence rating of 0.38 through data element T then the link between data element Ti and data element T may have a total confidence rating of C 1 1 0.58 1 0.38 0.74. Note for example that if the threshold confidence level need to be 0.4 in order to consider a relationship valid the link between data element Ti and data element T would be a valid relationship even though the relationship would not be valid if only the confidence value of the relationship between data element TI and data element T through data element T were considered because 0.38 is lower than 0.40 . As previously discussed when multiple relationships are considered the confidence value of the link between data elements may increase due to the compounding effect of the relationships.

Confidence values may also be used as a filter to eliminate information. For example if a user is involved in an analysis that includes too much information the confidence value may be raised to eliminate some portion of the data having lower confidence values leaving only information with a higher confidence value associated therewith. If on the other hand not enough information is being provided the confidence value may be lowered to allow information with lower confidence values to be included in the analysis. In one example a confidence threshold adjustment such as a slider or a value entry may be displayed upon request as a pop up view. The user may adjust the confidence threshold to adjust the information currently being viewed. For example where users want to represent a conservative versus more liberal understanding of a search result the user may choose to limit the information to include only higher confidence information so as to present a higher likelihood of a more factual representation of the data and relationships. As the confidence threshold is lowered more opportunities for analysis and potential distractions may appear.

Referring again to the relationship builder module enables the establishment of new actual or implied relationships between data elements. As previously discussed a relational data element view and a geophysical view may display data element indicia at least some of which indicate relationships therebetween. Due to the interactive nature and duplicative display of data element indicia in a different context in each of the views previously unrealized relationships may become apparent. Such previously unrecognized relationships may be added with the relationship builder module .

The relationship builder module may include an automated builder component and a manual builder component. The automated builder component may automatically perform assessments of the corresponding data element indicia within the different views and identify potential relationships. The relationship builder module may also perform automated analysis of such an identified potential relationship to determine if a relationship truly exists. Such automated analysis may include initiating analysis and obtaining confidence values from the confidence module analysis of geographic location relationship s through other data elements where relationships already exist etc. In addition the automated generation of links may be based on the geographic nearness semantic nearness text mining data mining or any other technique that allows automated recognition of the relationships between information that had not been previously identified.

Potential relationships may be evaluated based on determined criteria such as user entered parameters thresholds etc. When the relationship builder module identifies a potential relationship the potential relationship may be brought to the attention of a user for approval. Alternatively the relationship may be created automatically. Such automatically created relationships may be distinctly identified as automatically created with a visual indication and or within the details associated with the relationship. However the relationship is created relationship indicia indicative of the relationship may be depicted in the relational data element view. In addition information may be transmitted to the data element database that is indicative of the relationship and any data associated therewith.

The manual builder component of the relationship builder module may allow a user to create a relationship between data elements using text based linking of the data elements. Such text based manual linking may also be created between a newly created data element and existing data elements. A user may choose to create such a relationship based on information obtained outside the knowledge discovery system human intuition analysis of the views or any other factors. A user may also manually deploy the confidence module to obtain confidence values and or manually initialize the automated builder component to evaluate identified data elements for a potential relationship.

When the manual builder component is enabled a user may create such a relationship manually by identifying in any one of the views the corresponding data element indicia between which a relationship is desired to be established. Identification of the data element indicia may be by selection of the data element indicia with a pointing device or via touch screen. Alternatively the relationship may be identified by data entry linking the corresponding data elements in a table or any other mechanism for indicating a relationship between data elements.

Upon manual identification of a relationship via a text based indication the relationship may be visually indicated in one or more of the views. In addition the relationship and related information may be stored in the data element database . Such manually created text based relationships may be distinctly identified visually in the views and or in related data. Also the confidence module is enabled to perform analysis and automatically generate confidence values related to the newly created relationship.

The relationship builder module may also cooperatively operate with the data element module in the server in order to enable the manual addition of new data elements to the data element database and to establish relationships with other existing or new data elements. In addition information related to a relationship or more generally a data element may be added to the data element database with the relationship builder module .

The model module may be enabled to perform additional analysis of the displayed views based on modeling parameters. Modeling parameters may include geophysical based modeling and or relational based modeling. Such modeling may be used to predict changes in relationships between data elements geographic locations changes etc. For example a user may desire to model various aspects of the effects of ocean currents on sea animal migration by adding various currents in various locations on the geophysical view and viewing the changes in automatically created relationships among the sea animals as identified with the relationship builder module in the relational data element view. In another example a user may want to model a relationship between data element indicia representative of the sea animals in the relational data element view to determine the effect on the geographic location of the sea animals in the geophysical view.

Referring still to the functionality of the user workstation includes a multiple visualization integration engine a display driver and an export module . In other examples fewer or greater numbers of modules may be depicted to describe the functionality herein described.

The display driver may be any form of functionality configured to drive a display to display the interactive view and the various sub views included therein. In one example the display driver may also include touch screen driver functionality. The multiple visualization integration engine may be interfaced with the display driver to provide display information thereto. The multiple visualization integration engine may also receive user inputs via the display driver such as mouse related inputs touch screen inputs etc.

The multiple visualization integration engine may provide 30 interactive functionality of the various views in the interactive viewer. Thus the overall functionality of the interactive view may be governed by the multiple visualization integration engine . In addition the multiple visualization integration engine may provide cohesive interactivity among the views and reconciliation of the various views as adjustments manipulations and or changes occur in any of the views. Cohesive interactivity among the views that involve the data elements may be based on the DEIDs associated with the data elements the data element indicia or any other mechanism for importing exporting and or manipulating information to selectively maintain alignment of displayed information among the various views. The multiple visualization integration engine also may interface with the scheduler module via the network .

Communication with the scheduler module may be in the form of requests transmitted from the multiple visualization integration engine and responses transmitted from the scheduler module . The requests and responses may be data audio video and or any other form of information. Requests may include search requests requests for updated views requests for additional data related to the data element indicia displayed in the view s data retrieval requests data storage requests etc. Responses to the requests may include display data view correlation coordination information data element related information geographic information relationship information etc.

The multiple visualization integration engine may also interface with the export module . The export module may provide an interface to one or more other devices to which information such as display information data element information view cohesion information or any other information may be exported. In addition requests may be received by the export module . The requests may be based on user inputs to retrieve information from the databases to adjust information presented to a user for example. Information may be accessed from any of the databases in the knowledge discovery system based on the DEIDs. In addition requests to update modify add or delete information related to a data element may also be received in a request and routed to the appropriate database based on the DEIDs and the information that is affected.

The export module may operate with a push based model such as that based on a subscription from a device s that is a receiver of the information and or with a pull based model such as that based on a request received from a device s that is a receiver of information.

Examples of view tools include a relationship context tool a geophysical tool a search tool a layer tool a history tool a menu tool a project storage tool a related topics tool a detail tool and a filter tool . In other examples any other form of view tools providing interactive view based functionality may be included in the multiple visualization integration engine .

The relationship context tool may govern and direct operation of the relational data element view. Accordingly the relationship context tool may display data element indicia and relationship indicia. In addition the relationship context tool may enable and direct interactive adjustment of the relational data element view by a user. Interactive adjustment of the relational data element view may include use of the DEIDs associated with the data elements.

For example the interactive view includes an example of a relational data element view governed by the relationship context tool . The relational data element view may display a plurality of data element indicium representative of data elements. The relational data element view may also include a plurality of relationship indicium representative of relationships between data elements. In addition the relational data element view may include one of the data element indicia as a focus data element indicia . The focus data element indicia may be representative of a data element that is a focus of a search or analysis undertaken by a user and the rest of the displayed data element indicium and relationship indicium may be related thereto and form a context.

During operation when a user performs a search and selects a data element from the search the selected data element may be displayed as the focus data element indicia in the relational data element view . Other data element indicia related to the selected data element may also be displayed along with relationship indicia indicating relationships. The relationship context tool is responsive to user inputs to adjust the relational data element view provide additional information related to the displayed data element indicia and or change the displayed data element indicia . For example a user can select another of the data element indicium to be the focus data element indicium and the relationship context tool may adjust the display accordingly.

Referring again to the geophysical context tool may direct population and interactive functionality related to the geophysical view. Thus a geographical map and data element indicia associated therewith may be monitored governed and directed by the geophysical context tool . Similar to the relationship context tool interactive adjustment of the geophysical view may include use of the DEID s associated with the data elements.

In an example of a geophysical view is depicted in the same interactive view with the relational data element view . The geophysical context driver may drive the geophysical view to display a geographic map and at least some of the data element indicia displayed in the relational data element view . The geophysical view also may include relationship indicia and the focus data element indicia . Alternatively driving the display to include the relationship indicium and the focus data element indicia may be omitted. Whatever the display details of the geophysical view correspondence between at least some aspects of the relational data element view and the geophysical view may be cohesively maintained as the user manipulates adjusts and changes sub views included in the interactive view . The correspondence of the different views may be maintained based at least in part on the DEIDs.

Referring once again to the search tool may be any tool capable of searching for information based on search parameters provided by a user. For example the search tool may include search functionality to search the data elements database the geographical database and or any other sources within the knowledge discovery system and present results indicative of data elements. Such data elements may be selected for display in the relational data element view and or the geophysical view. In addition data elements identified with the search tool may be selected for display with the other tools in the multiple visualization integration engine .

The layer tool illustrated in may provide a layer functionality for the views generated with the relationship context tool the geophysical context tool or any other view displayable with a respective tool. The layers may be selectively arranged by a user with the layer tool to further characterize the displayed information in one or more of the views. Available layers may be listed in a layer view included in the interactive view or may be accessed via some form of a pop up view as illustrated in the example of . In addition the layers may be selectively arranged to provide further search information discovery and insight capability. The addition and subtraction of layers may add information to one or more views and subtract information from one or more of the views. For example a geophysical view may include layers of map data based on geocoded categories so that geographic features in a view may be added and removed by adding and removing layers.

Criteria to develop new layers also may be formulated manually by a user with the layer tool . For example a user may select items within a particular view and enter a command to identify the selected items as part of a new or existing layer. Alternatively or in addition all of the items in a particular view may be commanded by a user to be identified as a layer. Such commands may be entered by mouse click selected from a menu and or any other mechanism.

In addition data element indicia may be separated into layers based on category source relationships and or any other criteria to allow selective addition and removal of groups of data element indicia by a user from any one or more of the views. Further the layer tool may include layers of information related to the displayed data element indicia so that data element indicia may be displayed with varying amounts of related information dependent on the layers selected to be displayed. For example an abbreviated title of a data element indicia may be included in a first layer a fully descriptive title may be included in a second layer and a source from which the data element indicia was derived may be included in a third layer. Accordingly the layer tool may provide a capability to visually filter information based on a context or semantics related to groups within the displayed information as well as provide only that information that is desired.

In the history tool may be any recording functionality capable of storing activities performed in any one of the various views. Accordingly the history tool may provide a navigation history of how certain visual depictions were arrived at in one or more of the views. Storage of information collected by the history tool may be in the memory of the server and or the user workstation. The information stored with the history tool may include search queries drag and drop of information among the various views change of layers changes in focus changes in relationships menu selections and or any other information related to manipulating information to arrive at particular views. Accordingly a user may use a trail of bread crumbs approach to recreate movements actions for purposes of recreating a particular result training etc.

The history tool may operate a history view within the interactive view as illustrated in . The history view may be a view within the interactive view or may be a pop up as illustrated. Using the history view the history tool may also allow a user to browse previous displayed geophysical views relational data element views search results track progression of relationship linkages etc. Accordingly selection of history may automatically adjust one or more other views to reflect the selected history.

The menu tool of may provide the capability to select various tools for browsing viewing navigation history search creating relations adjusting settings changing views etc. as described herein. For example the menu tool may include a back selection functionality to revert to a previous view s . In addition the menu tool may provide any other menu based functionality useable to administer and operate the various capabilities of the knowledge discovery tool as described herein and any other computer related menu based functionality. The menu tool may operate a menu view such as the example menu view illustrated in . The menu tool also may include view selection capability such that different menus may be available for different views. Thus selection of a particular view by mouse click etc. may generate adjustment of the menu view to display a menu that corresponds to the selected view.

In the project storage tool may provide the capability to display a listing or some other representation of various scopes of work undertaken by a user in a project storage view . The list may depict a plurality of folders and subfolders that may be expanded and contracted such as similar to Windows Explorer . In addition the project storage tool may enable a user to store information related to each project on the server and or the user workstation. In one example the project tool storage may provide a project view within the interactive view that provides a visual indication of any number of projects which a user has stored. In addition to identification of one or more stored projects the project storage tool may also allow display and or access to additional stored project related data such as search information relationship views geophysical views etc. Any other projected related information could also be displayed retrieved and or accessed from the project view tool .

The related topics tool may be an automated capability to identify other information that may be of interest to the user based on how the user is interacting with the views. The related topics tool may identify related information based on relationships between data elements key words and or any other information. Identification of related topics may be in the form of a list of links to the related information that is selectable by a user icons or any other media indicative of related information.

As depicted in the related topics tool may provide a topics view within the interactive view that is updated with changing information as a user navigates adjusts and otherwise interacts with the relational data element view and or the geophysical view for example. Retrieval of related information may occur at predetermined intervals based on changes to the views being displayed searches manual entry of data mouse over of displayed information and or any other trigger related to the context in which a user is using the interactive viewer .

Referring again to the detail tool may provide additional information related to the information displayed in one or more of the views. As illustrated in the additional information may be provided in a details view within the interactive view and or as a separate pop up view. Initiation of the display of additional information on a selected topic may be based on selection of an item such as a data element indicium a mouse over of an item user entry of a term or any other criteria. The additional information to be displayed may be predetermined based on user settings a context of the analysis a data element for which the information is being accessed or any other data selection criteria. For example a source from which a data element is derived may be depicted in the details view . As illustrated in a request for additional information related to selection of an item may be generated with the detail tool and transmitted to the server. The detail tool may also receive a response and provide a view of the information included in the response. In the example of depiction of a source in the details view the source may be obtained and displayed based on a link stored in one of the databases or alternatively the source itself may be stored in the knowledge discovery system for access and display.

The filter tool may provide filtering of data displayed in the various views. Filtering may be based on confidence values categories of data elements relationships etc. In addition or alternatively filtering may be data specific based on searches views etc. The filtering also may be based on user inputs the data being displayed or any other information. Application of one or more filters may allow a user to control one or more of the views included in the interactive view by selectively removing information. Accordingly the process of applying filter parameters is a subtractive process in one or more of the views. The filter parameters may be selected entered within a filter view . The filter view may include display of a plurality of previously stored filters that are selectable by a user. Alternatively or in addition the filter view may allow a user to select parameters to include as filter criteria in a new filter. Once generated selected the filter s may be applied to one or more of the views via drag arid drop menu selection or any other user directed mechanism.

As depicted in the multiple visualization integration engine may also include an interaction module and a settings module . The settings module may deploy store and maintain user settings related to the interactive view the sub views within the interactive view the tools or any other settable parameters within the knowledge discovery system. Thus settings within the settings module may be applied to the operation of the tools associated with the various views portions of the interactive view and or the entire interactive view. Settings may be depicted in a settings view within the interactive view . As depicted in the settings view may be a pop up view or any other form of sub view.

The interaction module may monitor each of the views within the interactive view and provide coordinated changes of the information displayed to maintain correlation between the various views. Such coordinated changes may be based on changes by a user or any other event that affects the information displayed in one of the views. The interaction module based on the event may trigger changes in the information presented in another view as part of maintaining correlation among the views. Changes among the different views may be implemented using the DEIDs of the data elements or any other commonality identifier of information among the different views. Accordingly the views may be cohesively maintained to correspond and or correlate with one or more of the other views within the interactive view .

The interaction module may include a monitor capability that monitors each of the tools corresponding to the displayed views. When a tool generates a request and or receives a response the interaction module may automatically generate an alert or adjustment instruction to the remaining tools that is indicative of the information in the request or response. In addition the alert or adjustment instruction may include the DEIDs of any data elements affected by the request response. Based on the alert the tools may selectively generate requests of their own to correspondingly update their respective views to maintain coordination and alignment with the view from which a request or response was initiated.

The interaction module may also enable adjustment of other views based on user commands that are related to a view. For example a user may select a data element indicium in one view and enter a command to depict adjust remove the same data element indicium in another view. Using the DEID of the data element the interaction module may carry out the command. Also the interaction module may enable the same information in multiple views to be identified when that information is selected in any one of the views. For example if a data element indicium in one view is selected depiction of that data element indicium in one or more other views may be identified such as by highlighting using the DEID of that data element.

The interaction module may also be responsive to a tracking setting that is settable within the settings module . The tracking setting may enable and disable automatic adjustments of corresponding views to maintain cohesiveness. The tracking setting may be enabled or disabled for each of the tools views operable within the interactive view . Accordingly any particular view can be locked or allowed to automatically cohesively adjust in order to maintain coordination with other views in the interactive view .

The settings module may also include settings related to individual views. For example a fix boundaries setting may be associated with the geophysical view such an outer boundary of a geographical view may be disabled from adjustment when the fix boundaries setting is enabled. Accordingly automated zoom and pan adjustments with the geophysical context tool based on the currently displayed selected data element indicium may be suspended. In another example adjustment of the focus in the relational data element view may be disabled with a setting in the settings module . In other examples settings to curtail or only allow certain types of adjustments in the views may be included in the settings module . Other example settings included in the settings module may include user display preferences related to one of more of the views view arrangement preferences alert and pop up related preferences drag and drop related preferences mouse over data display preferences and or any other user preference related settings that involve the views or operation of the respective tools.

The relationship context tool includes a relationship context driver and a relationship view control . The relationship context driver may drive the relational data element view to display data element indicium representative of data elements relationship indicium representative of 15 relationships between data elements and the focus data element indicia to form a context as previously discussed with reference to . The relationship context driver may be responsive to user inputs related to the displayed items. Selections with a pointing device touch screen inputs mouse overs drag and drop actions data display requests such as a right mouse click and or any other user initiated inputs may be sensed with the relationship context driver .

The relationship view control is coupled with the relationship context driver and forms an interface with the interaction module . The relationship view control operates as a listener that monitors for changes in the relationship context driver . Upon receipt of an indication of a user input a request may be generated and transmitted to the interaction module on a response request line . The request may be a request for information to adjust the display based on a received user input and may include one or more DEIDs of the affected data elements. In addition the relationship view control may generate an input adjustment message indicative of the adjustment on an adjustment line . The input adjustment message may include one or more DEIDs. Any adjustment of the relational data element view may be formulated into an input adjustment message and transmitted to the interaction module on the adjustment line .

The geophysical context tool includes a geophysical context driver and a geophysical view control . The geophysical context driver may drive the geophysical view to display the geographic map and at least some of the data element indicium as discussed with reference to . The geophysical context driver may be responsive to user inputs related to the displayed items. Selections with a pointing device touch screen inputs mouseovers drag and drop actions data display requests such as a right mouse click and or any other user initiated inputs may be sensed with the geophysical context driver .

The geophysical view control is coupled with the geophysical context driver and forms an interface with the interaction module . The geophysical view control operates as a listener that monitors for changes sensed with the geophysical context driver . Upon receipt of an indication of a user input a request may be generated and transmitted to the interaction module on a response request line . The request may be a request for information to adjust the display based on a received user input and may include one or more DEIDs of the affected data elements. In addition the geophysical view control may generate an input adjustment message indicative of the adjustment on an adjustment line . The input message may include one or more DEIDs. Any adjustment of the geophysical context view may be formulated into an input adjustment message and transmitted to the interaction module on the adjustment line .

The interaction module may include a master visual controller a data element transfer module and a geo data transfer module . In other examples fewer or additional modules may be used to depict the functionality of the interaction module as herein described.

The master visual controller may maintain coordination between the 30 relationship context tool and the geophysical context tool by receiving adjustment events on the adjustment line or from one of the tools and by pushing corresponding adjustment instructions to the other tool on the adjustment line or . Accordingly the master visual controller may automatically and substantially continuously reconcile the relational data element view and the geophysical view . Alternatively reconciliation of the views may be based on a determined interval or schedule such as every 10 seconds or based on a manually input user command. Reconciliation of the views may be maintained based on the DEIDs of the data elements represented in the views.

The master visual controller may include a rules engine . The rules engine may include a set of rules that correlate adjustment events with adjustment instructions. Thus upon receipt of an adjustment event the rules engine may determine the corresponding adjustment instruction to be pushed out. Adjustment events and corresponding adjustment instructions may involve identification of the data elements using the DEIDs. For example the relationship view control may send an adjustment alert over the adjustment line indicating with a DEID that one of the data element indicia has been selected to be the focus indicium. The rules engine may identify a corresponding adjustment instruction to remove highlighting from one data element indicium and add highlighting to the data element indicium shown in the geophysical view that is associated with the DEID selected to be the focus indicium. Thus in response the master visual controller may transmit a corresponding adjustment instruction that includes the DEID on the adjustment line to the geophysical control . The adjustment instruction may direct the geophysical view control to update the data element indicia shown on a geographic map to indicate the newly selected focus indicium.

The master visual controller also includes a global cache and a display buffer . The global cache may be a temporary storage of data related to the information currently displayed in the relational data element view and geophysical view . The cached data may include data from both the data element database and from the geographic database and may be associated with the DEIDs. Thus when more information is needed such as when a user requests something from either the relational data element view or the geophysical view the information may be more efficiently retrieved from the global cache instead of less efficiently retrieved from the respective database. In one example the global cache may store all the information related to that currently being displayed in the views plus an additional 25 representative of the data elements that surround or are adjacent to the current view in the content being displayed.

The display buffer may be any mechanism or device that stores the information currently being displayed in the interactive view . The currently displayed information may be displayed in a table form in the display buffer . Updates to the information in the display buffer may be based on adjustments in the views a predetermined time interval and or any other criteria. Information stored in the display buffer may also be stored in association with a corresponding DEID.

Due to the global cache the adjustment instructions generated with 15 the master visual controller may include data retrieved from the global cache with instructions to adjust the display to include the retrieved data. Alternatively or in addition the adjustment instructions may be a request to obtain information from a respective database since at least part of the information to complete the adjustment was not available from the global cache . Adjustment instructions generated with the rules engine that result in a database request are adjustment instructions that do not include information or include only partial information from the global cache . The database requests may identify the data elements related to the request with the DEIDs of the data elements. The display buffer may store that which is actually being displayed in the relational data element view and the geophysical view . Thus as the views change the display buffer may be updated with information from the global cache .

The data element transfer module and the geo data transfer module may receive respective requests from the relational view control on the response request line and the geophysical view control on the response request line . The requests generated by the relational view control may be based on adjustments sensed with the relationship context driver and requests generated by the geophysical view control may be based on adjustments sensed with the geophysical context driver . In addition the requests may be based on adjustment instructions generated with the rules engine to reconcile the relational data element view with the geophysical view or the geophysical view with the relational data element view.

The data element transfer module and the geo data transfer module may include a data translation capability to convert a request received from the respective relational view control or the geophysical view control to a format compatible with the respective data element database or the geographic database . Also the data element transfer module and the geophysical data transfer module may include a data translation capability to convert a response received from the data element database to be compatible with the relational view control and a response received from the geographic database to be compatible with the geophysical view control . The data element transfer module and the geo data transfer module also may format requests and responses to be compatible with the receiver of the requests and responses. Not only may requests be formatted but in the case of responses both the information being provided and the response itself may be formatted. Alternatively where data translation is unneeded the data element transfer module and or the geo data transfer module may be omitted.

The master visual controller may maintain coordination between the relational data element view and the geophysical view by also maintaining coordination between the data element database and the geographic database . Each of the data elements maintained in the data element database may have an explicit connection with the geodata included in the geographic database as illustrated by a solid arrow line . The explicit connection may be in the form of the data element identifier DEID . As previously discussed the DEID is a unique identifier for each of the data elements. Accordingly each of the data elements included in the data element database may be associated with a respective DEID that is also associated with information related to the same respective data element in the geographic database .

In one example information for each of the data elements included in the data element database may stored in a respective record. Each record may include a plurality of fields. The fields included in each of the records may include the DEID that is unique to the data element represented with the record and at least one category that provides a context for the data element. In addition the record may include other fields such as a name a label a description at least one relationship indicator and any other information to be associated with a particular data element. For example priorities confidence s data history source information etc. could be included in a data record.

The geographic database may also include records related to each of the data elements. Each of the records in the geographic database may include the DEID a latitude longitude indicative of a geographically based location and at least one category that provides a context for the position information of each of the data elements. If a data element does not have a location associated therewith the latitude and longitude may be null. Each of the records may also include a description of the geographic location and any other geographically related information associated with the data element identified with the DEID.

The DEIDs may also be associated with multiple geographic locations each with a different category providing a context. For example a DEID may be broken down into a plurality of sub DEIDs each with a different location and category. Thus dependent on the category a corresponding location may be extracted from the geographic database and displayed in the geophysical view .

The data element database and the geographic database may also include implied relationships as illustrated by a dotted arrow line . The implied relationships may be based on relationships between the data elements described in the records of the data element database as previously discussed. Due to the use of the DEIDs in both the geographic database and the data element database the implied relationships are also implicitly present in the geographic database . Inherently the DEIDs in the geographic database also may include geographically based relationships due to their geographic locations. Thus data relationships and geographic relationships may be cohesively displayed applied and manipulated by a user based on the DEIDs and the coordinated interactive application of the data from the geographic database and the data element database to the relational data element view and the geophysical view.

Each of the data element indicia that are illustrated include indication of the DEID that is unique to a data element being represented by a respective data element indicium . The data element indicia may be displayed within a particular zone representative of a category included in the records of the respective data elements that are associated with the context being displayed. One of the zones is a focus zone . The focus zone may include a focus data element indicium and describe a category of the focus element indicia for the particular context being displayed. Although depicted as being centrally located in the illustrated example the focus zone and or focus data element indicium may be positioned anywhere within the relational data element view . Some of the data element indicia may also include relationship indicium indicative of relationships between data elements as described in the respective records of the data elements.

As previously discussed the relational data element view may be adjusted and manipulated by a user. Adjustments may be direct adjustments such as adding a new relationship changing the focus zone or changing the focus data element indicium . In addition indirect adjustments based on adjustments or manipulations in the other views as previously described are possible.

The illustrated geophysical view includes a geographic map. Displayed on the geographic map may be indicia representative of at least some of the data element indicia displayed in the relational data element view . In the illustrated example representation of the focus data element DEID and the data element indicia from the zone identified as CATEGORY are depicted DEID DEID and DEID . Also depicted are two additional date elements DEID and DEID that are not depicted in any category in the relation data element view but are geographically nearby the focus data element . Thus the two additional date elements DEID and DEID may be displayed based on a geographical relationship with the focus data element indicium .

The two additional date elements DEID and DEID may not be linked with the data element indicia . The display of the additional data elements DEID and DEID may be based on user manipulation of search results filtering and or any other tools as previously discussed and may represent previously undiscovered information relevant to the focus data element indicium DEID that was identified. Thus the two additional date elements DEID and DEID are illustrative of previously unknown related information that was identified without a significant or any confidence value that warrants display in the relational data element view . Accordingly depiction of the additional data elements DEID and DEID are illustrative of how the coordinated use of combination of the relational data element view the geophysical view and any additional information using for example mouse clicks mouse overs menus etc. as previously described may be accessed from these views and may be used to determine relevancy of information.

The geophysical view may also provide the capability to identify relationships between displayed data element indicia in the context of the currently displayed information. Identification of relationships may be performed using the relationship builder module as previously discussed. Identification of implied relationships may be based on proximity a nearness consideration confidence values or any other information as also previously discussed.

A determination of geographic proximity may be based on a distance boundary indicator . The distance boundary indicator may be requested by a user and implemented with the relationship context tool using for example a pointing device on the geophysical view . The size and shape of the distance boundary indicator may be adjustably selected by the user. Thus the shape of the generated boundary indication may be square round octagonal freehand or any other geometric or non geometric shape. The distance boundary indicator may be initiated to create a request to return information from the database s on all items within the distance boundary indicator . Returning all items within the distance boundary indicator may be used to identify items such as data elements that are within geographic proximity. Such data elements which were not previously linked may be identified and linked based on geographic proximity of the data element indicia in the geophysical view . Based on analysis of the distance boundary indicator the user may create a relationship using for example a pointing device on the geophysical view .

Geographic proximity also may be used semantically to enhance and or bolster analysis related to knowledge discovery and relationship discovery. Semantic geographical descriptors may be used to descriptively and categorically describe geographic relationships between data elements. The semantic geographical descriptors may descriptively define distances with terms such as near far close to waypoint shortest etc. These semantic geographic descriptors may be utilized by a user during analysis to filter categorize or otherwise constructively modify the context of one or more of the views by enabling a user to semantically query retrieve and relate physical locations with other physical locations and relationships.

Semantic geographic descriptors may be established automatically or manually. In one example semantic geographic descriptors may be pre defined and applied automatically based on rules or other logic at the time a data element is derived when a search is performed when a view is populated or at any other time. In another example semantic geographic descriptors may be associated with the geographic proximity of data elements encompassed with the distance boundary indicator . For example when a distance boundary indicator is applied to the geophysical view predefined semantic geographical descriptors may be automatically applied within the distance boundary indicator based on predefined rules. Such predefined rules may operate based on physical distance differences in location coordinates proximity with respect to a geographic location such as in a city or town or any other determination related to geographic location. The semantic geographical descriptors may be associated with those data elements represented with data element indicia falling within the distance boundary indicator . Alternatively a user may select and manually indicate semantic geographic descriptors based on application of predetermined definitions to the data element indicia being displayed and or within the distance boundary indicator .

Alternatively the search may be an inductive analysis in which the 5 search is for subject matter related to a topic such as a search for a bomb maker based on a large number of bombings that occurred along a particular street. In this example data relationship links and geographic information and associations therebetween may provide an indication of terrorist groups or individuals involved in such activities.

The user may elect to have one of the search results displayed in the relational data element view at block . Selection may be based on dragging the selected search result from the search view to the relational data element view for example. At block the relationship context driver may sense the addition of the search result and the relationship view control may generate a request for information. The information may include one or more DE1D s related to the selected search result and any other information related thereto. Thus the selected search result may include a plurality of data elements and their related information dependent on the context of the search.

The context of the search may be specified manually as one of the 20 search parameters during a search. For example the user could manually enter or select a subject area context from a drop down list prior to commencing a search. Alternatively or in addition the context may be determined automatically by the knowledge discover system. Automatic determination may be based on user settings user preference predictions based on previous searches frequency at which the search results are displayed or any other parameters. In addition automatic determination of a context may be enabled based on verification by the user of the need to generate consider the context.

In one example the context of a search may by automatically determined by the rules engine based on predefined rules stored therein. Within the rules engine rules may be defined for the rendering a search results context view. The rules may specify the order of importance for relationships between categories and data properties returned in the search results. The presence of important relationships and properties in the search results combined with the amount of related information may be encoded or otherwise identified in the context of a length of a path connecting the search data element s to the result data element s . These path length parameters may be empirically determined to limit erroneous links between data elements. The resulting connection paths or path length parameters may be used to determine the layout and population of a view such as the geophysical view . Results with higher importance and greater path length may be displayed first and or with higher priority.

At block it is determined based on the DEID s if the requested information needed to populate the relational data element view is cached in the global cache . If yes the information is extracted from the global cache stored in the display buffer and the relational data element view is adjusted via the relationship view control and the relationship context driver at block . If all or some portion of the requested information is not available from the global cache a request for whatever information is missing is transmitted via the data element transfer module to the data element database at block . For example the focus data element from the search result and related information may be missing from the global cache . Thus the DEID of the focus data element is included in the request.

At block a response may be generated and transmitted to the relationship context tool via the data element transfer module . As previously discussed depending on the nature of the request related information in addition to what is used for display may be included in the response. Accordingly in this example a focus data indicia relationships related thereto data record fields for the focus data element and any other related information may be provided in the response. In addition since the global cache is configured to include surrounding information other data element indicia relationally surrounding the focus data element may also be included in the response.

The response may be parsed by the relationship view control and provided to the relationship context driver to update the relational data element view at block . In addition at block the global cache and the display buffer may be updated and the operation may adjust the relational data element view to display the search results. As previously discussed the global cache may be updated with the data elements requested nearness related data elements relationship related data elements and all related information. The display buffer on the other hand may be updated with only that information currently being displayed. All information may be added and or updated based on the DEID s.

It is then determined with the rules engine if an adjustment to the geophysical view is warranted based on the adjustment to the relational data element view at block . If no adjustment is necessary the relationship context tool and the geophysical context tool monitor for adjustments to the relational data element view and the geophysical view respectively at block . If at block adjustment is necessary it is determined if tracking is enabled for the geophysical view at block . If not the operation proceeds to block and monitors for adjustments. If tracking is enabled as illustrated in the rules engine considers the adjustment to relational data element view and in accordance with a corresponding rule generates a corresponding adjustment instruction that is sent to the geophysical view control at block . The adjustment instruction may be for example to adjust the geophysical view to display the focus data element indicia and surrounding data element indicia that come within the context of the search and are geographically proximate to the focus data element . Accordingly the DEID of the focus data element indicia may be included in the adjustment instruction. At block it is determined if the information needed to adjust the geophysical view is included in the global cache . This determination may be based at least partially on the DEID included in the adjustment instruction.

If the information is present in the global cache at block the information is extracted from the global cache stored in the display buffer and the geophysical view is adjusted via the geophysical view control and the geophysical context driver . If at block some or all of the information is not present in the global cache a request is generated with the geophysical view control and transmitted to the geographic database via the geo data transfer module at block . Such a request may include for example the DEID and latitude longitude information for the focus data element indicia as well as a request for geographically proximate data element information. At block a response from the geographic database is transmitted to the geophysical view control . The geophysical view control may parse the response and direct the geophysical context driver to adjust the geophysical view based on the response at block . In addition at block the geophysical view control may update the global cache and the display buffer and the operation may return to block on to continue monitoring for adjustments.

The previously described knowledge discovery tool provides an interactive view having both a relational data element view and a geophysical view that may be operated in coordination to cohesively provide two different perspectives related to any given search or investigation. Through use of the knowledge management tool information from a vast array of sources may be captured cleansed organized and provided as data elements in a searchable format. In addition using categories associated with the data elements a context for a search may be implemented. The context may provide categorization of the data elements related to the search for purposes of characterizing the nature of the search. Accordingly the context may provide a framework to narrow and focus the investigation by providing a perimeter within which search related information may be identified and displayed.

With the relational data element view and the corresponding geophysical view enabled to display search results the user is provided a powerful multifaceted view of information related to data elements identified within the search results. Since the relationships between data elements may also be identified within the context of the search other categories of information and data elements associated therewith may be provided in the views. In addition the user is provided the capability to manipulate and adjust either one of the views to filter and otherwise bring into focus the search results and or related information and provide a visually perceptible result that is fully responsive to the information being sought from the search.

While the present invention has been described with reference to specific exemplary embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the claims. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense.

