---

title: Glow plug removal tool
abstract: A hand tool for removing a glow plug from a combustion engine includes two interconnected arms each being movable with respect to one another and each having a working end and an opposing handle portion. The hand tool may further include an extension body that has a generally tubular configuration. The extension body may have a first body portion and a second body portion wherein the first body portion extends from one of the interconnected arms and wherein the second body portion extends from the other of the interconnected arms and wherein each of the first body portion and the second body portion includes an interior surface that is threaded.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08397608&OS=08397608&RS=08397608
owner: The United States of America, as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08397608
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100521
---
This application is a Continuation In Part of U.S. Patent And Trademark Office application Ser. No. 11 357 457 entitled Glow Plug Puller which was filed on Feb. 15 2006 by the same inventor herein and is about to be abandoned. This Continuation In Part is being filed under 35 USC 120 and 37 CFR 1.53 and priority from that application is hereby claimed.

The invention described herein may be manufactured used imported sold and licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America without the payment of any royalty thereon or there for.

The present invention relates generally to hand tools and more particularly to hand tools for facilitating the removal of items from confined locations.

Various hand tools for extracting a swollen or bent glow plug from a diesel combustion engine are currently available. For example U.S. Pat. No. 6 584 662 describes an extractor tool that has an externally threaded shaft an internally threaded sleeve that engages the externally threaded shaft and a fixed cavity formed in one end of the externally threaded shaft. The cavity has a side entry to permit the insertion of the glow plug into the cavity in a direction normal to the shaft and a pair of opposing shoulders integrally formed in opposing sidewalls of the cavity to engage the glow plug. The sleeve threads down the shaft until it contacts the engine block. Rotating the sleeve exerts a pulling force on the shaft which is transferred to the inserted glow plug by the opposing shoulders in the cavity. This pulls both the shaft and the inserted glow plug away from the engine block.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 427 303 describes a glow plug pulling device that includes an elongate shaft having a threaded inner end portion and a smooth outer end portion. The smooth outer end portion has a hammer stop fixedly secured thereto. A collet is coupled with respect to the threaded inner end portion of the elongated shaft. The collet has an outer end having an internally threaded aperture for coupling with the threaded inner end portion of the elongated shaft. The collet has a hex shaped open inner end for engaging the hex shaped outer free end of the glow plug. The collet has a compression sleeve secured thereto intermediate the outer end and inner end thereof. A slide hammer is slidably disposed on the smooth outer end portion of the elongated shaft. The slide hammer has an open inner end dimensioned for receiving and engaging the compression sleeve of the collet therein. The slide hammer has a knurled outer surface.

Both of these prior art hand tools are complex difficult to operate and time consuming to utilize. Moreover both require the user to exert a pulling force to pull the glow plug from the diesel engine. However a pulling force may be counter productive when portions of the glow plug are stuck in the diesel engine because the heating element is swollen bent or broken. Thus prior art glow plug pullers will often bend or break the misshaped glow plug heating element which requires more time consuming and costly removal operations or even damage to the diesel engine. Accordingly it is an object of the present invention to ameliorate these and other shortcomings limitations problems and difficulties presented by use of current glow plug puller devices with an easier to use glow plug removal tool.

In order to answer the long felt need for a glow plug removal tool that does not suffer from the shortcomings limitations problems and difficulties of prior art glow plug pullers the present invention provides a glow plug removal tool that advantageously allows the user to more easily remove a bent broken or misshapen glow plug heating element from a diesel engine. The present invention s hand tool avoids the costly and time consuming replacement and repair procedures required because of the damage to the glow plug port and diesel engine often caused by prior art glow plug pullers. The present invention is a hand tool for removing a glow plug from a combustion engine comprising two interconnected arms each being movable with respect to one another and having a working end and an opposing handle portion. The hand tool may further comprise an extension body that has a generally tubular configuration. The extension body includes a first body portion and a second body portion wherein the first body portion extends from one of the interconnected arms and the second body portion extends from the other of the interconnected arms with the first body portion and the second body portion having opposing threaded inner surfaces that extend threading in the glow plug port of the diesel engine in such a way that glow plug threads spin out of the glow plug port much more easily.

One embodiment of the present invention concerns a hand tool for facilitating the removal of a stuck diesel engine glow plug. The hand tool may advantageously comprise a locking type of pliers that has a working end with a tubular shaped threaded extension body mounted thereon. The hand tool may be operated for example to form around and thereafter facilitate the removal of a glow plug that has a swollen or bent end that is stuck in a glow plug port of a diesel combustion engine.

Referring now to a hand tool in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention is illustrated generally at . The hand tool is shown with an exemplary work piece that is glow plug . The glow plug comprises a heating element mounting threads hex nut and an electrical connector . The hand tool is particularly useful in connection with the removal of a glow plug where the heating element has swelled or bent not shown such that it is incapable of easily being pulled out by hand through a narrow glow plug port of a diesel combustion engine . It is in such circumstances that prior art glow plug pullers may cause costly repairs or damage to the diesel engine.

In this embodiment and referring now to the hand tool generally comprises at one end a handle portion and at the opposing end a working portion . The handle portion may be composed of a suitably strong and durable material such as a metallic substance and may comprise arms and that may be interconnected together via a pin to provide movement in the direction of arrows at the working portion . While means to achieve the foregoing function is preferably a locking type of pliers which may be similar to that sold under the term VISE GRIPS it will be understood that the arms and may be configured in any suitable manner to achieve this function such as any generally available non locking type of pliers. As shown arm is articulated and connected to the arm by the pin and a movable member . A screw member is provided for adjusting a pinching force provided in the direction of arrows .

Referring now also to extending from each arm and may be angled portions and which may extend at an acute angle A that may be approximately 35 degrees to a longitudinal axis x of the arms and . For ease of illustration only the longitudinal axis x of the arm is shown. Angle A may be in the range of between approximately 1 degree and approximately 60 degrees depending upon the required application taking into account the pathway available to the workpiece.

Referring back now to the working portion or extension body may be composed of any suitably strong and durable material such as a metallic substance and may also have a generally tubular configuration defining a generally cylindrical cavity when arms and are squeezed together. As best seen in the extension body may comprise a first body portion and a second body portion each of which extend from a respective angled portion and . The first body portion and the second body portion may each comprise a generally semi cylindrical configuration although it will be appreciated that together the body portions and may not form a complete cylinder or that one or the other may comprise a greater peripheral portion of a cylinder than one half. For example both body portions may together only cover about 90 of the periphery of a cylinder or one body portion may cover 75 of the periphery of a cylinder with the other covering the other approximately 25 .

In accordance with another feature of the present embodiment each body portion and comprises a threaded inner surface and for providing an extension of the threads of the port wherefrom a glow plug may be extracted. Accordingly it will be appreciated that the threaded inner surfaces and depicted in should correspond to that of the threads of glow plug and those of the port .

As best seen in each body portion hidden in may comprise a minimum length l which may be found by the following equation where d d and dare measured along the glow plug as shown in particularly where dis a distance from the glow plug threads to the hex nut of the glow plug dis a distance of an enlarged diametrical portion not numbered of the glow plug and dis a distance of the enlarged diametrical portion of the glow plug together with a distance of the heating element . It will be appreciated that such a minimum length I will provide that the terminal end of the heating element will be extracted a sufficient distance to an enlarged diametrical portion of the glow plug port to be either removed by hand or with another suitable tool such as a wrench or pair of pliers.

In operation and as best seen in a glow plug may be removed from the port of the diesel engine by first unscrewing the glow plug until glow plug threads have completely exited the port . At this time it will be noted that where the heating element has swelled or bent further rotation of the glow plug fails to produce additional separation of the glow plug from the port . In accordance with the present invention opposing threaded inner surfaces and of the extension body extend the threading of the port in such a way that the glow plug threads will spin easily within the hand tool . The hand tool now may be advantageously maneuvered into position in order to locate the extension body about the threads of the glow plug and in position to provide additional threading of the opposing threaded inner surfaces and to that of the port . To achieve this the handle portion may be squeezed by hand forcing arms and together in the direction of arrows and in turn first and second body portions and together to form the extension body and engage the threads of glow plug . Once the opposing threaded inner surfaces and of the extension body and the glow plug threads properly mesh the extension body is positioned against the diesel engine for additional leverage. The cooperation of the opposing threaded inner surfaces and glow plug threads and leverage of the extension body against the diesel engine allows the glow plug threads to spin freely within the hand tool so that the glow plug may be further rotated via a socket wrench or the like not shown whereby the glow plug may be completely extracted from the port despite the heating element being swollen or bent without the glow plug being broken or grabbed to pull thereby preventing damage to the diesel engine . Those skilled in the art will readily see that another advantage of this invention s hand tool over prior art arrangements is that extension arms and and body portions and are formed as a single integral piece and that there are no small or loose parts that can break or fall into the engine block during the glow plug removal operation.

While the present invention has been described in connection with what are presently considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments it is to be understood that the present invention is not limited to these herein disclosed embodiments. It is to be further understood that other features and modifications to the foregoing detailed description are within the contemplation of the present invention which is not limited by this detailed description. Those skilled in the art will readily appreciate that any number of configurations of the present invention and numerous modifications and combinations of materials components arrangements and dimensions can achieve the results described herein without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention. Accordingly the present invention should not be limited by the foregoing description but only by the appended claims.

