---

title: Quantitative trait loci associated with soybean cyst nematode resistance and methods of their use
abstract: Several QTLs that are genetically linked to resistance to soybean cyst nematode (SCN) are disclosed. These QTLs have been mapped to genomic regions on Chrs. 4, 8, 10, 11, 18, and 20 of soybean, . Candidate genes underlying these QTLs as defined by the flanking markers, as well as genetic markers associated with these QTLs are also disclosed. These markers can be utilized for introgressing SCN resistance into non-resistant soybean germplasm. The unique resistance genes can be introduced into a non-resistant plant by marker-assisted selection (MAS) or by transgenic methods.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08692064&OS=08692064&RS=08692064
owner: The Curators of the University of Missouri
number: 08692064
owner_city: Columbia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101002
---
This application claims priority of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 278 233 filed on Oct. 2 2009 the contents of which are hereby incorporated into this application by reference.

This invention was made with government support under grant number 2006 34113 17139 by USDA CSREES. The government has certain rights in the invention

This application is accompanied by a sequence listing both on paper and in a computer readable form that accurately reproduces the sequences described herein.

The present disclosure relates to identification of quantitative trait loci QTLs and gene s that confer upon a soybean plant resistance to soybean cyst nematode SCN and methods to use these loci and genes to obtain soybean strains that are resistant to SCN.

Soybean cyst nematode SCN is one of the most destructive pests of soybean in the United States and worldwide. Although nematocides may be used to reduce the population of nematodes the use of nematocides is neither economical nor environmentally friendly. Host plant resistance is an effective approach to control this pest however continuously growing the same resistant cultivar s may result in SCN population shifts and loss of SCN resistant phenotype.

Since the discovery of SCN in the United States in the 1970s extensive efforts have been made to identify new SCN resistance sources by screening plant introductions PIs of the USDA soybean germplasm collection Anand et al. 1988 Arelli et al. 2000 Arelli et al. 1997 Young 1995 . Chen et al. 2006 used bioassay to characterize over 120 SCN resistance soybean accessions with SCN races 3 5 and 14 and reported many PIs including PI 437654 PI 438489B PI 90763 PI 89772 PI 404198A and PI 567516C with high resistance levels to multi races.

Although several SCN resistance quantitative trait loci QTLs have been discovered in PI 437654 Concibido et al. 2004 U.S. Pat. No. 6 096 944 issued to Vierling et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 6 538 175 issued to Webb many SCN resistance QTLs remain to be identified. More SCN sources of resistance have been evaluated extensively to identify novel QTLs and epistatic effects between QTLs Wu et al 2009 . Among soybean PIs evaluated for SCN resistance PI 437654 PI 467312 PI 438489B and PI 567516C have been reported to be highly resistant to multi races also known as HG types of SCN. In addition PI 567516C is also resistant to a synthetic nematode population LY1 and genetically unique from most other SCN resistant sources including Peking and PI 88788 that are widely used in current SCN resistant varieties.

The instrumentalities described herein overcome the problems outlined above and advance the art by providing novel quantitative trait loci QTLs which may contain SCN resistance genes. Markers associated with these QTLs may also be used to obtain new soybean strains that are SCN resistant using molecular breeding or transgenic approaches.

More particularly the disclosure relates to the identification of quantitative trait loci QTLs responsible for resistance to multi SCN races in four soybean plant introductions PI 437654 PI 467312 PI 438489B and PI 567516C. These QTLs are mapped to genomic regions on Chrs. 4 8 10 11 18 and 20 Table 1 . Among the QTLs listed in Table 1 SCN QTLs 4 5 6 7 10 and 11 have not been previously reported in cultivated soybeans . Genomic loci that are proximate to or overlap with SCN QTLs 1 3 8 9 have been reported in other soybean PIs but not in the PIs used in the present disclosure.

In addition the disclosure provides candidate genes underlying these QTL regions defined by markers flanking the QTLs. Some of these genes may be introduced by marker assisted selection MAS from a resistant plant using gene identification marker development transformation and molecular breeding methods. Preferably the resistant plant comprises a homozygous genomic fragment of the resistant PI lines. Examples of such resistant PI lines include but are not limited to PI 437654 PI 467312 PI 438489B and PI 567516C. The markers may also be utilized for introgressing SCN resistance into non resistant soybean germplasm.

It is disclosed herein genomic regions i.e. QTLs responsible for resistance to multi SCN races HG types in four soybean plant introductions PI 437654 PI 467312 PI 438489B and PI 567516C. These QTLs were mapped in genomic regions on chromosomes 4 8 10 11 18 and 20 respectively. Some of these QTLs have been previously reported while some have not been reported in other SCN resistant sources of cultivated soybeans . In addition markers developed from these regions may facilitate the development of near isogenic lines NILs using the marker assisted backcrossing MAB approach leading to fine mapping.

Candidate genes underlying these QTL regions may be cloned by utilizing comprehensive approaches that combine genomics proteomics and metabolic tools. In one embodiment these genes either alone or in combination may be introduced into a host soybean plant known to be susceptible to SCN. The genes may be placed in a construct and introduced into the host soybean plant by transformation. Transformation may be performed as a number of known soybean transformation methods. In another embodiment the identity of the gene s that may be responsible for nematode resistance may be obtained by a series of deletion experiments wherein a portion of a QTL is removed and tested to determine if the truncated QTL fragments still confer upon nematode resistance to a soybean strain that is otherwise susceptible to nematode infection.

In another embodiment the present disclosure provides a method of introgressing SCN resistance into non resistant soybean germplasm. Loci associated with SCN resistance in soybean lines known to be resistant to SCN are used in marker assisted selection MAS during introgession of SCN resistance into elite soybean germplasm. Examples of soybean lines known to be resistant to one or more races of SCN include PI 437654 Peking PI 90763 PI 467312 PI 438489B and PI 567516C. The method of the present invention can be used to breed soybeans resistant to all SCN races. The SCN races of particular commercial importance are races 1 2 3 5 6 9 and 14.

The present disclosure also provides a number of markers associated with the QTLs which may be useful for plant breeding. It is disclosed here a method for generating a soybean plant by performing a step a of determining the presence or absence of a marker gene or a fragment thereof. In one aspect the marker gene may be one or more of the polynucleotide molecules of SEQ ID Nos. 1 22. Step a may be performed using DNA hybridization or PCR. In another aspect the method may further include a step b of introgressing the trait of SCN resistance into an SCN sensitive soybean germplasm with the step b preceding step a . In yet another aspect the nucleic acid markers as disclosed herein may be used in soybean lines known to be resistant to one or more SCN races or in lines whose susceptibility to SCN is unknown. For example the markers may be used in genetic mapping of soybean lines to be used in and or which have been developed in a breeding program allowing for marker assisted selection during introgression of SCN resistance into elite germplasm.

It is also disclosed a number of recombinant inbred lines RILs that are resistant to single or multi race of SCN. These RILs are genetically homozygous lines and are listed in Table 2.

Previous studies have suggested that multiple genes with quantitative inheritance patterns may be responsible for soybean resistance to SCN and that different soybean germplasm may contain different SCN resistant genes Anand and 1Rao Arelli 1989 Guo et al. 2005 Guo et al. 2006b Mansur et al. 1993 Yue et al. 2001a . This disclosure provides novel QTLs that are associated with SCN resistance in various plant introductions PIs . SCN resistance genes underlying these QTL regions discovered from these soybean plants may be introduced into other soybean varieties or germplasm using transgenic approaches or by marker assisted selection MAS with genetic markers.

It is to be understood that the materials and methods in this disclosure are taught by way of example and not by limitation. The disclosed instrumentalities may be broader than the particular methods and materials described herein which may vary within the skill of the art. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. Further unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meaning as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the related art. The following terminology and grammatical variants are used in accordance with the definitions set out below.

Among several PIs with multi race resistance PI 567516C originating from China http www.ars grin.gov has been reported to be resistant to SCN races 1 2 3 Arelli et al. 1997 Xie et al. 1998 . PI 567516C is also genetically unique from most other SCN resistant sources such as Peking and PI 88788 Chen et al. 2006 . In addition PI 567516C is the only PI identified to be resistant to SCN race LY1 Young 1998 Arelli and Young 2005 Arelli et al. 2009 . Although several SCN resistant PIs have been utilized for the genetic characterization of QTLs associated with SCN resistance limited information has been gained on quantitative resistance of PI 437654 PI 467312 PI 438489B and PI 567516C exotic soybean accessions with broad based resistance to multiple SCN races.

In this disclosure different genetic populations are developed by crossing four SCN resistant PIs namely PI 437654 PI 467312 PI 438489B and PI 567516C with susceptible cultivars such as Essex Hutcheson and Magellan. F2 lines and recombinant inbred lines RILs from each of these genetic populations were phenotyped and molecularly genotyped. Genetic linkage analysis and QTL analysis have mapped 12 QTL regions to Chromosomes 4 8 10 11 18 and 20 Table 1 . Some of these 12 QTLs are unique and have not been reported from other SCN resistance sources.

More specifically to identify QTL gene s underlying SCN resistance in these PIs F2 3 progenies and F6 F7 recombinant inbred lines RILs derived from the crosses of Essex PI 437654 Hutcheson PI 467312 Magellan PI 438489B and Magellan PI 567516C have been developed using the single seed descent SSD method respectively. These RILs were molecularly genotyped with the simple single repeat SSR markers and bio assayed in greenhouse to identify and map quantitative trait loci QTL associated with resistance to different races of soybean cyst nematode SCN . Greenhouse bioassays may be used to characterize the phenotypes of these mapping populations for six SCN races PA1 2 3 5 14 and LY1 . Based upon the genetic marker profiling and female index FI of equal or less than 10 several RILs in each cross listed in Table 2 have been shown to be highly resistant to single or multi race of SCN. The lines from each cross are from the same generation. Based on a 1 100 scale a FI of 10 is used as a threshold value to select a RIL resistant to either single or multi race of SCN. These SCN resistant inbred lines germplasm can be employed for the development of new soybean variety using the marker assisted breeding MAB or conventional breeding methods.

Simple sequence repeats SSR and single nucleotide polymorphism SNP markers may be used for genotyping these genetic populations. Following genetic linkage analysis using the JoinMap 3.0 program permutation tests and composite interval mapping CIM were performed to identify and map QTL using the MapQTL 5.0 or QTLNetwork 2.0 programs. Performing primary QTL mapping using 250 300 progenies 12 putative QTL regions on Chromosomes 4 8 10 11 18 and 20 corresponding to LGs C1 A2 O B1 G and I respectively have been detected and mapped. The identity of these QTL has been confirmed by analyzing the F6 or F7 RIL mapping populations and comparing to the sequence information of soybean physical and genetic maps http soybase.org gbrowse .

The present disclosure also provides a marker selection method that may prove useful in a soybean breeding program. This marker selection method allows the use of markers associated selection for one or more loci at any stage of population development in a two parent population multiple parent population or a backcross population. Such populations are described in Fehr W. R. 1987 Breeding Methods for Cultivar Development in J. R. Wilcox ed. Soybeans Improvement Production and Uses 2d Ed. the disclosures of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

In one aspect the marker assisted selection may be performed by in a step wise fashion whereby different SCN resistance loci are selected in more than one generation. Alternatively the marker assisted selection may be performed in a simultaneous fashion whereby one or more loci are selected in the same generation. Marker assisted selection for SCN resistance may be done before in conjunction with or after biological testings assays and selection for other traits such as seed yield seed composition among others.

The DNA from target populations may be obtained from any plant organs and each DNA sample may represent the genotype of single or multiple plant individuals including seed .

The present disclosure provides a system and a method for expressing a protein that may enhance a host s capability to resist SCN infection. Although soybean plants are the most preferred host for purpose of this disclosure the genetic constructs described herein may be introduced into other eukaryotic organisms if the traits conferred upon these organisms by the constructs are desirable.

The term transgenic plant refers to a host plant into which a gene construct has been introduced. A gene construct also referred to as a construct an expression construct or a DNA construct generally contains as its components at least a coding sequence and a regulatory sequence. A gene construct typically contains at least on component that is foreign to the host plant. For purpose of this disclosure all components of a gene construct may be from the host plant but these components are not arranged in the host in the same manner as they are in the gene construct. A regulatory sequence is a non coding sequence that typically contribute to the regulation of gene expression at the transcription or translation levels. It is to be understood that certain segments in the coding sequence may be translated but may be later removed from the functional protein. An example of these segments is the so called signal peptide which may facilitate the maturation or localization of the translated protein but is typically removed once the protein reaches its destination. Examples of a regulatory sequence include but are not limited to a promoter an enhancer and certain post transcriptional regulatory elements.

After its introduction into a host plant a gene construct may exist separately from the host chromosomes. Preferably the entire gene construct or at least part of it is integrated onto a host chromosome. The integration may be mediated by a recombination event which may be homologous or non homologous recombination. The term express or expression refers to production of RNAs using DNAs as template through transcription or translation of proteins from RNAs or the combination of both transcription and translation. The term chromosome s may be referred to as chrs or chr. 

A host cell as used herein refers to a prokaryotic or eukaryotic cell that contains heterologous DNA which has been introduced into the cell by any means e.g. electroporation calcium phosphate precipitation microinjection transformation viral infection and or the like. A host plant is a plant into which a transgene is to be introduced. A parental plant is the original plant into which genetic changes are to be introduced in order to create a genetically altered plant.

A vector is a composition for facilitating introduction replication and or expression of a selected nucleic acid in a cell. Vectors include for example plasmids cosmids viruses yeast artificial chromosomes YACs etc. A vector nucleic acid is a nucleic acid vector into which heterologous nucleic acid is optionally inserted and which can then be introduced into an appropriate host cell. Vectors preferably have one or more origins of replication and one or more sites into which the recombinant DNA can be inserted. Vectors often have convenient markers by which cells with vectors can be selected from those without. By way of example a vector may encode a drug resistance gene to facilitate selection of cells that are transformed with the vector. Common vectors include plasmids phages and other viruses and artificial chromosomes. Expression vectors are vectors that comprise elements that provide for or facilitate transcription of nucleic acids which are cloned into the vectors. Such elements may include for example promoters and or enhancers operably coupled to a nucleic acid of interest.

 Plasmids generally are designated herein by a lower case p preceded and or followed by capital letters and or numbers in accordance with standard nomenclatures that are familiar to those of skill in the art. Starting plasmids disclosed herein are either commercially available publicly available on an unrestricted basis or can be constructed from available plasmids by routine application of well known published procedures. Many plasmids and other cloning and expression vectors are well known and readily available to those of skill in the art. Moreover those of skill readily may construct any number of other plasmids suitable for use as described below. The properties construction and use of such plasmids as well as other vectors is readily apparent to those of ordinary skill upon reading the present disclosure.

When a molecule is identified in or can be isolated from an organism it can be said that such a molecule is derived from said organism. When two organisms have significant difference in the genetic materials in their respective genomes these two organisms can be said to be genetically different. For purpose of this disclosure the term plant means a whole plant a seed or any organ or tissue of a plant that may potentially develop into a whole plant.

The term isolated means that the material is removed from its original environment such as the native or natural environment if the material is naturally occurring. For example a naturally occurring nucleic acid polypeptide or cell present in a living animal is not isolated but the same polynucleotide polypeptide or cell separated from some or all of the coexisting materials in the natural system is isolated even if subsequently reintroduced into the natural system. Such nucleic acids can be part of a vector and or such nucleic acids or polypeptides could be part of a composition and still be isolated in that such vector or composition is not part of its natural environment.

A recombinant nucleic acid is one that is made by recombining nucleic acids e.g. during cloning DNA evolution or other procedures. A recombinant polypeptide is a polypeptide which is produced by expression of a recombinant nucleic acid. An amino acid sequence is a polymer of amino acid residues a protein polypeptide etc. or a character string representing an amino acid polymer depending on context. Either the given nucleic acid or the complementary nucleic acid can be determined from any specified polynucleotide sequence.

The terms nucleic acid or polynucleotide refer to a deoxyribonucleotide in the case of DNA or ribonucleotide in the case of RNA polymer in either single or double stranded form and unless otherwise specified encompasses known analogues of natural nucleotides that can be incorporated into nucleic acids in a manner similar to naturally occurring nucleotides. A polynucleotide sequence is a nucleic acid which is a polymer of nucleotides A C T U G etc. or naturally occurring or artificial nucleotide analogues or a character string representing a nucleic acid depending on context. Either the given nucleic acid or the complementary nucleic acid can be determined from any specified polynucleotide sequence.

A subsequence or fragment is any portion of an entire sequence of a DNA RNA or polypeptide molecule up to and including the complete sequence. Typically a subsequence or fragment comprises less than the full length sequence and is sometimes referred to as the truncated version. 

Nucleic acids and or nucleic acid sequences are homologous when they are derived naturally or artificially from a common ancestral nucleic acid or nucleic acid sequence. Proteins and or protein sequences are homologous when their encoding DNAs are derived naturally or artificially from a common ancestral nucleic acid or nucleic acid sequence. Similarly nucleic acids and or nucleic acid sequences are homologous when they are derived naturally or artificially from a common ancestral nucleic acid or nucleic acid sequence. The homologous molecules can be termed homologs. Homology is generally inferred from sequence identity between two or more nucleic acids or proteins or sequences thereof . The precise percentage of identity between sequences that is useful in establishing homology varies with the nucleic acid and protein at issue but as little as 25 sequence identity is routinely used to establish homology. Higher levels of sequence identity e.g. 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 95 or 99 or more can also be used to establish homology. Methods for determining sequence identity percentages e.g. BLASTP and BLASTN using default parameters are described herein and are generally available.

The terms identical or sequence identity in the context of two nucleic acid sequences or amino acid sequences of polypeptides refers to the residues in the two sequences which are the same when aligned for maximum correspondence over a specified comparison window. A comparison window as used herein refers to a segment of at least about 20 contiguous positions usually about 50 to about 200 more usually about 100 to about 150 in which a sequence may be compared to a reference sequence of the same number of contiguous positions after the two sequences are aligned optimally. Methods of alignment of sequences for comparison are well known in the art. Optimal alignment of sequences for comparison may be conducted by the local homology algorithm of Smith and Waterman 1981 2 482 by the alignment algorithm of Needleman and Wunsch 1970 48 443 by the search for similarity method of Pearson and Lipman 1988 85 2444 by computerized implementations of these algorithms including but not limited to CLUSTAL in the PC Gene program by Intelligentics Mountain View Calif. GAP BESTFIT BLAST FASTA and TFASTA in the Wisconsin Genetics Software Package Genetics Computer Group GCG 575 Science Dr. Madison Wis. U.S.A. the CLUSTAL program is well described by Higgins and Sharp 1988 73 237 244 and Higgins and Sharp 1989 5 151 153 Corpet et al. 1988 16 10881 10890 Huang et al 1992 8 155 165 and Pearson et al. 1994 24 307 331. Alignment is also often performed by inspection and manual alignment.

In one class of embodiments the polypeptides herein are at least 70 generally at least 75 optionally at least 80 85 90 98 or 99 or more identical to a reference polypeptide e.g. those that are encoded by the genes responsible for SCN resistance. Sequence similarity may be measured by BLASTP or CLUSTAL or any other available alignment software using default parameters. Similarly nucleic acids can also be described with reference to a starting nucleic acid e.g. they can be 50 60 70 75 80 85 90 98 99 or more identical to a reference nucleic acid e.g. those that are set forth by any one of the candidate genes disclosed herein or a fragment thereof e.g. as measured by BLASTN or CLUSTAL or any other available alignment software using default parameters. When one molecule is said to have certain percentage of sequence identity with a larger molecule it means that when the two molecules are optimally aligned said percentage of residues in the smaller molecule finds a match residue in the larger molecule in accordance with the order by which the two molecules are optimally aligned.

In another embodiment DNA sequences that are substantially identical to the candidate genes may be used to generate a transgenic plant that is more resistant to SCN than the host. The term substantially identical as applied to nucleic acid or amino acid sequences means that a nucleic acid or amino acid sequence comprises a sequence that has at least 90 sequence identity or more preferably at least 95 more preferably at least 98 and most preferably at least 99 compared to a reference sequence using the programs described above preferably BLAST using standard parameters. For example the BLASTN program for nucleotide sequences uses as defaults a word length W of 11 an expectation E of 10 M 5 N 4 and a comparison of both strands. For amino acid sequences the BLASTP program uses as defaults a word length W of 3 an expectation E of 10 and the BLOSUM62 scoring matrix see Henikoff Henikoff 89 10915 1989 . Percentage of sequence identity is determined by comparing two optimally aligned sequences over a comparison window wherein the portion of the polynucleotide sequence in the comparison window may comprise additions or deletions i.e. gaps as compared to the reference sequence which does not comprise additions or deletions for optimal alignment of the two sequences. The percentage is calculated by determining the number of positions at which the identical nucleic acid base or amino acid residue occurs in both sequences to yield the number of matched positions dividing the number of matched positions by the total number of positions in the window of comparison and multiplying the result by 100 to yield the percentage of sequence identity. Preferably the substantial identity exists over a region of the sequences that is at least about 50 residues in length more preferably over a region of at least about 100 residues and most preferably the sequences are substantially identical over at least about 150 residues. In a most preferred embodiment the sequences are substantially identical over the entire length of the coding regions.

The term polypeptide is used interchangeably with the terms polypeptides and protein s and refers to a polymer of amino acid residues. A mature protein is a protein which is full length and which optionally includes glycosylation or other modifications typical for the protein in a given cellular environment.

The term variant or mutant with respect to a polypeptide refers to an amino acid sequence that is altered by one or more amino acids with respect to a reference sequence. The variant may have conservative changes wherein a substituted amino acid has similar structural or chemical properties e.g. replacement of leucine with isoleucine. Alternatively a variant may have nonconservative changes e.g. replacement of a glycine with a tryptophan. Analogous minor variation can also include amino acid deletion or insertion or both. Guidance in determining which amino acid residues can be substituted inserted or deleted without eliminating biological or immunological activity can be found using computer programs well known in the art for example DNASTAR software.

As used herein the term resistant or resistance means that the FI between a subject plant and a control plant is 50 or less. More preferably the transgenic plant or progeny thereof has a FI of 20 or less even more preferably at 10 or less. The FI may be calculated as a percentage of number of female cyst nematodes on a subject plant divided by the average number of female nematodes on a control plant such as Hutcheson susceptible control or a host plant after said subject plant and the control plant are grown under comparable condition for a given period of time.

A variety of additional terms are defined or otherwise characterized herein. In practicing the instrumentalities described herein many conventional techniques in molecular biology microbiology and recombinant DNA are optionally used. These techniques are well known to those of ordinary skill in the art. For example one skilled in the art would be familiar with techniques for in vitro amplification methods including the polymerase chain reaction PCR for the production of the homologous nucleic acids described herein.

The markers that are genetically linked to the QTLs disclosed herein or other similarly placed markers may be used in soybean breeding for marker assisted selection of resistance to different races of SCN including but not limited to races 1 2 3 5 14 and LY1.

Selection for resistant strains based on two markers that flank a QTL is generally more reliable than selections based on one marker linked to the QTL. Flanking marker selection relies on two markers thereby reducing the number of false positive due to recombination between one marker and the QTL and consequently reducing the probability selecting a line that is susceptible. It is to be recognized however that when markers are closely linked to a QTL results from single marker selections may be acceptable.

According to another aspect of the present disclosure a new phenotypically superior SCN resistant soybean plant may be produced which possesses desirable traits but is substantially free from undesirable characteristics currently associated with SCN resistant soybean lines. The first step for producing such an improved soybean line may involve providing one or more plants from a parental soybean plant line which comprises in its genome one or more molecular markers disclosed above that are genetically linked to SCN resistance. Preferably the parental plant line is purebreeding for one or more of such molecular markers.

The second step in this method comprises introgressing SCN resistance into a recipient soybean plant line which is not resistant or less resistant to SCNs by performing marker assisted selection based upon the one or more molecular markers in the parent mentioned in the first step. The progeny thus obtained may be backcrossed to obtain a new improved plant having the one or more molecular markers in their genome which are associated with SCN resistance.

Plants thus selected may then be used to develop new SCN resistant recombinant soybean plant lines for example by single seed descent. Alternatively the plant may optionally be further treated to selective breeding by performing additional backcrosses and selections based upon the presence of one or more of the markers for multiple generations. The presence of one or more of the markers may be readily determined by single nucleotide polymorphism SNP analysis of the plant s genomic DNA.

Marker assisted selection may also be used to confirm previous selection for SCN resistance or susceptibility made by challenging plants with SCNs in the field or greenhouse and scoring the resulting phenotypes. Alternatively plants can be analyzed by SNP analysis to determine the presence of the molecular markers disclosed herein in order to confirm the presence of a genomic locus associated with SCN resistance. This method can be applied to a soybean plant soybean seeds or other tissues.

With the completion of the soybean genome sequencing project genes within each QTL may be identified using the genomic information that are publicly available for example at the website maintained by NCBI. These genes may be cloned using genomic library or by PCR using genomic DNA or cDNA as templates.

Alternatively markers linked to each of the mapped QTL may also be used in positional cloning of genes that reside within those QTL. Positional cloning first involves creating a physical map of a contig contiguous overlapping of cloned DNA inserts in the genomic region encompassing one or more marker loci and the target gene. The target gene is then identified and isolated within one or more clones residing in the contig. Having a clone of a gene allows it to be used in genetic studies transformation and the development of transgenic plants and novel phenotypes.

It is to be recognized to that resistance to one race of SCN or to multiple races is likely to be controlled by more than one gene or more than one genomic locus. Genes found to be associated with SCN resistance can also be introduced into a parental plant by transformation in order to create a transgenic plant carrying the SCN resistance gene s . Transformation of a plant cell can be accomplished by a variety of different methodology. Methods that have general utility include for example based systems using either binary and or cointegrate plasmids of both and See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 940 838 U.S. Pat. No. 5 464 763 the biolistic approach See e.g U.S. Pat. No. 4 945 050 U.S. Pat. No. 5 015 580 U.S. Pat. No. 5 149 655 microinjection See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 4 743 548 direct DNA uptake by protoplasts See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 231 019 U.S. Pat. No. 5 453 367 or needle like whiskers See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 302 523 . Any method for the introduction of foreign DNA or RNA into a plant cell and for expression therein may be used within the context of the present disclosure.

The following nonlimiting examples report general procedures reagents and characterization methods that teach by way of example and should not be construed in a narrowing manner that limits the disclosure to what is specifically disclosed. Those skilled in the art will understand that numerous modifications may be made and still the result will fall within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

The following genetic populations were generated using the Single Seed Descent method RILs stands for Recombinant Inbred Lines 

Single Seed Descent is a common method to generate recombinant inbred lines RILs in genetics study. By way of example to obtain F6 7 RILs one would start from a genetically segregating F2 population of a biparent cross. At maturity one single seed of each F2 plant was harvested and individually recorded i.e. labeled with an ID. These F2 seeds were grown to produce F3 plants. Again one single seed of each F3 plant was harvested. The process was repeated until F6 generation was reached. The F6 plants were grown and harvested in bulk. These F6 were grown in row and harvested to generate F7 RILs. At this F7 stage most of the genes in the genome are homozygous as a result of several generations of genetic recombination.

DNA extraction and molecular marker analysis were performed as described below. Briefly genomic DNA was isolated from young leaf tissue of the parents F2 plants or RILs using an automated DNA extraction instrument AutoGen 960 AutoGen Inc. Holliston Mass. following the CTAB protocol as described by the manufacturer. The DNA concentration was quantified with a spectrophotometer NanoDrop Technologies Inc. Centreville Del. and diluted to concentration of 20 ng ul for polymerase chain reaction PCR amplification of SSR marker analysis and 50 ng ul for the GoldenGate assays of SNP marker genotyping.

For fluorescent labeled SSR markers PCR amplifications were performed in 12.5 ul final volume on Eppendorf 96 or 384 well thermal cyclers Eppendorf AG Germany . Each reaction contained 40 50 ng of genomic DNA 0.13 uM of forward primer labeled and 0.2 uM of reverse primer 0.2 mM of each dNTP and 1 unit of Taq DNA polymerase GenScript Corp. Piscataway N.J. . The thermal cycler program was performed at 94 C. for 5 min followed by 35 cycles of denaturation at 94 C. for 30 sec annealing at 47 C. or 52 C. for 30 sec and extension at 72 C. for 45 sec. A 10 min extension at 72 C. followed the last cycle. The PCR products were separated using an ABI3100 or 3730 DNA sequencer ABI Applied BioSystems Foster City Calif. .

The allele of each marker was analyzed with GeneMapper 3.7 software ABI Applied BioSystems Foster City Calif. . For SNP markers the universal soy linkage panel the USLP 1.0 containing 1 536 SNP loci that were discovered and mapped onto the integrated molecular genetic linkage map as previously described Hyten et al. 2008 was utilized to genotype F6 7 RTL mapping populations using the Illumina GoldenGate assay Fan et al. 2006 .

A total of 5 ul of 50 ng ul of RNase treated genomic DNA sample was activated by biotinylation followed by the oligonucleotide target annealing step in which the SNP specific oligonucleotide annealed to the activated DNA by ramping the temperature from 70 C. to 30 C. over 2 h. Three oligonucleotide sequences two allele specific oligos ASO and one locus specific oligo LSO designed for each SNP contain regions of genomic complementary and universal PCR primer sites. The LSO also contained a unique IllumiCode sequence complementary to a particular bead type. Following the assay oligonucleotide hybridization wash steps to remove excess and mis hybridized oligos and adding a master mix of extension and ligation the assay of oligonucleotide extension and ligation were implemented at 45 C. for 15 min.

DNA polymerase was used to extend the ASO and fill the gaps between the ASO and LSO and a DNA ligase was employed to seal the nick between the extended ASO and LSO to form PCR template that can be amplified with three universal PCR primers. These universal primers were 5 labeled with Cy3 Cy5 and biotin. The PCR amplification was then performed following a thermal cycler program 10 min at 37 C. followed by 3 min at 95 C. 34 cyclers of denaturation at 95 C. for 35 sec annealing at 56 C. for 35 sec and extension at 72 C. for 2 min. A 10 min extension at 72 C. followed the last cycle.

The resulting double stranded PCR products were immobilized onto paramagnetic particles followed by steps of washing and denaturing. The released single stranded DNAs were then hybridized to their complementary bead type through their unique IllumiCode sequence of the Sentrix array matrix SAM under a temperature gradient program from 60 C. to 45 C. for at least 12 h. The hybridized SAM was rinsed and dried for 20 min in dark. The array imaging was performed using the Illumina BeadStation Illumina San Diego Calif. .

The allele calling for each SNP locus was conducted with the BeadStudio 3.0 software Illumina San Diego Calif. based on the intensities detected from the two channels Cy3 and Cy5 for the two respective alleles of each SNP. The clusters of homozygote and heterozygous genotypes for each SNP were manually checked and identified for polymorphisms between the two parental lines. The polymorphic SNP loci were then employed for the genetic linkage analysis and QTL mapping.

Soybean cyst nematode SCN bioassays were performed in the greenhouse at the University of Missouri Columbia according to established methods Arelli et al. 1997 . All SCN races 1 2 3 5 14 and LY1 corresponding to HG types 2.5.7 1.2.5.7 0 1.2.7 1.3.6.7 and 1.2.5.6.7 respectively Niblack et al. 2002 that were used in this Example have been maintained for many generations at the University of Missouri Columbia Arelli et al. 1997 Arelli et al. 2000 . The population purity of each race and the success of a phenotyping experiment were monitored and evaluated by SCN reaction to indicator lines Peking Pickett PI 88788 PI 90763 PI 437654 PI 209332 PI 89772 PI 548316 and Hutcheson susceptible control .

More particularly soybean seeds were germinated for three days in germination pouches and then seedlings were transplanted into micropots one plant in each micropot filled with steam pasteurized sandy soil. Five plants of each indicator lines and five single plant replications per RIL two independent experiments for all races were planted together in random way. Twenty four micropots each were placed in a plastic container and maintained at 27 10 C. in a thermal regulated water bath. Two days after transplanting roots of each plant were inoculated with 2000 25 SCN eggs. Thirty days after transplanting roots were harvested and washed to collect female nematode. Nematode cysts were then counted under a stereo microscope. The female index FI was calculated to evaluate SCN response of each individual seedling of all plants including parents F2 3 progenies RILs and indicator lines. The FI was calculated as a percentage of number of female cyst nematodes on a given individual divided by the average number of female nematodes on cultivar Hutcheson.

Data processing and analysis were performed as described in the following text. Female index FI of F2 3 progenies and RILs were tested for normality using the UNIVARIATE procedure of SAS 9.1 SAS Institute Cary N.Y. . The Shapiro Wilk W statistical method was used to test the null hypothesis that FI were normally distributed among F2 3 progenies or RILs Elliott 1999 . Linkage analysis was performed with the computer program JoinMap 3.0 van Ooijen and Voorrips 2001 to construct a genetic linkage map using the Kosambi mapping function. A likelihood of odds LOD threshold score of 3.0 and a maximum distance of 50 cM were used for initial linkage grouping of markers. Chromosome numbers Chr. were assigned according to the designation of the soybean linkage groups LGs described in the SoyBase website http www.soybase.org and the soybean composite map Song et al. 2004 . Composite interval mapping CIM was performed to identify QTL controlling FI using the MQM method with the program MapQTL 5.0 or QTLNetwork 2.0 and the appropriate cofactor selection van Ooijen and Voorrips 2001 . The permutation test Churchill and Doerge 1994 was performed with 1000 runs to determine the P 0.05 genome wide significance level for declaring QTL for FI significant. The proportion of the phenotypic variance explained by the QTL effects was estimated by CIM at the QTL peaks. The total phenotypic variance explained by the significant QTL was determined using a multivariate ANOVA model of SAS.

Molecular genetic linkage analysis was performed using the methodology described below. Nearly 600 fluorescent labeled SSR markers were surveyed for DNA polymorphisms between two parental lines of each genetic population. Of these from 250 to 300 markers which produced mainly co dominant loci were polymorphic. These markers were utilized for genotyping of the F2 3 or RIL mapping populations. For each genetic population a molecular genetic linkage map encompassing 20 soybean chromosomes and fragments was constructed. These chromosomes and fragments covered approximately 1 600 to 2500 cM. Overall marker order and genetic distance between markers in the constructed genetic map had a linear relationship with the composite linkage map Song et al. 2004 .

Four major QTLs associated with SCN resistance have been identified in PI 437654 Table 1 . These QTLs may be defined by flanking markers on the genome sequence. The genomic regions encompassed by these QTLs contain many genes encoding proteins or metabolites that may play a role in SCN resistance. These genes may also include networking regulators or transcription factors.

The first QTL SCN QTL1 is located on LG G Chromosome 18 from Sat210 to Satt610 i.e. from 1620984 by to 2664659 bp which contains 134 predicted genes. The gene identifiers of these genes are listed in . The second QTL SCN QTL2 is located on LG A2 Chromosome 8 from Sat212 to AW132402 i.e. from 9166105 by to 11868971 bp including 460 predicted genes. The gene identifiers of these genes are listed in . The third QTL SCN QTL3 is located on LG B1 Chromosome 11 from Satt665 to Satt484 i.e. from 36229108 by to 38708296 bp . This QTL includes 378 predicted genes whose identifiers are listed in . The fourth QTL SCN QTL4 is located on LG I Chromosome 20 from GMGIPSI2 to Sct189 i.e. from 41872927 by to 45550697 bp including 505 predicted genes. The gene identifiers of these genes are listed in .

In addition about 160 genetic markers have been identified within this region which may be used for fine mapping the QTLs with NILs.

Two QTL regions have been identified for PI 467312 Table 1 . One QTL is identical to the SCN QTL1 as described above. The other QTL SCN QTL5 is located on the same Chromosome 18 but is located in a different region from Sct187 to Sat372 i.e. from 60463046 by to 61095649 bp including 93 predicted genes. The gene identifiers of these genes are listed in .

For 438489B based on the results of primary QTL mapping in F2 3 progenies and confirmation study in F7 RIL population derived from the Magellan PI 438489B population two new QTLs were detected which are associated with resistance to two SCN races 5 and 14. These two QTLs were mapped to two distinct genomic regions of Chr. 4 corresponding to LG C1 Table 1 . The first QTL SCN QTL6 responsible for resistance to race 5 also called R5 QTL was flanked by the SSR markers Satt294 and Sat207 with LOD score of 7.5. A favorable allele from PI 438489B conferred greater resistance and had an additive effect on the race 5 SCN female index FI . In reference to the soybean physical map http soybeanphysicalmap.org and the 8 assembly sequence information of the soybean genome http www.phytozome.net the R5 QTL was in the supercontig 111 and was physically positioned between 40154806 and 42774138 bp. At least 207 soybean genes were predicted to exist within this genomic location based on gene annotation Table 1 and .

The second QTL SCN QTL7 is also on chromosome 4 and is for resistance to race 14 tentatively designated R14 QTL . This QTL was flanked by the SSR markers Satt565 and Satt194 with LOD score of 8.5. A favorable allele from PI 438489B conferred greater resistance and had an additive effect on FI. The R14 QTL was in the supercontig 170 and is physically positioned between 511086 and 2402538 bp. 295 soybean genes were predicted to exist within this genomic location based on gene annotation Table 1 . The gene identifiers of these genes are listed in .

Also from this population two previously identified QTLs were detected and mapped on Chrs. 18 and 8 corresponding to LGs G and A2 respectively . The first of the two previously identified QTLs SCN QTL8 was concurrently responsible for resistance to three races 1 2 and 3 with LOD scores of 8.0 7.5 and 16.0 respectively and flanked by the SSR markers Satt163 and Satt217. A favorable allele from PI 438489B conferred greater resistance and had an additive effect on all SCN female index FI . The SCN QTL8 was in the supercontig 110 and physically positioned between 998312 and 4692481 by http www.phytozome.net . This genomic region contains 457 soybean genes predicted according to gene annotation. The gene identifiers of these genes are listed in .

The second of the two previously identified QTLs SCN QTL9 was also concurrently associated with resistance to races 1 and 3 with LOD scores of 4.7 and 10.2 respectively and flanked by the SSR markers Sat406 and Satt341. A favorable allele from PI 438489B conferred greater resistance and had an additive effect on all SCN female index FI . The SCN QTL9 was in the supercontig 5 and physically positioned between 3987571 13200142 bp by on Chr. 8 http www.phytozome.net . Within the genomic region 1421 genes were predicted based on gene annotation. The gene identifiers of these genes are listed in .

Based on the results of primary QTL mapping in F2 3 progenies and confirmation study in the F7 RIL population two new QTLs were detected in PI 567516C which were significantly associated with resistance to multi races of SCN and were mapped to Chrs. 18 and 10 corresponding to LGs G and O respectively Table 1 . The first QTL SCN QTL10 was located on a new genomic region flanked by the SSR markers Satt612 and Satt472 on Chr. 18 LG G with LOD scores of 6.5 7.2 3.8 10.3 and 6.3 for races 1 2 3 5 and LY1 respectively. Favorable alleles from PI 567516C conferred greater resistance and had an additive effect on FI. In reference to the soybean physical map http soybeanphysicalmap.org and the 8 assembly sequence information of the soybean genome http www.phytozome.net this QTL was located in supercontig 8 and was physically positioned between 56453661 and 58136436 bp in which six SNP loci of the USLP 1.0 soybean array were found to be closely associated with the QTL. In addition 194 soybean genes were predicted to lie within this genomic region based on gene annotation data Table 1 . The gene identifiers of these genes are listed in .

The second QTL SCN QTL11 was mapped to a new genomic region flanked by the SSR markers Sat038 and Satt592 on Chr. 10. Between these two markers the marker Sat331 was closely associated with the QTL peak with LOD scores of 6.6 8.2 4.2 7.0 and 11.7 for races 1 3 5 14 and LY1 respectively. A favorable allele was inherited from PI 567156C and had an additive effect on FI. In reference to the soybean physical map http soybeanphysicalmap.org and the 8 assembly sequence information of the soybean genome http www.phytozome.net this QTL was in the supercontig 124 and was physically positioned between 42983781 and 45480599 bp in which five SNP loci of the USLP 1.0 soybean array were found to be closely associated with the QTL. In addition 336 soybean genes were predicted to exist within this genomic region based on the gene annotation Table 1 . The gene identifiers of these genes are listed in .

All QTLs identified in the Examples above are summarized in Table 1. Gene identifiers of those flanking markers SEQ ID Nos. 1 22 associated with these QTLs are listed in . Many other markers may also exist within each QTL which may be useful in fine mapping the loci responsible for SCN resistance.

A series of different soybean populations may be developed to facilitate fine mapping. An integrated approach may be applied to these fine mapping populations to pinpoint candidate genes associated with SCN resistance and narrow down the QTL regions until resistance genes underlying these QTL regions are cloned. Individual genes shown to be responsible for SCN resistance are introduced into soybean strains that are susceptible to SCN infection.

All genes encompassed by the QTLs listed in Table 1 and described in the Examples above are listed by their gene identifiers in . The sequences of these genes may be obtained from publicly available databases and are hereby incorporated expressly into this disclosure by reference. Examples of such databases include by are not limited to GenBank maintained by NCBI as well as soybean specific databases at the following link http soybase.org.

While the foregoing instrumentalities have been described in some detail for purposes of clarity and understanding it will be clear to one skilled in the art from a reading of this disclosure that various changes in form and detail can be made without departing from the true scope of the invention. For example all the techniques and apparatus described above may be used in various combinations. All publications patents patent applications or other documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication patent patent application or other document were individually indicated to be incorporated by reference for all purposes.

In addition to those references that are cited in the text additional information for those abbreviated citations is listed below. The content of all patents patent applications or other publications cited in this disclosure are incorporated by reference into this disclosure.

