---

title: Collecting and analyzing user activities on mobile computing devices
abstract: A mechanism for collecting and analyzing user information available on a mobile computing device is described. Information is retrieved from different components of the mobile computing device and analyzed for relationships therein. Metrics and rules are applied to the information to generate results. The results are displayed or exported to one or more components of the mobile computing device or external devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08316038&OS=08316038&RS=08316038
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08316038
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100602
---
The disclosure generally relates to the field of data collection and data mining in computing devices.

As mobile computing technology advances more and more applications become available for mobile computing devices. As a result users use the mobile computing devices to perform more activities. In addition mobile computing devices are also equipped with increasing number of sensors such as Global Positioning System GPS receivers accelerometers and proximity sensors. These sensors coupled with the increased number of applications give users access to even more information than has previously been available.

The information from the different sources has inherently relationships e.g. the GPS receiver tracks the current geographic location while the calendar application provides the user s scheduling information . Currently there is no solution to automatically collect and analyze the user information available on multiple sources of the mobile computing device to discover the inherent relationships and to provide the user with summaries of the collected user information and the relationships. Accordingly there is lacking in the art inter alia techniques for collecting and analyzing user activities on a mobile computing device.

The Figures FIGS. and the following description relate to preferred embodiments by way of illustration only. It should be noted that from the following discussion alternative embodiments of the structures and methods disclosed herein will be readily recognized as viable alternatives that may be employed without departing from the principles of what is claimed.

Reference will be made in detail to several embodiments examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying figures. It is noted that wherever practicable similar or like reference numbers may be used in the figures and may indicate similar or like functionality. The figures depict embodiments of the disclosed system or method for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following description that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles described herein.

One embodiment of a disclosed system and method and non transitory computer readable storage medium collects and analyzes user information available on a mobile computing device. Information is retrieved from different components of the mobile computing device and analyzed for relationships therein. Metrics and rules are applied to the information to generate results. The results are displayed or exported to one or more components of the mobile computing device or external devices.

In one example embodiment the configuration as disclosed may be configured for use between a mobile computing device that may be host device and an accessory device. and illustrate one embodiment of a mobile computing device . illustrates one embodiment of a first positional state of the mobile computing device having telephonic functionality e.g. a mobile phone or smartphone. illustrates one embodiment of a second positional state of the mobile computing device having telephonic functionality e.g. a mobile phone smartphone netbook or laptop computer. The mobile computing device is configured to host and execute a phone application for placing and receiving telephone calls.

It is noted that for ease of understanding the principles disclosed herein are in an example context of a mobile computing device with telephonic functionality operating in a mobile telecommunications network. However the principles disclosed herein may be applied in other duplex or multiplex telephonic contexts such as devices with telephonic functionality configured to directly interface with public switched telephone networks PSTN and or data networks having voice over internet protocol VoIP functionality. Likewise the mobile computing device is only by way of example and the principles of its functionality apply to other computing devices e.g. desktop computers server computers and the like.

The mobile computing device includes a first portion and a second portion . The first portion comprises a screen for display of information or data and may include navigational mechanisms. These aspects of the first portion are further described below. The second portion comprises a keyboard and also is further described below. The first positional state of the mobile computing device may be referred to as an open position in which the first portion of the mobile computing device slides in a first direction exposing the second portion of the mobile computing device or vice versa in terms of movement . The mobile computing device remains operational in either the first positional state or the second positional state.

The mobile computing device is configured to be of a form factor that is convenient to hold in a user s hand for example a personal digital assistant PDA or a smart phone form factor. For example the mobile computing device can have dimensions ranging from 7.5 to 15.5 centimeters in length 5 to 15 centimeters in width 0.5 to 2.5 centimeters in thickness and weigh between 50 and 250 grams.

The mobile computing device includes a speaker a screen and an optional navigation area as shown in the first positional state. The mobile computing device also includes a keypad which is exposed in the second positional state. The mobile computing device also includes a microphone not shown . The mobile computing device also may include one or more switches not shown . The one or more switches may be buttons sliders or rocker switches and can be mechanical or solid state e.g. touch sensitive solid state switch .

The screen of the mobile computing device is for example a 240 240 a 320 320 a 320 480 or a 640 480 touch sensitive including gestures display screen. The screen can be structured from for example such as glass plastic thin film or composite material. In one embodiment the screen may be 1.5 inches to 5.5 inches or 4 centimeters to 14 centimeters diagonally. The touch sensitive screen may be a transflective liquid crystal display LCD screen. In alternative embodiments the aspect ratios and resolution may be different without departing from the principles of the inventive features disclosed within the description. By way of example embodiments of the screen comprises an active matrix liquid crystal display AMLCD a thin film transistor liquid crystal display TFT LCD an organic light emitting diode OLED an interferometric modulator display IMOD a liquid crystal display LCD or other suitable display device. In an embodiment the display displays color images. In another embodiment the screen further comprises a touch sensitive display e.g. pressure sensitive resistive electrically sensitive capacitive acoustically sensitive SAW or surface acoustic wave photo sensitive infra red including a digitizer for receiving input data commands or information from a user. The user may use a stylus a finger or another suitable input device for data entry such as selecting from a menu or entering text data.

The optional navigation area is configured to control functions of an application executing in the mobile computing device and visible through the screen . For example the navigation area includes an x way x is a numerical integer e.g. 5 navigation ring that provides cursor control selection and similar functionality. In addition the navigation area may include selection buttons to select functions displayed through a user interface on the screen . In addition the navigation area also may include dedicated function buttons for functions such as for example a calendar a web browser an e mail client or a home screen. In this example the navigation ring may be implemented through mechanical solid state switches dials or a combination thereof. In an alternate embodiment the navigation area may be configured as a dedicated gesture area which allows for gesture interaction and control of functions and operations shown through a user interface displayed on the screen .

The keypad area may be a numeric keypad e.g. a dialpad or a numeric keypad integrated with an alpha or alphanumeric keypad or character keypad e.g. a keyboard with consecutive keys of Q W E R T Y A Z E R T Y or other equivalent set of keys on a keyboard such as a DVORAK keyboard or a double byte character keyboard .

Although not illustrated it is noted that the mobile computing device also may include an expansion slot. The expansion slot is configured to receive and support expansion cards or media cards . Examples of memory or media card form factors include COMPACTFLASH SD CARD XD CARD MEMORY STICK MULTIMEDIA CARD SDIO and the like.

Referring next to a block diagram illustrates components of an architecture of a mobile computing device with telephonic functionality according to one embodiment. By way of example the architecture illustrated in will be described with respect to the mobile computing device of and . The mobile computing device includes a central processor a power supply and a radio subsystem . Examples of a central processor include processing chips and system based on architectures such as ARM including cores made by microprocessor manufacturers ARM XSCALE AMD ATHLON SEMPRON or PHENOM INTEL ATOM XSCALE CELERON CORE PENTIUM or ITANIUM IBM CELL POWER ARCHITECTURE SUN SPARC and the like.

The central processor is configured for operation with a computer operating system . The operating system is an interface between hardware and an application with which a user typically interfaces. The operating system is responsible for the management and coordination of activities and the sharing of resources of the mobile computing device . The operating system provides a host environment for applications that are run on the mobile computing device . As a host one of the purposes of an operating system is to handle the details of the operation of the mobile computing device . Examples of an operating system include PALM OS and WEBOS MICROSOFT WINDOWS including WINDOWS 7 WINDOWS CE and WINDOWS MOBILE SYMBIAN OS RIM BLACKBERRY OS APPLE OS including MAC OS and IPHONE OS GOOGLE ANDROID and LINUX.

The central processor communicates with an audio system an image capture subsystem e.g. camera video or scanner flash memory RAM memory and a short range radio module e.g. Bluetooth Wireless Fidelity WiFi component e.g. IEEE 802.11 . The central processor communicatively couples these various components or modules through a data line or bus . The power supply powers the central processor the radio subsystem and a display driver which may be contact or inductive sensitive . The power supply may correspond to a direct current source e.g. a battery pack including rechargeable or an alternating current AC source. The power supply powers the various components through a power line or bus .

The central processor communicates with applications executing within the mobile computing device through the operating system . In addition intermediary components for example a window manager module and a screen manager module provide additional communication channels between the central processor and operating system and system components for example the display driver .

It is noted that in one embodiment central processor executes logic e.g. by way of programming code or instructions corresponding to executing applications interfaced through for example the navigation area or switches. It is noted that numerous other components and variations are possible to the hardware architecture of the computing device thus an embodiment such as shown by is just illustrative of one implementation for an embodiment.

In one embodiment the window manager module comprises a software e.g. integrated with the operating system or firmware lower level code that resides is a specific memory for that code and for interfacing with specific hardware e.g. the processor . The window manager module is configured to initialize a virtual display space which may be stored in the RAM and or the flash memory . The virtual display space includes one or more applications currently being executed by a user and the current status of the executed applications. The window manager module receives requests from user input or from software or firmware processes to show a window and determines the initial position of the requested window. Additionally the window manager module receives commands or instructions to modify a window such as resizing the window moving the window or any other command altering the appearance or position of the window and modifies the window accordingly.

The screen manager module comprises a software e.g. integrated with the operating system or firmware. The screen manager module is configured to manage content that will be displayed on the screen . In one embodiment the screen manager module monitors and controls the physical location of data displayed on the screen and which data is displayed on the screen . The screen manager module alters or updates the location of data as viewed on the screen . The alteration or update is responsive to input from the central processor and display driver which modifies appearances displayed on the screen . In one embodiment the screen manager also is configured to monitor and control screen brightness. In addition the screen manager is configured to transmit control signals to the central processor to modify power usage of the screen .

An information collection and analyzation module comprises software and or firmware configured to collect information available at other components of the mobile computing device and analyze the collected information to discover useful information such as measurements for various aspects of user activities. The module consolidates the information collected from different sources and stores the consolidated information in a data repository. The module analyzes the collected information to discover relationships among the information retrieved from different sources and associates the information accordingly. The information collection and analyzation module applies metrics and rules to the associated information and exports the results to other components of the mobile computing device .

The radio subsystem includes a radio processor a radio memory and a transceiver . The transceiver may be two separate components for transmitting and receiving signals or a single component for both transmitting and receiving signals. In either instance it is referenced as a transceiver . The receiver portion of the transceiver communicatively couples with a radio signal input of the device e.g. an antenna where communication signals are received from an established call e.g. a connected or on going call . The received communication signals include voice or other sound signals received from the call and processed by the radio processor for output through the speaker . The transmitter portion of the transceiver communicatively couples a radio signal output of the device e.g. the antenna where communication signals are transmitted to an established e.g. a connected or coupled or active call. The communication signals for transmission include voice e.g. received through the microphone of the device or other sound signals that is processed by the radio processor for transmission through the transmitter of the transceiver to the established call.

In one embodiment communications using the described radio communications may be over a voice or data network. Examples of voice networks include Global System of Mobile GSM communication system a Code Division Multiple Access CDMA system and a Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS . Examples of data networks include General Packet Radio Service GPRS third generation 3G or fourth generation 4G mobile or greater High Speed Download Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA and Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX .

While other components may be provided with the radio subsystem the basic components shown provide the ability for the mobile computing device to perform radio frequency communications including telephonic communications. In an embodiment many if not all of the components under the control of the central processor are not required by the radio subsystem when a telephone call is established e.g. connected or ongoing. The radio processor may communicate with central processor using the data line or bus .

The card interface is adapted to communicate wirelessly or wired with external accessories or peripherals for example media cards inserted into the expansion slot not shown . The card interface transmits data and or instructions between the central processor and an accessory e.g. an expansion card or media card coupled within the expansion slot. The card interface also transmits control signals from the central processor to the expansion slot to configure the accessory. It is noted that the card interface is described with respect to an expansion card or media card it also may be structurally configured to couple with other types of external devices for the device for example an inductive charging station for the power supply or a printing device.

Referring now to a block diagram illustrating submodules within the information collection and analyzation module according to one embodiment. Some embodiments of the module have different and or other submodules than the ones described herein. Similarly the functions can be distributed among the submodules in accordance with other embodiments in a different manner than is described here. As illustrated the information collection and analyzation module includes an information exchange interface module an analytics engine a metrics and rules management module and a data repository .

The information exchange interface module is configured to collect information from other components of the mobile computing device and export information to such components or external devices. Examples of the components include software applications such as a calendar application an email application a contact management application and on device sensors or modules circuits such as a clock a global positioning system GPS receiver and an accelerometer. In one embodiment the information exchange interface module retrieves data from a component by transmitting a request in a protocol supported by the component. For example the module may invoke an application programming interface API function call to a software application supporting the API to request data from that application. Alternatively or additionally the information exchange interface module may configure other components e.g. through API function calls to periodically provide information to the module .

The information exchange interface module consolidates the information collected from different components by converting the collected information into a standard format and storing the converted information in the data repository . Information retrieved from different components may be in different formats e.g. presentation semantics markup language character encoding standard etc. . The information exchange interface module converts the retrieved information from their original formats into a standard format e.g. Extensible Markup Language XML . The following text is an example of converted information about an email message expressed in XML 

The information exchange interface module exports information to other components of the mobile computing device and or to external devices e.g. a desktop computer a remote server a standalone GPS device . Before exporting information to a component device the module converts the information into a format accepted by the recipient component device. The information exchange interface module exports information to a component using protocol calls such as application programming interface API function calls and transmits information to an external device through components such as the short range radio module and the radio subsystem using a transmission means e.g. Bluetooth supported by the recipient device.

The analytics engine is configured to analyze the retrieved information to discover additional information. For example responsive to geographic location information retrieved from the on device GPS receiver and or motion information from the on device accelerometer the analytics engine can estimate the speed and direction of the user and as a result infer whether the user is walking driving or moving using other modes of transportation such as a bicycle. The analytics engine can further determine the user s destination and estimate the arrival time by analyzing information retrieved from other sources such as the on device clock for the current day and time and reference the calendar application for the user s schedule for purposes of determining the user s expected arrival time and the scheduled arrival time in the calendar application. In one embodiment the analytics engine processes the information stored in the data repository using data search capabilities and statistical algorithms to discover patterns and correlations among the information. As shown the analytics engine includes a relationship evaluation engine .

The relationship evaluation engine is configured to analyze the information to discover relationships among them. For example information in a calendar entry retrieved from the calendar application indicates that the user is scheduled to attend an on site meeting in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office USPTO and information from the on device GPS receiver indicates that during that time range the user s latitude and longitude is 38.803054 77.064012 . The analytics engine can derive from such information that the received latitude and longitude information probably is associated with the USPTO s location and store this association in the data repository . As a result if the GPS subsequently indicates that the user s geographic location is approximate to this latitude and longitude again the analytics engine can infer that the user probably is revisiting the USPTO and as an example it could automatically add that information to the calendar based on the duration spent at the USPTO.

The metrics and rules management module is configured to apply a set of predefined metrics to the information in the data repository . A metric is a function that takes into account one or more pieces of information to generate one or more outputs. The user can create modify or remove the metrics through a user interface provided by the metrics and rules management module . The following are example metrics designed to measure different aspects of the user s activities.

One example metric measures the average number of emails the user sends out per day. To apply this metric the metrics and rules management module queries for the outgoing emails in the information retrieved from the email application determines a total number of such emails and divides the total number by the number of days during which such emails were sent out. Similarly the user can create metrics measuring the number of emails received viewed responded during a day the average length of responding emails e.g. number of words or characters the total number of new email threads created during the past day week month and the average time spent on emailing per day. The user can also create metrics to track the number of interactions e.g. email exchanges phone calls in person meetings with a specific person during a specific period of time e.g. the number of times of direct interface with the supervisor during the past week the number of completed tasks the number of memorandums edited the number of new contacts added and the time spent on using a specific application and the frequency of such usage. Metrics may also be used to determine the length of time spent on specific email exchanges. The user can also assign users to groups so that the user can understand her interaction times with those groups.

Another example metric measures the average daily time the user spent in attending meetings. To apply this metric the metrics and rules management module queries for past meeting appointments in the information retrieved from the calendar application to identify the potential meetings the user may have attended and their associated geographic locations for in person meetings and phone numbers for phone conferences . The metrics and rules management module can then identify those meetings the user actually attended by comparing the associated information with other user information tracked during the scheduled meeting time. For example if the geographic location information retrieved from the on device GPS receiver matches the scheduled meeting location and or the phone activity information retrieved from the phone application matches the dial in phone number for the meeting then the metrics and rules management module determines that the user actually attended the meeting. The metrics and rules management module then calculates the average daily time spent in attending these meetings by summing the meeting time and dividing the total with the number of days. Similarly the user can create metrics for measuring the average daily time spent on business and or personal phone calls the average daily time spent on working commuting driving and the average mileage traveled drove walked. The user can also create metrics to track user activities based on the user s location such as the total number of phone calls made while visiting the USPTO the average total time spent at a specific movie theater restaurant campus.

In addition to metrics the metrics and rules management module also applies rules to the information in the data repository . A rule is a piece of logic that takes into account one or more pieces of information to perform or not to perform one or more actions. The resulting actions of the rules may involve exporting information to other components of the mobile computing device or external devices. Similar to the metrics the user can create modify or remove the rules through a user interface provided by the metrics and rules management module .

One example rule exports the geographic location of an upcoming on site meeting to a GPS application such that the GPS application can direct the user to the meeting location on time. To apply this rule the metrics and rules management module periodically queries for the geographic locations of the upcoming scheduled events retrieved from the calendar application and compares the geographic locations with the current user location retrieved from the on device GPS receiver to determine whether the user is already on site. If the two locations are the same or close by then the metrics and rules management module determines that no direction is needed otherwise the module exports the meeting location to the GPS application and instructs the GPS application to direct the user to the scheduled location on time.

Another example rule exports the user s actual geographic locations and activities to the calendar application. To apply this rule the metrics and rules management module queries for the past user activities e.g. phone calls made emails sent out meetings attended correlates the activities to the user s geographic locations while the activities took place and exports such information to the calendar application. As a result the calendar application creates entries that track the user s activities geographic locations and corresponding time ranges. Similar rules can be created to export such information to a time billing software to automatically capture the user s business activities.

As shown the metrics and rules management module includes a presentation module . The presentation module is configured to present the results of the metrics or the rules applied by the metrics and rules management module . The user can specify through a user interface provided by the metrics and rules management module when the metrics or the rules should be applied and how the result should be presented. For example the user may specify that a set of metrics e.g. those related to summarizing user activities during the previous day be applied at every midnight and the results be exported to an excel file. The user can also specify the formats of the display e.g. a pie chart of personal time vs. work time during the previous day . Alternatively or additionally the user can specify that a metric or rule be applied upon the occurrence of a specific event such as when a specific scheduled event is about to take place e.g. generating an activity report when the invoice is due . The user could also set a rule to automatically send out an email at a certain time to summarize the user s activities for the day week month or year.

The data repository stores data used by the information collection and analyzation module . Examples of such data include the retrieved information the discovered relationships the metrics and the rules. The data repository may be a relational database or any other type of database.

Referring now to a flowchart of a process illustrating a process for the information collection and analyzation module to collect information available at a mobile computing device and analyze the collected information according to one embodiment. Other embodiments can perform the steps of the process in different orders. Moreover other embodiments can include different and or additional steps than the ones described herein.

As shown the information collection and analyzation module retrieves information from a plurality of components of a mobile computing device . In one embodiment the module retrieves the information from a component by transmitting to the component a request in a protocol supported by the component. The module converts the information from different sources into a standard format and stores the information in the data repository .

The information collection and analyzation module analyzes the retrieved user information to identify relationships among the user information retrieved from different sources and associates the related information according to the relationships. For example the module may associate user information e.g. user activities user geographic location sharing a common attribute e.g. tracked at the same time as being related.

The information collection and analyzation module applies metrics and rules to the associated user information and exports the results to various components of the mobile computing device or external devices. For example the information collection and analyzation module may periodically generate reports including the metric results and display the reports to the user.

The described configuration provides a mechanism for automatically collecting user information available on a mobile computing device and analyzing such information. Because the mobile computing device has access to a rich collection of user information this mechanism beneficially enables the user to utilize such user information to automatically and or periodically generate useful information.

Some portions of above description describe the embodiments in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information for example as illustrated and described with respect to . These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

As used herein any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular element feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. For example some embodiments may be described using the term connected to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. In another example some embodiments may be described using the term coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. The embodiments are not limited in this context.

As used herein the terms comprises comprising includes including has having or any other variation thereof are intended to cover a non exclusive inclusion. For example a process method article or apparatus that comprises a list of elements is not necessarily limited to only those elements but may include other elements not expressly listed or inherent to such process method article or apparatus. Further unless expressly stated to the contrary or refers to an inclusive or and not to an exclusive or. For example a condition A or B is satisfied by any one of the following A is true or present and B is false or not present A is false or not present and B is true or present and both A and B are true or present .

In addition use of the a or an are employed to describe elements and components of the embodiments herein. This is done merely for convenience and to give a general sense of the invention. This description should be read to include one or at least one and the singular also includes the plural unless it is obvious that it is meant otherwise.

Upon reading this disclosure those of skill in the art will appreciate still additional alternative structural and functional designs for a system and a process for collecting information available on a mobile computing device and analyzing the collected information to discover useful information through the disclosed principles herein. Thus while particular embodiments and applications have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosed embodiments are not limited to the precise construction and components disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations which will be apparent to those skilled in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the method and apparatus disclosed herein without departing from the spirit and scope defined in the appended claims.

