---

title: System and method of quality of service enablement for over the top applications in a telecommunications system
abstract: A system, method, and node providing a predefined Quality of Service (QoS) level to an Over The Top (OTT) service provider in a telecommunications network. A User Equipment (UE) initiates an IP-based application session (e.g., Hyper Text Transfer Protocol (HTTP) session) with the OTT service provider by sending an application-dependent message toward an OTT application server. The method begins with a proxy node in the telecommunications network intercepting the application-dependent message. The proxy node then modifies the application-dependent message by adding a subscriber identification to the header of the application-dependent message. The proxy node forwards the modified application-dependent message to the OTT application server. The OTT application server then sends a request having the subscriber identification to the telecommunications network with a QoS requirement for the HTTP session. Next, a network policy node determines an appropriate QoS level for the subscriber. A network gateway then enforces the determined QoS level for the HTTP session with the OTT service provider.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08982893&OS=08982893&RS=08982893
owner: Telefonaktiebolaget L M Ericsson (publ)
number: 08982893
owner_city: Stockholm
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20100519
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 310 320 filed Mar. 4 2010 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety.

The present invention relates to communications networks. More particularly and not by way of limitation the present invention is directed to a system and method of Quality of Service QoS enablement for Over The Top OTT Applications in a telecommunications network.

With the increased popularity and enhanced services available on the Internet a wide variety of OTT service providers such as Google Skype Vonage Facebook etc. have established a large base of subscribers. This phenomenon has made bit pipes out of the carriers which removes service carriers from lucrative revenue opportunities in the services domain.

Today s service carriers prefer to be a part of the value chain by utilizing their assets i.e. subscriber base network components etc. . However a relationship between the carriers and OTT service providers has not been forthcoming due to a lack of technical and business solutions that can merge their independent assets with their subscriber bases.

The current solution does not allow the OTT service providers to deliver their applications over the QoS based communication channels. In this specific case the current QoS request sent by the OTT service providers to the carriers does not have enough information for the carriers to identify the specific user with the QoS needs. This is because the request from the OTT service provider contains only the user s IP address without any other information. Typically the IP address associated with the user that arrives from the OTT service providers to the carriers network undergoes a translation process in the Network Address Translation NAT function. This makes it difficult to uniquely associate the IP address to a user by the time a QoS request from the OTT service providers is received by the carriers policy enforcement server thus rendering it impossible for the carriers network to apply the QoS to that specific user.

The present invention provides QoS enablement of OTT Applications in a telecommunications network. The present invention provides this QoS enablement by performing header enrichment in the uplink and translating a WS Restful API based QoS request into a Policy Control message.

In one embodiment the present invention is directed to a method of providing a predefined QoS level to an OTT service provider in a telecommunications network in which a UE initiates an IP based application session e.g. an HTTP session with the OTT service provider by sending an application dependent message e.g. an HTTP message toward an OTT application server. A proxy node in the telecommunications network intercepts the application dependent message and modifies the application dependent message by adding a subscriber identification to the header of the application dependent message. The proxy node then forwards the modified application dependent message to the OTT application server. The OTT application server then sends a request having the subscriber identification to the telecommunications network with a QoS requirement for the IP based application e.g. HTTP session. Next a network policy node determines an appropriate QoS level for the subscriber. A network gateway then enforces the determined QoS level for the IP based application e.g. HTTP session with the OTT service provider.

In another embodiment the present invention is directed to a system for providing QoS to an OTT service provider in a telecommunications network in which a UE initiates an IP based application e.g. HTTP session with the OTT service provider by sending an application dependent message toward an OTT application server. The system includes an OTT application server for providing an OTT service by the OTT service provider in the telecommunications network. The OTT application server is capable of initiating an IP based application e.g. HTTP session upon receipt of the application dependent message. The system also includes a proxy function within the telecommunications network. The proxy function intercepts the application dependent message prior to receipt by the OTT application server modifies the application dependent message by adding a subscriber identification associated with the UE to a header of the application dependent message and forwards the modified application dependent message to the OTT application server. The OTT application server sends a request having the subscriber identification to the telecommunications network with a QoS requirement for the IP based application e.g. HTTP session. Furthermore the system includes a network policy node for determining an appropriate QoS level for the IP based application e.g. HTTP session based on the subscriber identification and the QoS requirement. In addition the system includes a network gateway for enforcing the determined QoS level for the IP based application e.g. HTTP session with the OTT service provider.

In another embodiment the present invention is directed to a node for enabling a telecommunications network to provide a QoS level to an OTT service provider. The node intercepts an application dependent message sent by a UE initiating an IP based application e.g. HTTP session with an OTT application servicer prior to receipt by the OTT application server. The node then modifies the application dependent message by adding a subscriber identification to a header of the application dependent message and forwarding the modified application dependent message to the OTT application server. When the OTT application server sends a request having the subscriber identification to the telecommunications network with a QoS requirement for the IP based application e.g. HTTP session the network determines an appropriate QoS level for the subscriber and enforces the determined QoS level for the IP based application e.g. HTTP session with the OTT service provider.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. However it will be understood by those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the present invention.

The present invention is a system and method for QoS enablement of OTT Applications in a telecommunications network. QoS for the OTT service providers is achieved by performing header enrichment in the uplink and translating a WS RESTful Application Programming Interface API based QoS request into a Policy Control e.g. Rx message.

With reference to the operation of providing QoS for OTT service applications will now be explained. The UE initiates an IP based application e.g. HTTP session with the third party AS such as Google Skype Vonage Facebook etc. by sending an application dependent message such as an HTTP message. The proxy node in the carriers network such as the Transparent Proxy intercepts the application dependent message before it traverses any NAT or firewall. The Transparent Proxy may query a database server such as the AAA server to download the user profile of the UE . The Transparent Proxy also modifies the application dependent message by adding a unique user ID to a message header such as an HTTP Real Time Streaming Protocol RTSP header i.e. header enrichment before forwarding the message to the third party AS . The Transparent Proxy may also include the UE capabilities within the Message header. The Transparent Proxy then forwards the modified application dependent message to the third party AS. However the third party AS is completely oblivious to the Message header enrichment. The third party AS then sends a Web Services WS RESTful API request to the SDP with the QoS requirements for the session. In one embodiment the SDP may be a Services Integration Gateway SIG and or an Ericsson Composition Engine ECE . The SDP may conduct an application layer authentication with the AAA server . In addition the SDP converts the WS RESTful API request to a Policy Control message such as an Rx message and forwards it to the PCRF . The Policy Control message contains the unique subscriber Identification ID which was earlier included in the application dependent message e.g. HTTP RTSP header.

Upon receiving the Policy Control message from the SDP the PCRF first identifies the subscriber by utilizing the unique subscriber ID. The PCRF then sends a gateway control and QoS rules provisioning message e.g. Gx Gxa etc. to the PDN GW with the proper QoS requirements. The PDN GW then enforces the QoS in the 3 4G RAN . The UE may then accomplish an IP based application e.g. HTTP session with the appropriate QoS.

In step upon receiving the Policy Control message from the SDP the PCRF identifies the subscriber by utilizing the unique subscriber ID. Next in step the PCRF then sends a gateway control and QoS rules provisioning message e.g. Gx Gxa etc. to the PDN GW with the proper QoS requirements. In step the PDN GW enforces the QoS in the 3 4G RAN . The UE may then accomplish an IP based application e.g. HTTP session with the appropriate QoS.

In an alternate embodiment of the present invention in addition to providing header enrichment with a unique subscriber ID to the application dependent message the Transparent Proxy may provide the device capabilities of the UE so that the OTT AS can select the proper content format suitable for that specific UE. Furthermore the Transparent Proxy may also insert advertisement targeting for the end user. The revenue from the ad insertion can be shared by the OTT service provider and the carrier. In another embodiment the SIG may prevent Denial of Service DOS on the carriers network by performing the service layer authentication with the AAA server. Additionally the Transparent Proxy can reformat the content in the downlink based on the user s UE and QoS profile.

There are several advantages over existing systems involving OTT service applications. The present invention enables the end users to have a satisfactory experience for the contents delivered by the OTT service providers. The present invention also allows the OTT service providers and the carriers to develop a beneficial relationship for delivering high quality content to the end users.

As will be recognized by those skilled in the art the innovative concepts described in the present application can be modified and varied over a wide range of applications. Accordingly the scope of patented subject matter should not be limited to any of the specific exemplary teachings discussed above but is instead defined by the following claims.

