---

title: 3-3-di-substituted-oxindoles as inhibitors of translation initiation
abstract: Compositions and methods for inhibiting translation using 3-(5-tert-Butyl-2-Hydroxy-phenyl)-3-phenyl-1,3-dihydro-indol-2-one and/or its derivatives are provided. Compositions, methods and kits for treating (1) cellular proliferative disorders, (2) non-proliferative, degenerative disorders, (3) viral infections, and/or (4) disorders associated with viral infections, using 3-(5-tert-butyl-2-hydroxy-phenyl)-3-phenyl-1,3-dihydro-indol-2-one and/or its derivatives are described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08268879&OS=08268879&RS=08268879
owner: President and Fellows of Harvard College
number: 08268879
owner_city: Cambridge
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100609
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 368 588 filed Feb. 10 2009 which is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 463 421 filed Jun. 9 2006 which is a continuation of PCT application no. PCT US2005 004373 designating the United States and filed Feb. 11 2005 which claims the benefit of the filing date of U.S. provisional application No. 60 544 384 filed Feb. 13 2004 each of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant Number 5 U19 CA87427 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to novel compounds which inhibit translation initiation pharmaceutical compositions of the novel compounds and methods of treating medical disorders.

Translation the mRNA directed synthesis of proteins occurs in three distinct steps initiation elongation and termination. Translation initiation is a complex process in which the two ribosomal subunits and methionyl tRNA met tRNA assemble on a properly aligned mRNA to commence chain elongation at the AUG initiation codon. The established scanning mechanism for initiation involves the formation of a ternary complex among eukaryotic initiation factor 2 eIF2 GTP and met tRNA. The ternary complex recruits the 40S ribosomal subunit to form the 43S pre initiation complex. This complex recruits mRNA in cooperation with other initiation factors such as eukaryotic initiation factor 4E eIF4E which recognizes the 7 methyl guanidine cap m GTP cap in an mRNA molecule and forms the 48S pre initiation complex. Cap recognition facilitates the 43S complex entry at the 5 end of a capped mRNA. Subsequently this complex migrates linearly until it reaches the first AUG codon where a 60S ribosomal subunit joins the complex and the first peptide bond is formed Pain 1996 236 747 771 .

Several features of the mRNA structure influence the efficiency of its translation. These include the m GTP cap the primary sequence surrounding the AUG codon and the length and secondary structure of the 5 untranslated region 5 UTR . Indeed a moderately long unstructured 5 UTR with a low G and C base content seems to be optimal to ensure high translational efficiency. Surprisingly sequence analysis of a large number of vertebrate cDNAs has shown that although most transcripts have features that ensure translational fidelity many do not appear to be designed for efficient translation Kozak 1991 115 887 903 . Many vertebrate mRNAs contain 5 UTRs that are hundreds of nucleotides long with a remarkably high GC content indicating that they are highly structured because G and C bases tend to form highly stable bonds. Because highly structured and stable 5 UTRs are the major barrier to translation mRNAs with stable secondary structure in their 5 UTR are translated inefficiently and their translation is highly dependent on the activity of translation initiation factors.

mRNAs with complex highly structured 5 UTRs include a disproportionately high number of proto oncogenes such as the G1 cyclins transcription and growth factors cytokines and other critical regulatory proteins. In contrast mRNAs that encode globins albumins histones and other housekeeping proteins rarely have highly structured GC rich 5 UTRs Kozak 1994 76 815 21 Kozak 1999 234 187 208 . The fact that genes encoding for regulatory but not for housekeeping proteins frequently produce transcripts with highly structured 5 UTRs indicates that extensive control of the expression of regulatory genes occurs at the level of translation. In other words low efficiency of translation is a control mechanism which modulates the yield of proteins such as cyclins mos c myc VEGF TNF among others that could be harmful if overproduced.

Translation initiation is a critical step in the regulation of cell growth because the expression of most oncogenes and cell growth regulatory proteins is translationally regulated. One approach to inhibiting translation initiation has recently been identified using small molecule known as translation initiation inhibitors. Without intending to be bound by theory sets forth a summary of the anti cancer mechanism of action of translation initiation inhibitors such as clotrimazole CLT and the diaryloxindole DAO compounds of the present invention. CLT inhibits translation initiation by sustained depletion of intracellular Ca stores. Depletion of intracellular Ca stores activates interferon inducible double stranded RNA activated protein kinase PKR which phosphorylates and thereby inhibits the subunit of eIF2. Since the activity of eIF2 is required for translation initiation its inhibition by compounds such as CLT reduces the overall rate of protein synthesis. Because most cell regulatory proteins are encoded for by mRNAs containing highly structured 5 UTRs they are poorly translated and their translation depends heavily on translation initiation factors such as eIF2 and eIF4. Therefore inhibition of translation initiation preferentially affects the synthesis and expression of growth regulatory proteins such as G1 cyclins. Sequential synthesis and expression of G1 cyclins D1 E and A is necessary to drive the cell cycle beyond the restriction point in late G1. Thus the decreased synthesis and expression of G1 cyclins resulting from CLT induced inhibition of translation initiation causes cell cycle arrest in G1 and inhibits cancer cell and tumor growth Aktas et al. 1998 95 8280 8285 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes .

Like CLT the n 3 polyunsaturated fatty acid eicosapentaenoic acid EPA depletes internal calcium stores and exhibits anti carcinogenic activity. Unlike CLT however EPA is a ligand of peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma PPAR a fatty acid activated transcription factor. Although EPA and other ligands of PPAR such as troglitazone and ciglitazone inhibit cell proliferation they do so in a PPAR independent manner Palakurthi et al. 2000 60 2919 and Palakurthi et al. 2001 61 6213 incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes .

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to compounds that inhibit translation initiation and the use of such compounds for treating 1 proliferative disorders 2 non proliferative degenerative disorders 3 viral infections and or 4 disorders associated with viral infections are disclosed. Certain examples are directed to the use of a combination of the compounds described herein for treating 1 proliferative disorders 2 non proliferative degenerative disorders 3 viral infections and or 4 disorders associated with viral infections.

In at least certain examples DAO compounds are provided. The terms diaryloxindole AND DAO are intended to include substituted diphenyloxindole compounds such as for example 3 5 tert butyl 2 hydroxy phenyl 3 phenyl 1 3 dihydro indol 2 one type compounds. In one example diaryloxindole compounds of the present invention are set forth in Formula I. In certain examples the diaryloxindole compounds of the present invention deplete intracellular calcium stores. In another example diaryloxindole compounds are effective to inhibit translation initiation. In one aspect the diaryloxindole compounds of the present invention include compounds comprising Formula I to Formula XIV and or the active and partially active compounds set forth in Tables 1 14 and .

In accordance with a method aspect a method of treating a proliferative disorder by providing and or administering a diaryloxindole compound to a mammal e.g. a human or a non human e.g. a non human primate is provided. In one example the proliferative disorder is cancer. In accordance with other examples a method of treating a viral infection by providing and or administering a diaryloxindole compound to a mammal e.g. a human or a non human mammal is provided.

In accordance with an additional aspect kits are provided for the treatment of 1 proliferative disorders 2 non proliferative degenerative disorders 3 viral infections and or 4 disorders associated with viral infections. In one aspect the kits comprise a diaryloxindole compound a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier and optionally instructions for use. The pharmaceutical composition can be administered to a human subject or a non human subject depending on the disorder to be treated.

It will be recognized by the person of ordinary skill in the art that the compounds compositions methods and kits disclosed herein provide significant advantages over prior technology. Compounds compositions methods and kits can be designed or selected to relieve and or alleviate symptoms in a patient suffering from one or more disorders. These and other aspects and examples are described below.

It will be recognized that the results and examples in the figures are only illustrative and other examples and illustrations will be readily recognized by the person of ordinary skill in the art given the benefit of this disclosure.

In accordance with certain examples diaryloxindole compounds that inhibit translation e.g. translation initiation are provided. Such compounds are useful for the treatment of 1 proliferative disorders 2 non proliferative degenerative disorders 3 viral infections and or 4 disorders associated with viral infections.

Certain examples are described below with reference to various chemical formulae. The chemical formulae referred to herein can exhibit the phenomena of tautomerism conformational isomerism stereo isomerism or geometric isomerism. As the formulae drawings within this specification can represent only one of the possible tautomeric conformational isomeric enantiomeric or geometric isomeric forms it should be understood that the invention encompasses any tautomeric conformational isomeric enantiomeric or geometric isomeric forms which exhibit biological or pharmacological activity as described herein.

The compounds and compositions provided below are effective to inhibit translation e.g. translation initiation at least to the extent necessary for effective treatment of one or more disorders described herein. While in certain examples translation may be substantially inhibited such that little or no activity results in other examples the inhibition is at least sufficient to relieve and or alleviate the symptoms from a selected disorder to be treated.

In accordance with certain embodiments compounds of the invention are represented by the generic formula set forth below.

In accordance with certain aspects Ris selected from the group consisting of halo alky un substituted alkyl aryl halogen CN COOH alkenyl alkynyl alkoxy cycloalkoxy H 2 OH 2 Me 2 OMe 2 CHCOH 2 NHFmoc 2 NHSOCHPh wherein Ph is phenyl 2 NHSOCH 2 NHSO 4 tBu Ph 2 NHSO 4 NHAc Ph 2 NHSO 3 CF Ph 2 NHSO 4 NO Ph 2 NHSO 4 OMe Ph 2 NHSO 4 Br Ph 2 NHSO 4 I Ph 2 NHSO 4 Ph Ph 2 NHSO 4 OPh Ph 2 NHAc 2 NHCO 4 tBu Ph 3 O CH NMe 3 O CH N 3 t Bu 3 OMe 3 Cl 3 F 3 Me 3 t Bu 3 NHSO 4 tBu Ph 4 Cl 4 F 4 Br 4 OH 4 Et 4 O CH CHCH 4 n propyl 4 i Bu 4 n Bu 4 O CH OH 4 OMe 4 t Bu 4 OPh 4 Ph 4 NMe 4 ethyl 5 Br 5 Cl 5 I 5 sulfonic acid 5 nitro 5 ethyl 5 fluoro 5 OCF 5 NO 5 OMe 5 NH 5 Et 5 F 5 N 5 NHSO 1 napthyl 6 ethyl 6 Br H 6 Et 6 Cl 7 ethyl 7 COOH 7 COOMe 7 Br 7 CF 7 OMe 7 I and 7 Et Ris selected from the group consisting of halo alky un substituted alkyl aryl halogen CN COOH alkenyl alkynyl alkoxy cycloalkoxy H 2 Me and 2 OMe 2 OH 3 Cl 3 F 3 Me 4 F 4 O CH CHCH 4 OH 4 t Bu 4 O CH CHCH 7 formamide N 2 4 Amino phenyl ethyl 7 COOH 7 CHOH and 7 CH N imidazole Ris selected from the group consisting of un substituted aryl un substituted heterocyclic un substituted heteroaromatic Ar NHSOAr Ar NHCOAr H 

In accordance with a first example diaryloxindole compounds are represented by Formula I set forth below.

In at least certain examples A is selected from the group consisting of carbocyclic aromatic ring heterocyclic ring and heteroaromatic ring Ris selected from the group consisting of halo alky un substituted alkyl aryl halogen CN COOH alkenyl alkynyl alkoxy and cycloalkoxy Ris selected from the group consisting of un substituted aryl un substituted heterocyclic un substituted heteroaromatic Ar NHSOAr and Ar NHCOAr Ris selected from the group consisting of un substituted aryl un substituted heterocyclic un substituted heteroaromatic Ar NHSOAr and Ar NHCOAr Ris selected from the group consisting of un substituted aryl un substituted heterocyclic un substituted heteroaromatic Ar NHSOAr and Ar NHCOAr X is selected from the group consisting of unsubstituted or substituted nitrogen oxygen sulfur and carbon Y is selected from the group consisting of unsubstituted or substituted nitrogen oxygen sulfur and carbon and n 0 4.

In accordance with a second example diaryloxindole compounds are represented by Formula II set forth below.

In at least certain examples Ris selected from the group consisting of H 5 bromo 5 chloro 7 bromo 5 iodo 5 OCF 5 sulfonic acid 5 nitro 4 bromo 6 bromo 5 ethyl 7 ethyl 4 ethyl 6 ethyl 7 iodo 5 fluoro 7 COOH and 7 COOMe and Ris H. In other examples Ris 4 Cl and Ris selected from the group consisting of 7 formamide N 2 4 Amino phenyl ethyl 7 COOH 7 CHOH and 7 CH N imidazole.

In accordance with a third example diaryloxindole compounds are represented by Formula III set forth below.

In at least certain examples X is selected from the group consisting of oxygen NH and CH and R is selected from the group consisting of 3 CHCH COMe NH 3 CHCH COMe NHFmoc 3 t Bu 3 t Bu 3 OH 3 O CH CHCH 3 O CH Br 3 O CH NMe 3 O CH N 

In accordance with a fourth example diaryloxindole compounds are represented by Formula IV set forth below.

In at least certain examples R is selected from the group consisting of 4 F 4 O CH CHCH 3 Cl 3 F 3 Me 2 Me and 2 OMe.

In accordance with a fifth example diaryloxindole compounds are represented by Formula V set forth below.

In at least certain examples R is selected from the group consisting of SO camphor CO CH COOH CO CH CONHOH CHCHNHBoc CO CH COOH CHCOOH CHCO Leu Phe CHOH and CHCOOMe.

In accordance with a sixth example diaryloxindole compounds are represented by Formula VI set forth below.

In at least certain examples Ris selected from the group consisting of 7 Br 4 Cl 5 Br 5 NO 5 I 5 OMe 5 Cl 7 CF 5 NH 4 Br 6 Br H 7 OMe 7 I 5 Et 7 Et 4 Et 6 Et 5 F 5 N 7 COOH 4 Cl 6 Cl and 5 NHSO napthyl and Ris H. In other examples Ris 4 Cl and Ris 7 COOH.

In accordance with a seventh example diaryloxindole compounds are represented by Formula VII set forth below.

In at least certain examples Ris selected from the group consisting of H 2 OH 3 O CH NMe 3 O CH N 3 t Bu 2 OMe 3 OMe 4 OH 4 n propyl 4 i Bu 4 n Bu 4 O CH OH 4 OMe 2 CHCOH and 4 t Bu and Ris H. In other examples Ris selected from the group consisting of 2 OH 4 OMe 3 t Bu 2 OMe 2 OH 4 OH 4 OPh 4 Ph and 4 NMe and Ris selected from the group consisting of 2 OH 4 OH and 4 t Bu.

In accordance with an eighth example diaryloxindole compounds are represented by Formula VIII set forth below.

In at least certain examples Ris selected from the group consisting of H and 7 COOH Ris selected from a group consisting of H 2 Me 3 Me 3 F and 3 CF and Ris selected from a group consisting of H 2 NHFmoc 2 NHSOCHPh 2 NHSOCH 2 NHSO 4 tBu Ph 2 NHSO 4 NHAc Ph 2 NHSO 3 CF Ph 2 NHSO 4 NO Ph 2 NHSO 4 OMe Ph 2 NHSO 4 Br Ph 2 NHSO 4 I Ph 2 NHSO 4 Ph Ph 2 NHSO 4 OPh Ph 2 NHAc 2 NHCO 4 tBu Ph and 3 NHSO 4 tBu Ph.

In accordance with a ninth example diaryloxindole compounds are represented by Formula IX set forth below.

In at least certain examples R is selected from the group consisting of Ph Me CH 4 Cl Ph CHCHCH CHOH CHCOOH CHOCHCHCH SO 4 O n Bu Ph SO 4 O Ph Ph SO 4 NHAc Ph SO 4 CHCHCOMe Ph SO 4 OMe Ph and SO 4 t Bu Ph.

In accordance with a tenth example diaryloxindole compounds are represented by Formulae X XII set forth below.

In accordance with an eleventh example diaryloxindole compounds are represented by Formula XIII set forth below.

In at least certain examples R is selected from the group consisting of 2 thiophene CH CH CHPh CCH cyclohexyl and CF pentafluorophenyl .

In accordance with a twelfth example diaryloxindole compounds are represented by Formula XIV set forth below.

In accordance with other examples diaryloxindole compounds include but are not limited to compounds comprising Formula I to Formula XIV and the active and or partially active compounds set forth in and Tables 1 14.

In at least certain examples the compounds disclosed here can be used in the treatment of cellular proliferative disorders such as cancer. Treatment of cellular proliferative disorders is intended to include but is not limited to inhibition of proliferation including rapid proliferation. As used herein the term cellular proliferative disorder includes but is not limited to disorders characterized by undesirable or inappropriate proliferation of one or more subset s of cells in a multicellular organism. The term cancer refers to various types of malignant neoplasms most of which can invade surrounding tissues and may metastasize to different sites see for example PDR Medical Dictionary 1st edition 1995 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes . The terms neoplasm and tumor refer to an abnormal tissue that grows by cellular proliferation more rapidly than normal and continues to grow after the stimuli that initiated proliferation is removed. Id. Such abnormal tissue shows partial or complete lack of structural organization and functional coordination with the normal tissue which may be either benign i.e. benign tumor or malignant i.e. malignant tumor .

The language treatment of cellular proliferative disorders is intended to include but is not limited to the prevention of the growth of neoplasms in a subject or a reduction in the growth of pre existing neoplasms in a subject. The inhibition also can be the inhibition of the metastasis of a neoplasm from one site to another. In certain embodiments the neoplasms are sensitive to one or more diaryloxindole compounds of the present invention. Examples of the types of neoplasms intended to be encompassed by the present invention include but are not limited to those neoplasms associated with cancers of the breast skin bone prostate ovaries uterus cervix liver lung brain larynx gallbladder pancreas rectum parathyroid thyroid adrenal gland immune system neural tissue head and neck colon stomach bronchi and or kidneys.

In accordance with certain other examples methods for treating viral infections are also disclosed. Treatment of viral infections is intended to include but is not limited to the use of a diaryloxindole compound described herein to prevent the initiation of viral protein synthesis. The term viral infection as used herein refers to one or more cells which have been infected with a virus such as a DNA or RNA animal virus. As used herein RNA viruses include but are not limited to virus families such as picornaviridae e.g. polioviruses reoviridae e.g. rotaviruses togaviridae e.g. encephalitis viruses yellow fever virus rubella virus orthomyxoviridae e.g. influenza viruses Paramyxoviridae e.g. respiratory syncytial virus measles virus mumps virus parainfluenza virus rhabdoviridae e.g. rabies virus coronaviridae bunyaviridae flaviviridae filoviridae arenaviridae bunyaviridae and retroviridae e.g. human T cell lymphotropic viruses HTLV human immunodeficiency viruses HIV . As used herein DNA viruses include but are not limited to virus families such as papovaviridae e.g. papilloma viruses adenoviridae e.g. adenovirus herpesviridae e.g. herpes simplex viruses and poxyiridae e.g. variola viruses . In certain embodiments the viral infection is caused by hepatitis B virus hepatitis C virus and or HIV.

In accordance with other examples methods for treating disorders associated with viral infections are disclosed. Treatment of one or more disorders associated with viral infections is intended to include but is not limited to the use of a diaryloxindole compound described herein to reduce or alleviate one or more symptoms of a viral infection. As used herein the term disorders associated with viral infection refers to the host s response to infection by one or more viruses. Such responses include but are not limited to neurological symptoms e.g. encephalitis meningoencephalitis paralysis myelopathy neuropathy aseptic meningitis hemiparesis dementia dysphagia lack of muscular coordination impaired vision coma and the like wasting symptoms e.g. inflammatory cell infiltration perivascular cuffing of blood vessels demyelination necrosis reactive gliosis and the like gastroenteritis symptoms e.g. diarrhea vomiting cramps and the like hepatitis symptoms nausea vomiting right upper quadrant pain raised liver enzyme levels e.g. AST ALT and the like jaundice and the like hemorrhagic fever symptoms e.g. headache fever chills body pains diarrhea vomiting dizziness confusion abnormal behavior pharyngitis conjunctivitis red face red neck hemorrhage organ failure and the like oncogenic symptoms e.g. sarcomas leukemias and the like as well as rare malignancies e.g. Kaposi s sarcoma oral hairy leukoplasia lymphomas and the like immunodeficiency symptoms e.g. opportunistic infections wasting rare malignancies neurological disease fever diarrhea skin rashes and the like lesions e.g. warts e.g. common wart flat wart deep hyperkaratotic palmoplantar wart superficial mosaic type palmoplantar wart and the like epidermodysplasia mucosal lesions ulcers and the like and systemic symptoms e.g. fever chills headache muscle pain bone pain joint pain pharyngitis tonsillitis sinusitis otitis bronchitis pneumonia bronchopneumonia nausea vomiting increased salivation rash macules lymphadenopothy arthritis ulcers photosensitivity weight loss irritability restlessness anxiety coma death and the like . Disorders associated with viral infections are described in 4Ed. 2001 Lippincott Williams Wilkins and the introduction to medical virology website web.uct.ac.za depts. mmi jmoodie introvi2.html incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes.

In accordance with other examples methods for treating non proliferative degenerative disorders associated with aberrant translation initiation using a diaryloxindole compound described herein to alleviate and or reduce one or more symptoms associated with a non proliferative degenerative disorder are disclosed. Treatment of non proliferative degenerative diseases is intended to include but is not limited to the use of diaryloxindole compounds. As used herein the term non proliferative degenerative disorder is intended to include but is not limited to diseases characterized by a loss of function of cells tissues and or organs due to aberrant translation initiation. Non proliferative degenerative disorders include but are not limited to disorders such as Alzheimer s disease and insulin resistance.

The term calcium releaser as used herein refers to molecules which cause a sustained depletion of intracellular Ca stores and inhibit translation initiation. Calcium releasers include but are not limited to molecules such as clotrimazole CLT fatty acids such as EPA diaryloxindole compounds of the present invention including but not limited to compounds comprising Formula I to Formula XIV and the active and or partially active compounds set forth in and Tables 1 14 and the like.

In accordance with certain other examples kits for treating one or more 1 proliferative disorders 2 non proliferative degenerative disorders 3 viral infections and or 4 disorders associated with viral infections are provided. In one example the kit may comprise one or more diaryloxindole compounds or a combination of one or more diaryloxindole compounds. In another example the kit may comprise a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. In an additional example the kit may also include instructions for treating 1 proliferative disorders 2 non proliferative degenerative disorders 3 viral infections and or 4 disorders associated with viral infections. In some examples the kit may also comprise e.g. a buffering agent a preservative or a protein stabilizing agent. In other examples the kit may also contain a control sample or a series of control samples which can be assayed and compared to the test sample contained. Other suitable components for including in the kit will be selected by the person of ordinary skill in the art given the benefit of this disclosure.

In accordance with certain examples diaryloxindole compounds can be incorporated into pharmaceutical compositions suitable for administration. Such compositions typically comprise the compounds disclosed here and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. As used herein the term pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is intended to include any and all solvents dispersion media coatings antibacterial and antifungal agents isotonic and absorption delaying agents and the like compatible with pharmaceutical administration. The use of such media and agents for pharmaceutically active substances is well known in the art. Except insofar as any conventional media or agent is incompatible with the active compound use thereof in the compositions is contemplated. Supplementary active compounds can also be incorporated into the compositions.

In accordance with certain examples a pharmaceutical composition of the invention is formulated to be compatible with its intended route of administration. Such pharmaceutical compositions may be administered by inhalation transdermally orally rectally transmucosally intestinally parenterally intramuscularly subcutaneously intravenously or other suitable methods that will be readily selected by the person of ordinary skill in the art given the benefit of this disclosure. For example solutions or suspensions used for parenteral intradermal or subcutaneous application can include the following components a sterile diluent such as water for injection saline solution fixed oils polyethylene glycols glycerin propylene glycol or other synthetic solvents antibacterial agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl parabens antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite chelating agents such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid buffers such as acetates citrates or phosphates and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. pH can be adjusted with acids or bases such as hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide. The parenteral preparation can be enclosed in ampules disposable syringes or multiple dose vials made of glass or plastic.

In accordance with other examples pharmaceutical compositions suitable for injectable use include sterile aqueous solutions where water soluble or dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersion. For intravenous administration suitable carriers include physiological saline bacteriostatic water CREMPHOR EL BASF Parsippany N.J. or phosphate buffered saline PBS . In all cases the composition must be sterile and should be fluid to the extent that easy syringability exists. It must be stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage and must be preserved against the contaminating action of microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi. The carrier can be a solvent or dispersion medium containing for example water ethanol polyol for example glycerol propylene glycol and liquid polyethylene glycol and the like and suitable mixtures thereof. The proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the use of a coating such as lecithin by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersion and by the use of surfactants. Prevention of the action of microorganisms can be achieved by various antibacterial and antifungal agents for example parabens chlorobutanol phenol ascorbic acid thimerosal and the like. In many cases it will be preferable to include isotonic agents for example sugars polyalcohols such as manitol sorbitol sodium chloride in the composition. Prolonged absorption of the injectable compositions can be brought about by including in the composition an agent which delays absorption for example aluminum monostearate and gelatin.

In accordance with other examples sterile injectable solutions can be prepared by incorporating the active compound in the required amount in an appropriate solvent with one or a combination of ingredients enumerated above as required followed by filtered sterilization. Generally dispersions are prepared by incorporating the active compound into a sterile vehicle which contains a basic dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated above. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions methods of preparation can be vacuum drying and freeze drying which yields a powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from a previously sterile filtered solution thereof. Oral compositions generally include an inert diluent or an edible carrier. They can be enclosed in gelatin capsules or compressed into tablets. For the purpose of oral therapeutic administration the active compound can be incorporated with excipients and used in the form of tablets troches or capsules. Oral compositions can also be prepared using a fluid carrier for use as a mouthwash wherein the compound in the fluid carrier is applied orally and swished and expectorated or swallowed. Pharmaceutically compatible binding agents and or adjuvant materials can be included as part of the composition. The tablets pills capsules troches and the like can contain any of the following ingredients or compounds of a similar nature a binder such as microcrystalline cellulose gum tragacanth or gelatin an excipient such as starch or lactose a disintegrating agent such as alginic acid Primogel or corn starch a lubricant such as magnesium stearate or Sterotes a glidant such as colloidal silicon dioxide a sweetening agent such as sucrose or saccharin or a flavoring agent such as peppermint methyl salicylate or orange flavoring.

In at least certain examples the active compounds are prepared with carriers that will protect the compound against rapid elimination from the body such as a controlled release formulation including implants and microencapsulated delivery systems. Biodegradable biocompatible polymers can be used such as ethylene vinyl acetate polyanhydrides polyglycolic acid collagen polyorthoesters and polylactic acid. Methods for preparation of such formulations will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The materials can also be obtained commercially from Alza Corporation and Nova Pharmaceuticals Inc. Liposomal suspensions including liposomes targeted to infected cells with monoclonal antibodies to viral antigens can also be used as pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. These may be prepared according to methods known to those skilled in the art for example as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 522 811 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes.

In accordance with certain examples pharmaceutical compositions of the invention comprise one or more diaryloxindole compounds covalently linked to a peptide i.e. a polypeptide comprising two or more amino acids . Peptides may be assembled sequentially from individual amino acids or by linking suitable small peptide fragments. In sequential assembly the peptide chain is extended stepwise starting at the C terminus by one amino acid per step. In fragment coupling fragments of different lengths can be linked together and the fragments can also be obtained by sequential assembly from amino acids or by fragment coupling of still shorter peptides.

In both sequential assembly and fragment coupling it is necessary to link the units e.g. amino acids peptides compounds and the like by forming an amide linkage which can be accomplished via a variety of enzymatic and chemical methods. The methods described herein for formation of peptidic amide linkages are also suitable for the formation of non peptidic amide linkages.

Chemical methods for forming the amide linkage are described in detail in standard references on peptide chemistry including Muller Vol. XV 2 1 364 Thieme Verlag Stuttgart 1974 Stewart and Young 31 34 and 71 82 Pierce Chemical Company Rockford Ill. 1984 Bodanszky et al. 85 128 John Wiley Sons New York 1976 M. Bodansky A. Bodansky Springer Verlag 1994 and other standard works in peptide chemistry incorporated herein by reference in their entirety for all purposes. Methods include the azide method the symmetric and mixed anhydride method the use of in situ generated or preformed active esters the use of urethane protected N carboxy anhydrides of amino acids and the formation of the amide linkage using coupling reagents such as dicyclohexylcarbodiimide DCC diisopropylcarbodiimide DIC 1 ethoxycarbonyl 2 ethoxy 1 2 dihydroquinoline EEDQ pivaloyl chloride 1 ethyl 3 3 dimethylaminopropyl carbodiimide hydrochloride EDCI n propane phosphonic anhydride PPA N N bis 2 oxo 3 oxazolidinyl amido phosphoryl chloride BOP Cl bromo tris pyrrolidinophosphonium hexafluorophosphate PyBrop diphenylphosphoryl azide DPPA Castro s reagent BOP PyBop O benzotriazolyl N N N N tetramethyluronium salts HBTU O azabenzotriazolyl N N N N tetramethyluronuim salts TATU diethylphosphoryl cyanide DEPCN 2 5 diphenyl 2 3 dihydro 3 oxo 4 hydroxythiophene dioxide Steglich s reagent HOTDO 1 1 carbonyldiimidazole CDI and the like. The coupling reagents can be employed alone or in combination with additives such as N N dimethyl 4 aminopyridine DMAP N hydroxy benzotriazole HOBt N hydroxybenzotriazine HOOBt N hydroxysuccinimide HOSu 2 hydroxypyridine and the like.

In accordance with other examples methods of modulating translation initiation for therapeutic purposes are disclosed. In one example a method involves contacting a cell with an agent that inhibits translation initiation. An agent that inhibits translation initiation can be any one of the compounds described herein such as a diaryloxindole compound. In at least certain examples the compound modulates the depletion of intracellular calcium stores. Methods of modulating translation initiation can be performed in vitro e.g. by culturing a cell with the agent or alternatively in vivo e.g. by administering the agent to a subject . Certain examples disclosed herein are directed to methods of treating an individual afflicted with a disease or disorder characterized by aberrant translation initiation. Examples of such disorders are described herein. In one embodiment the method involves administering an agent e.g. an agent identified by a screening assay described herein or combination of agents that inhibits translation initiation. As used herein an individual afflicted with a disease or disorder is intended to include both human and non human mammals. Examples of non human mammals include but are not limited to non human primates horses cows goats sheep dogs cats mice rats hamsters guinea pigs and the like.

The present invention provides for both prophylactic and therapeutic methods of treating a subject for one or more 1 proliferative disorders 2 non proliferative degenerative disorders 3 viral infections and or 4 disorders associated with viral infection. In one aspect the invention provides a method for preventing in a subject a disease or condition associated with one or more 1 proliferative disorders 2 non proliferative degenerative disorders 3 viral infections and or 4 disorders associated with viral infection by administering to the subject one or more diaryloxindole compounds described herein to modulate one or more 1 proliferative disorders 2 non proliferative degenerative disorders 3 viral infections and or 4 disorders associated with viral infection. Administration of a prophylactic agent can occur prior to the manifestation of symptoms such that a disease or disorder is prevented or alternatively delayed in its progression.

Another aspect of the invention pertains to therapeutic methods of treating one or more 1 proliferative disorders 2 non proliferative degenerative disorders 3 viral infections and or 4 disorders associated with viral infection for therapeutic purposes. Accordingly in an exemplary embodiment a therapeutic method of the invention involves contacting a subject with a diaryloxindole compound that therapeutically treats one or more 1 proliferative disorders 2 non proliferative degenerative disorders 3 viral infections and or 4 disorders associated with viral infection.

One embodiment of the present invention involves a method of treating a translation initiation associated disease or disorder which includes the step of administering a therapeutically and or prophylactically effective amount of an agent which inhibits translation initiation to a subject. In another embodiment a subject is administered a therapeutically and or prophylactically effective amount that is effective to deplete intracellular calcium stores. As defined herein a therapeutically and or prophylactically effective amount of agent i.e. an effective dosage ranges from about 0.001 to 30 mg kg body weight from about 0.01 to 25 mg kg body weight from about 0.1 to 20 mg kg body weight from about 1 to 10 mg kg from about 2 to 9 mg kg from about 3 to 8 mg kg from about 4 to 7 mg kg or from about 5 to 6 mg kg body weight. The skilled artisan will appreciate that certain factors may influence the dosage required to effectively treat a subject including but not limited to the severity of the disease or disorder previous treatments the general health and or age of the subject and other diseases present. Treatment of a subject with a therapeutically and or prophylactically effective amount of an inhibitor can include a single treatment or can include a series of treatments. It will also be appreciated that the effective dosage of in used for treatment may increase or decrease over the course of a particular treatment.

The general synthetic approaches to produce the diaryloxindole compounds of the present invention are set forth in Tables 1 14. Tables 1 14 depict biological data of compounds synthesized describing the general synthetic strategy for the scaffold set forth at the top of each table. The appropriate isatins were either commercially available or synthesized starting from appropriate anilines.

A bioassay guided iterative approach was taken for the synthesis of the diaryloxindole compounds. The iterative approach involved an initial selection of compounds which were subjected to one or more bioassays such as those described in Example III. Additional compounds were then synthesized based on bioassay and or structural e.g. electronic and steric nature of various diaryloxindole compound substituents data. The compounds synthesized addressed the electronics and the sterics by substituting the three phenyl rings and the nitrogen with various functional groups. The symmetric diphenyl compounds were obtained using triflic acid TfOH following previously reported procedures Klumpp et al. 1998 63 4481 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes while the unsymmetrical compounds were synthesized using a two step procedure. The first step involved a Grignard addition to isatin using appropriately substituted starting materials and the key second step involved the generation of a quaternary center at the three position of the oxindole ring. This was accomplished by an acid catalyzed Friedel Crafts type condensation of step B with the appropriate aromatic ring to generate diaryloxindoles Hewawasam et al. 2002 12 1023 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes . For activated ring systems that contained an electron donating group p toluene sulfonic acid in dichloroethane allowed the condensation to occur smoothly while the unactivated ring systems required the use of triflic acid which is much stronger than p toluene sulfonic acid.

As a non limiting example compounds 1272 and 1273 set forth in Table 1 were synthesized starting from 3 bromoaniline which upon condensation with hydroxylamine and chloral hydrate followed by concentrated sulfuric acid yielded an inseparable regioisomeric mixture of 4 and 6 bromo isatins. The addition of the two phenyl groups to the three position of the oxindole allowed easy chromatographic separation of the 4 and 6 bromo 3 3 diphenyloxindoles 1272 and 1273. Table 1 sets forth biological data for diaryloxindole compounds including but not limited to 1272 and 1273. For Tables 1 14 Ca refers to Ca release from intracellular stores where a denotes release and a denotes inconclusive eIF2 P refers to phosphorylation of eIF2 measured by Western blot SRB refers to the inhibitory concentration to reduce cell growth by 50 IC for growth inhibition of A549 lung cancer cells and n.d. is not determined.

Compounds described herein were purified either by re crystallization or by column chromatography and were characterized by H nuclear magnetic resonance NMR and liquid chromatography atmospheric pressure chemical ionization mass spectrometry LC APCI MS .

As a non limiting example isatins and substituted isatins intermediates set forth in Tables 1 3 5 and 7 were synthesized by heating a solution of appropriately protected aniline 0.1 moles chloral hydrate 0.11 moles hydroxylamine hydrochloride 0.2 moles in concentrated HSO 12.5 g and water 700 mL to 95 C. for ten minutes. The solution was then kept at 4 C. overnight. The cream colored isonitroso intermediate was filtered off washed with water and dried. This compound was ground to a fine powder in a mortar and pestle and added with stirring in portions over 30 minutes to concentrated HSO 40 g maintained at 60 65 C. The mixture was then heated at 95 C. for one hour and poured onto ice 300 g . The resulting solid was filtered to give the appropriate substituted isatin.

As another non limiting example 3 Aryl 3 hydroxy substituted oxindoles intermediates set forth in tables 2 7 and 9 14 were synthesized by adding dropwise a 1M solution of alkyl or aryl magnesium halide 0.33 mole to an appropriately substituted isatin 0.1 mole in 60 mL THF at 0 C. The resulting mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and let spin at room temperature for twelve hours. The reaction mixture was quenched with a saturated solution of NHCl 100 mL and diluted with 100 mL of dichloromethane. The layers were separated the organic layer was washed with water followed by brine dried over NaSOand filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to yield the product.

As another non limiting example symmetric substituted di aryloxindoles final compounds set forth in Tables 1 and 8 were synthesized by adding two mL of substituted benzene to a mixture of appropriately substituted isatins 1 mmol combined with three mL of freshly distilled triflic acid. The resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for eight hours. The product mixture was poured over 25 g of ice and extracted into either chloroform or toluene. The organic solution was washed with water and then brine and dried over NaSO. Concentration in vacuo yielded the 3 3 diphenyl substituted oxindoles.

As another non limiting example unsymmetrically substituted di aryloxindoles final compounds set forth in Tables 2 7 and 9 13 were synthesized by adding freshly distilled triflic acid 1 mmol in 1 mL dichloromethane to a mixture of appropriately substituted 3 aryl 3 hydroxy oxindole 0.1 mmol and appropriately substituted benzene dissolved in 1 mL dichloromethane. The reaction was maintained at room temperature and monitored by thin layer chromatography TLC and liquid chromatography mass spectrometry LCMS . Upon completion the mixture was poured over ice 25 g and extracted with dichloromethane. The organic layer was dried and concentrated in vacuo to yield the desired product.

As another non limiting example unsymmetrically substituted di aryloxindoles final compounds set forth in Tables 2 7 and 9 13 were also synthesized by adding p toluenesulfonic acid 0.3 mmol in 5 mL dichloromethane to a mixture of appropriately substituted 3 Aryl 3 hydroxy oxindole 0.1 mmol and appropriately substituted benzene dissolved in 10 mL dichloroethane. The reaction was heated to 95 C. and monitored by TLC and LCMS upon completion the reaction mixture was cooled and filtered to remove the p toluenesulfonic acid. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo and purified to yield the desired product.

As another non limiting example 3 5 tert butyl 2 hydroxy phenyl 3 phenyl 1 3 dihydro indol 2 one compound 1181 was synthesized by adding dropwise a 1M solution of phenylmagnesiumbromide 0.33 mole to isatin 15 g 0.1 mole in 60 mL THF at 0 C. The resulting mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature and let stir at room temperature for 12 hours. The reaction mixture was quenched with a saturated solution of NHCl 100 mL and diluted with 100 mL of dichloromethane. The layers were separated the organic layer was washed with water followed by brine dried over NaSO and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to yield 20.1 g 90 of 3 hydroxy 3 phenyl 1 3 dihydro indol 2 one. A mixture of the above solid 2.5 g 10 mmole p t Bu phenol 1.5 g 10 mmol p toluenesulfonic acid 3 g in 40 mL dichloroethane was heated to 95 C. for six hours. The mixture was cooled and filtered. The filtrate was concentrated in vacuo to yield 2.4 g 66 of the desired product compound 1181 .

As another non limiting example 4 tert butyl N 5 hydroxy 4 methyl 2 2 oxo 3 phenyl 2 3 dihydro 1H indol 3 yl phenyl benzenesulfonamide compound 1430 was synthesized by adding dropwise 4 tert butyl benzenesulfonyl chloride 8 g 34 mmol in 5 mL dichloromethane to a stirring solution of 5 Amino 2 methyl phenol 4 g 32 mmol in 20 mL pyridine and letting the mixture spin overnight at room temperature. The resulting mixture was concentrated in vacuo and the product was purified by column chromatography to yield 8 g 78 of 4 tert butyl N 3 hydroxy 4 methyl phenyl benzenesulfonamide. A mixture of 3 hydroxy 3 phenyl 1 3 dihydro indol 2 one 3.9 g 17 mmol 4 tert butyl N 3 hydroxy 4 methyl phenyl benzenesulfonamide 7 g 22 mmol and p toluenesulfonic acid 6.5 g 32 mmol in dichloroethane was refluxed for 12 hours. The resulting mixture was cooled to room temperature to yield a colorless solid. The solid was filtered and purified using column chromatography to yield 8 g 88 of the desired product compound 1430 .

Without intending to be bound by theory the mechanism of action of translation initiation inhibitors is set forth in and includes the depletion complete or partial depletion of intracellular calcium Ca stores and phosphorylation of eIF2 . Compounds synthesized using the approaches described herein were screened for their ability to partially deplete intracellular Ca stores using FURA 2AM loaded cells Benzaquen et al. 1995 1 534 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes . A limited subset of compounds were further screened for their ability to deplete endoplasmic reticulum ER Ca. The Ca content of the ER was monitored using ER targeted Ca sensitive recombinant proteins. These recombinant proteins emitted light by fluorescent resonance energy transfer FRET as a function of the Ca content of the medium. Such assays are previously described Miyawaki A. Mizuno H. Llopis J. Tsien R. Y. Jalink K. Oxford University Press Oxford London 2001 pp 3 16 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes . Compounds that depleted Ca were further evaluated for their ability to phosphorylate eIF2 . eIF2 phosphorylation was measured by Western blot analysis using the phospho specific anti eIF 2 antibody as previously described Aktas et al. 1998 95 8280 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes . Compounds that both depleted ER Ca and phosphorylated eIF2 were tested in a lung cancer cell line A549 for cell growth inhibition as previously described Palakurthi et al. 2000 60 2919 incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all purposes .

Compound 1181 set forth in Table 2 was determined to be a Ca depleting translation initiation inhibitor as it depleted ER Ca phosphorylated eIF2 inhibited growth of a cancer cell line A549 and decreased squamous cell carcinoma tumor mass in mice A C and . Using compound 1181 for comparison additional compounds were screened for their ability to inhibit translation initiation in a Ca depletion dependent manner Tables 1 to 14 .

One set of compounds Table 1 had a variation of the functional groups at the positions Rand Ron the oxindole phenyl ring. Substitutions including but not limited to 5 Br 4 Cl 5 OCFand 6 Et groups resulted in compounds that depleted intracellular Ca. Compound 1392 which has 4 Cl and 7 COH substitutions showed improved eIF2 phosphorylation which correlated with improved growth inhibition of cancer cells. Compound 1398 a negative control exhibited reduced eIF2 phosphorylation relative to compound 1392 with a concomitant reduced potency of tumor cell growth inhibition.

The positional effect of a bromo group was next investigated by placing a bromo group at 4 5 6 and 7 positions on the phenyl ring of the oxindole to generate compounds 1272 1205 1273 and 1207 respectively. The 7 substitution abrogated Ca depletion activity and none of the compounds exhibited an increase in eIF2 phosphorylation relative to compound 1392.

Compound 1430 Table 7 released calcium and showed a 5 fold increase in eIF2 phosphorylation over DMSO at 5 M. Ternary complex assay was 8 fold over DMSO at 20 M and cell growth was inhibited at 

Other embodiments will be evident to those of skill in the art. It should be understood that the foregoing description is provided for clarity only and is merely exemplary. The spirit and scope of the present invention are not limited to the above examples but are encompassed by the following claims. All publications and patent applications cited above are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent application were specifically indicated to be so incorporated by reference.

