---

title: Method for applying flowable hydrogels to a cornea
abstract: Materials and methods of treating an eye with a hydrogel formed on the eye. Embodiments are provided that include post-keratectomy bandages. A method of treating a patient by application of a hydrogel bandage to a cornea by providing a first hydrogel precursor in a dry form immobilized in a first deposit at a first location in a well, providing a second hydrogel precursor in a dry form immobilized in a second deposit at a second location in the well, mixing the deposits together to form a mixture, and transferring at least some of the mixture to the cornea, with the mixture forming a covalently crosslinked hydrogel on the cornea.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08961501&OS=08961501&RS=08961501
owner: Incept, LLC
number: 08961501
owner_city: Bedford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100917
---
The technical field relates to formation of hydrogels on an ocular surface for treatment of an eye and includes particular methods of applying the hydrogels as well as particular compositions of the same.

A wound on the surface of the eye caused by trauma or surgery can often be painful. Brushing of the eyelid against the eye can aggravate pain caused by the damage. The arts of applying a bandage between the eye and the eyelid however have generally not advanced to the point where such bandages can be routinely used.

Disclosed herein are hydrogel bandages for placement on an eye. The hydrogels may be formed directly on the eye from precursor materials that react with each other to form the hydrogel on the eye. The bandage adheres directly to the eye to minimize discomfort and complications that could result from movement of the bandage around the eye. The hydrogel can be made with an unexpected property displacement from the eye by cell in migration. The cells are unable to grow over or under the hydrogel. The hydrogel degrades and is displaced from its outside edges inwardly by epithelial cells. The interplay between the changing mechanical strength of the hydrogel and the activity of the epithelial cells are approximately matched. As a result the wound edges are healed as the hydrogel withdraws from the wound to thereby provide continuous coverage of the wound. These and other embodiments are set forth herein.

As illustrated in panel a depicts a corneal surface with a layer of epithelial cells interrupted by a de epithelialized zone . Although this zone is shallow it is possible to apply precursor solutions only within the zone. As at panel b a volume is applied to zone . The volume is spread out with a brush delivery surface mixing rod or other means and cross links to form a hydrogel that has a height close to the epithelial cell layer thickness. Height may decrease over time as eyelids brush the gel as at panel c with the hydrogel nonetheless remaining adherent. Migrating cells subsequently migrate into the de epithelialized zone panels d and e displacing the hydrogel which becomes decreased in projected surface area . Disappearance of the hydrogel progresses from outer edges of the zone to the center of the zone with migrating epithelial cells being continuously adjacent the hydrogel without being substantially under the hydrogel. The hydrogel may not be displaced symmetrically but is displaced progressively from its outer edges inwardly. Surface erosion of the gel may also occur. The de epithelialized zone eventually becomes re epithelialized panel f. Hydrogels and particular delivery systems and techniques for using this unexpected property are disclosed herein.

Hydrogel bandages may be placed on an eye following surgery or trauma to the cornea. The hydrogel adheres directly to the eye and reduces pain. The hydrogel can be made to degrade at a rate proportional to epithelial cell migration into the wound area . Without being bound to a particular theory of operation it is believed that the hydrogel allows cells to push its edges up and is weak and brittle enough to then be flaked off by the eyelid. At the same time the hydrogel otherwise has the mechanical strength needed to resist movement and displacement by the eyelid. These embodiments were observed to not otherwise allow cells to invade the area under the hydrogel or to allow cells to migrate over the hydrogel surface. Some hydrogels with unsuitable properties were observed to create a jumble of epithelial cells at the hydrogel edge so that there was no cell driven dehiscence of the hydrogel from the eye. Another theory of operation that is likewise not to be binding is that nerve endings on the surface of the eye are most sensitive in the few days after the injury so that temporary coverage of the injured area that reduces or eliminates pain if the area is protected from mechanical forces and especially eyelid movement.

One application is for treatment of an eye after surface ablation from vision correction surgical techniques such as photorefractive keratectomy PRK and a modified laser assisted in situ keratomileusis LASIK known as epi LASIK. These procedures involve creation of a de epithelialized zone on the cornea. The zone is actually a depression on the eye surface albeit a very shallow one measured in tens of microns typically ranging from about 10 to about 200 microns. Since it has been discovered that hydrogels can be made with a range of structural properties that provide for cell driven dehiscence unbinding from the eye surface it can be desirable to place the hydrogel only in the de epithelialized zone. Such placement however requires new approaches to bandage placement.

One such approach is to paint or dab a flowable solution onto the surface and to let it flow or spread it around until it covers the zone. The volume of the solution may be controlled so that it does not spill substantially out of the zone and is thus retained substantially inside the zone so that it does not substantially overlap outside of the zone. Experimentation has shown that some spill over can be tolerated with suitable materials since the excess material quickly flakes off. The term substantially in this context means that there is an overlap of less than about 2 mm outside of the zone i.e. that the material is retained within 2 mm of the margin of the zone. The material may be said to be substantially only in the zone. Similarly the amount of overlap may be specified with the material being no more than about 1 about 2 or about 3 mm from the margin.

Also control of the thickness of the resultant hydrogel can assist in the procedure if the hydrogel s height relative to the area outside the zone is kept to a minimum e.g. less than about 200 m artisans will immediately appreciate that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated range are contemplated e.g. from about 10 to about 100 m or less than 50 or within 1 to 50 m of the top of the zone including heights above or below the top of the zone . Control of the height can reduce the mechanical force of the eyelid moving across the eye so that displacement and movement are reduced. The solution must also have a desirable pH since pH that is too basic is believed to have adverse effects with a pH of about 6 to about 8 being preferred. The solution must also gel within a range of time that allows for the solution to be applied and spread as needed without undue opportunity to flow away or be accidentally moved in application. These processes are in contrast to conventional approaches of providing a material that generally covers the wound and areas around the wound.

Achieving the embodiments with cell driven dehiscence of the hydrogel was unexpected. These embodiments reflect a balance of hydrogel strength brittleness ductility adhesivity degradation rates distance between crosslinks solids content resistance to cellular attachment pH at the time of application flowability in placement time to gelation and shrinkage. These factors are often in tension with each other. For instance the material needs strength and ductility to stay in place over time but also must be brittle and weak enough to respond to cellular activity. The distance between crosslinks should be small enough to resist cellular migration but not such that the strength is unduly increased or that passage of low molecular weight molecules such as drugs is impeded. The degradation rate must be fast enough for the hydrogel to spontaneously disappear but not too fast so that the hydrogel is gone before cells can re cover the de epithelialized zone.

Described herein is a material for an ocular bandage for corneal surface ablation that is a bioabsorbable highly biocompatible corneal bandage that is applied as a thin liquid coating. This liquid may be painted onto the injured cornea and quickly transform into a tightly adherent hydrogel bandage that is optically transparent providing a custom fit bandage for each corneal surface. Such bandages reduce or eliminate the pain and potentially improve vision during the healing period. The period of greatest pain has been reported to be up to 2 days and re establishment of the epithelium generally occurs within one week.

Creation of a degradable bandage presents some difficulty with the desire for the bandage to cover the wound but simultaneously not to interfere with healing. Herein are described hydrogels with a persistence of 2 20 days. A preferred range is about 2 6 days a minimum of about 2 days persistence to protect the wound during the most painful period while having the material substantially gone from the site at about 4 days to about 6 days will minimize any delay of healing. Artisans will immediately appreciate that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated.

Photorefractive keratectomy PRK is a laser vision correction procedure for the treatment of myopia nearsightedness astigmatism and hyperopia farsightedness with the intent to either eliminate or reduce the need for corrective eyewear. Patients treated with PRK are less likely to develop complications after surgery than another laser eye surgery procedure called laser assisted in situ keratomileusis LASIK . Unlike LASIK the PRK procedure does not create a corneal flap which can weaken the cornea and is thus free from flap related medical complications. LASIK flap complications can include corneal ectasia in growth of epithelial cells folds within the flap and a long term risk of flap dislocation. In addition flap incisions can result in severed nerves that control tear production leading to a chronic condition called dry eye . In PRK the surface of the cornea is directly ablated without making a corneal flap thereby making it a more robust surgical procedure for correcting vision. The PRK procedure might require a slightly longer healing time but has less risk of complication than LASIK. The PRK procedure however causes pain believed to be resulting from the exposed nerve endings that are laid bare and a period days of poor vision until the epithelial tissue has healed. These two drawbacks have limited the popularity of this procedure.

Epi LASIK is a modification of LASIK in which the flap created is limited to the epithelium of the cornea by use of a specialized microkeratome. The thinner flap is considered advantageous because the Bowman s membrane is not disturbed except in the area where the laser ablation is administered. In many cases the epithelial layer is discarded making Epi LASIK similar to PRK with the major difference being the method of epithelium removal.

Example 1 describes a hydrogel that while useful in other ocular healing contexts failed to be effective for post PRK bandaging. This hydrogel described in detail in the Example had a formulation of 8 arm 15K SG PEG and trilysine. This gel was tested over a range of solids content and gelation times. The swelling of the hydrogel varied considerably and passed through a minimum while solids content and gelation times were decreased and increased respectively. In vivo the gel persisted over 15 days and at that point it seemed to be degraded such that it was partially de adhered and reshaped by movement of the eyelid.

Example 2 describes another hydrogel that while useful in other ocular healing contexts also failed to be effective for post PRK bandaging. The formulation of Example 1 was adjusted by changing the pH of the reaction solution upon dilution by adding the sodium phosphate dibasic and sodium tetraborate decahydrate to the diluent instead of dried deposits. Unexpectedly the persistence time of the gel in vivo was not greatly changed even though lower solid content formulations were tested.

Examples 3 and 4 however show an embodiment that was effective. The electrophilic functional group was changed to a faster degrading succinimidyl succinate 8 arm 15K SS PEG as shown in Table 3. Changes to the solids content did not create the same degree of changes in persistence time observed in Examples 1 and 2. and Table 4 show the reduction in wound area over time for treated and control eyes with the treated eyes having complete epithelial coverage on the same day as the untreated eyes. An unexpected result was observed the epithelial cells were continuous with the hydrogel edges. is a photomicrograph of histology slides taken at day 1 after hydrogel application. Panel a shows a de epithelialized surface. Panel b shows the junction between the epithelialized surface and the de epithelialized surface under the hydrogel. Panel c shows a portion of the hydrogel more towards its center with no dehiscence or underlying epithelial cells. shows a similar effect at day 3 although the hydrogel is not visible since it normally separates from the tissue during histological processing. The transition from epithelialization to non coverage is visible for both treated and control eyes. Example 5 see is another example of a successful treatment with the wound area being made by laser ablation.

Formation of hydrogels on an eye preferably provides for gelation to occur within about 0.1 to about 3 minutes artisans will immediately appreciate that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated e.g. at least 10 seconds or between 30 to 180 seconds. Gelation time is measured as described in the Examples.

Now that this effect has been discovered and embodiments for achieving it described artisans will be able to make alternative formulations. Accordingly this embodiment of the invention is not to be limited to the particular examples. Moreover further guidance is provided herein with respect to choices of materials and processes.

Furthermore hydrogels as described herein may be used to treat conditions besides post PRK. Other conditions include tissue damage caused by surgical or traumatic eye tissue removal. For instance lasers and blades are used to re shape eyes e.g. laser assisted in situ keratomileusis LASIK and Epi LASIK.

Hydrogels are materials that do not dissolve in water and retain a significant fraction more than 20 of water within their structure. In fact water contents in excess of 90 are often known. Hydrogels are often formed by crosslinking water soluble molecules to form networks of essentially infinite molecular weight. Hydrogels with high water contents are typically soft pliable materials. A hydrogel that has been dried is referred to herein as a dehydrated hydrogel if it will return to a hydrogel state upon exposure to water also referred to as a xerogel this hydrogel that would expand in volume if it were exposed to an excess of water and not constrained. The term desiccated refers to a hydrogel essentially having no fluids bearing in mind that some trace amounts of water may nonetheless be present.

Hydrogels may be made from precursors. The precursors are not hydrogels but are covalently crosslinked with each other to form a hydrogel and are thereby part of the hydrogel. Crosslinks can be formed by covalent or ionic bonds by hydrophobic association of precursor molecule segments or by crystallization of precursor molecule segments. The precursors can be triggered to react to form a crosslinked hydrogel. The precursors can be polymerizable and include crosslinkers that are often but not always polymerizable precursors. Polymerizable precursors are thus precursors that have functional groups that react with each other to form polymers made of repeating units. Precursors may be polymers.

Some precursors thus react by chain growth polymerization also referred to as addition polymerization and involve the linking together of monomers incorporating double or triple chemical bonds. These unsaturated monomers have extra internal bonds which are able to break and link up with other monomers to form the repeating chain. Monomers are polymerizable molecules with at least one group that reacts with other groups to form a polymer. A macromonomer or macromer is a polymer or oligomer that has at least one reactive group often at the end which enables it to act as a monomer each macromonomer molecule is attached to the polymer by reaction the reactive group. Thus macromonomers with two or more monomers or other functional groups tend to form covalent crosslinks. Addition polymerization is involved in the manufacture of e.g. polypropylene or polyvinyl chloride. One type of addition polymerization is living polymerization.

Some precursors thus react by condensation polymerization that occurs when monomers bond together through condensation reactions. Typically these reactions can be achieved through reacting molecules incorporating alcohol amine or carboxylic acid or other carboxyl derivative functional groups. When an amine reacts with a carboxylic acid an amide or peptide bond is formed with the release of water. Some condensation reactions follow a nucleophilic acyl substitution e.g. as in U.S. Pat. No. 6 958 212 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety to the extent it does not contradict what is explicitly disclosed herein.

Some precursors react by a chain growth mechanism. Chain growth polymers are defined as polymers formed by the reaction of monomers or macromonomers with a reactive center. A reactive center is a particular location within a chemical compound that is the initiator of a reaction in which the chemical is involved. In chain growth polymer chemistry this is also the point of propagation for a growing chain. The reactive center is commonly radical anionic or cationic in nature but can also take other forms. Chain growth systems include free radical polymerization which involves a process of initiation propagation and termination. Initiation is the creation of free radicals necessary for propagation as created from radical initiators e.g. organic peroxide molecules. Termination occurs when a radical reacts in a way that prevents further propagation. The most common method of termination is by coupling where two radical species react with each other forming a single molecule.

Some precursors react by a step growth mechanism and are polymers formed by the stepwise reaction between functional groups of monomers. Most step growth polymers are also classified as condensation polymers but not all step growth polymers release condensates.

Monomers may be polymers or small molecules. A polymer is a high molecular weight molecule formed by combining many smaller molecules monomers in a regular pattern. Oligomers are polymers having less than about 20 monomeric repeat units. A small molecule generally refers to a molecule that is less than about 2000 Daltons.

The precursors must thus be small molecules such as acrylic acid or vinyl caprolactam larger molecules containing polymerizable groups such as acrylate capped polyethylene glycol PEG diacrylate or other polymers containing ethylenically unsaturated groups such as those of U.S. Pat. No. 4 938 763 to Dunn et al U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 100 992 and 4 826 945 to Cohn et al or U.S. Pat. Nos. 4 741 872 and 5 160 745 to DeLuca et al. each of which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety to the extent it does not contradict what is explicitly disclosed herein.

To form covalently crosslinked hydrogels the precursors must be crosslinked together. In general polymeric precursors will form polymers that will be joined to other polymeric precursors at two or more points with each point being a linkage to the same or different polymers. Precursors with at least two reactive groups can serve as crosslinkers since each reactive group can participate in the formation of a different growing polymer chain. In the case of functional groups without a reactive center among others crosslinking requires three or more such functional groups on at least one of the precursor types. For instance many electrophilic nucleophilic reactions consume the electrophilic and nucleophilic functional groups so that a third functional group is needed for the precursor to form a crosslink. Such precursors thus may have three or more functional groups and may be crosslinked by precursors with two or more functional groups. A crosslinked molecule may be crosslinked via an ionic or covalent bond a physical force or other attraction. A covalent crosslink however will typically offer stability and predictability in reactant product architecture.

In some embodiments each precursor is multifunctional meaning that it comprises two or more electrophilic or nucleophilic functional groups such that a nucleophilic functional group on one precursor may react with an electrophilic functional group on another precursor to form a covalent bond. At least one of the precursors comprises more than two functional groups so that as a result of electrophilic nucleophilic reactions the precursors combine to form crosslinked polymeric products.

The precursors may have biologically inert and hydrophilic portions e.g. a core. In the case of a branched polymer a core refers to a contiguous portion of a molecule joined to arms that extend from the core with the arms having a functional group which is often at the terminus of the branch. The hydrophilic precursor or precursor portion preferably has a solubility of at least 1 g 100 mL in an aqueous solution. A hydrophilic portion may be for instance a polyether for example polyalkylene oxides such as polyethylene glycol PEG polyethylene oxide PEO polyethylene oxide co polypropylene oxide PPO co polyethylene oxide block or random copolymers and polyvinyl alcohol PVA poly vinyl pyrrolidinone PVP poly amino acids dextran or a protein. The precursors may have a polyalkylene glycol portion and may be polyethylene glycol based with at least about 80 or 90 by weight of the polymer comprising polyethylene oxide repeats. The polyethers and more particularly poly oxyalkylenes or poly ethylene glycol or polyethylene glycol are generally hydrophilic.

A precursor may also be a macromolecule or macromer which is a molecule having a molecular weight in the range of a thousand to many millions. In some embodiments however at least one of the precursors is a small molecule of about 1000 Da or less. The macromolecule when reacted in combination with a small molecule of about 1000 Da or less is preferably at least five to fifty times greater in molecular weight than the small molecule and is preferably less than about 60 000 Da artisans will immediately appreciate that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated. A more preferred range is a macromolecule that is about seven to about thirty times greater in molecular weight than the crosslinker and a most preferred range is about ten to twenty times difference in weight. Further a macromolecular molecular weight of 5 000 to 50 000 is useful as is a molecular weight of 7 000 to 40 000 or a molecular weight of 10 000 to 20 000.

Certain macromeric precursors are the crosslinkable biodegradable water soluble macromers described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 410 016 to Hubbell et al which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety to the extent it does not contradict what is explicitly disclosed. These macromers are characterized by having at least two polymerizable groups separated by at least one degradable region.

Synthetic precursors may be used. Synthetic refers to a molecule not found in nature or not normally found in a human. Some synthetic precursors are free of amino acids or free of amino acid sequences that occur in nature. Some synthetic precursors are polypeptides that are not found in nature or are not normally found in a human body e.g. di tri or tetra lysine. Some synthetic molecules have amino acid residues but only have one two or three that are contiguous with the amino acids or clusters thereof being separated by non natural polymers or groups. Polysaccharides or their derivatives are thus not synthetic.

Precursors may be made with a hydrophobic portion provided that the resultant hydrogel retains the requisite amount of water e.g. at least about 20 . In some cases the precursor is nonetheless soluble in water because it also has a hydrophilic portion. In other cases the precursor makes dispersion in the water a suspension but is nonetheless reactable to from a crosslinked material. Some hydrophobic portions may include a plurality of alkyls polypropylenes alkyl chains or other groups. Some precursors with hydrophobic portions are sold under the trade names PLURONIC F68 JEFFAMINE or TECTRONIC. A hydrophobic portion is one that is sufficiently hydrophobic to cause the macromer or copolymer to aggregate to form micelles in an aqueous continuous phase or one that when tested by itself is sufficiently hydrophobic to precipitate from or otherwise change phase while within an aqueous solution of water at pH from about 7 to about 7.5 at temperatures from about 30 to about 50 degrees Centigrade.

Precursors may have e.g. 2 100 arms with each arm having a terminus bearing in mind that some precursors may be dendrimers or other highly branched materials. An arm on a hydrogel precursor refers to a linear chain of chemical groups that connect a crosslinkable functional group to a polymer core. Some embodiments are precursors with between 3 and 300 arms artisans will immediately appreciate that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated e.g. 4 to 16 8 to 100 or at least 6 arms.

Thus hydrogels can be made e.g. from a multi armed precursor with a first set of functional groups and a low molecular weight precursor having a second set of functional groups. For example a six armed or eight armed precursor may have hydrophilic arms e.g. polyethylene glycol terminated with primary amines with the molecular weight of the arms being about 1 000 to about 40 000 artisans will immediately appreciate that all ranges and values within the explicitly stated bounds are contemplated. Such precursors may be mixed with relatively smaller precursors for example molecules with a molecular weight of between about 100 and about 5000 or no more than about 800 1000 2000 or 5000 having at least about three functional groups or between about 3 to about 16 functional groups ordinary artisans will appreciate that all ranges and values between these explicitly articulated values are contemplated. Such small molecules may be polymers or non polymers and natural or synthetic.

Precursors that are not dendrimers may be used. Dendritic molecules are highly branched radially symmetrical polymers in which the atoms are arranged in many arms and subarms radiating out from a central core. Dendrimers are characterized by their degree of structural perfection as based on the evaluation of both symmetry and polydispersity and require particular chemical processes to synthesize. Accordingly an artisan can readily distinguish dendrimer precursors from non dendrimer precursors. Dendrimers have a shape that is typically dependent on the solubility of its component polymers in a given environment and can change substantially according to the solvent or solutes around it e.g. changes in temperature pH or ion content.

Precursors may be dendrimers e.g. as in Patent Application Pub. Nos. US20040086479 US20040131582 WO07005249 WO07001926 WO06031358 or the U.S. counterparts thereof dendrimers may also be useful as multifunctional precursors e.g. as in U.S. Pat. Pub. Nos. US20040131582 US20040086479 and PCT Applications No. WO06031388 and WO06031388 each of which US and PCT applications are hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety to the extent they do not contradict what is explicitly disclosed herein. Dendrimers are highly ordered possess high surface area to volume ratios and exhibit numerous end groups for potential functionalization. Embodiments include multifunctional precursors that are not dendrimers.

Some embodiments include a precursor that consists essentially of an oligopeptide sequence of no more than five residues e.g. amino acids comprising at least one amine thiol carboxyl or hydroxyl side chain. A residue is an amino acid either as occurring in nature or derivatized thereof. The backbone of such an oligopeptide may be natural or synthetic. In some embodiments peptides of two or more amino acids are combined with a synthetic backbone to make a precursor certain embodiments of such precursors have a molecular weight in the range of about 100 to about 10 000 or about 300 to about 500 Artisans will immediately appreciate that all ranges and values between these explicitly articulated bounds are contemplated.

Precursors may be prepared to be free of amino acid sequences cleavable by enzymes present at the site of introduction including free of sequences susceptible to attach by metalloproteinases and or collagenases. Further precursors may be made to be free of all amino acids or free of amino acid sequences of more than about 50 30 20 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 or 1 amino acids. Precursors may be non proteins meaning that they are not a naturally occurring protein and can not be made by cleaving a naturally occurring protein and can not be made by adding synthetic materials to a protein. Precursors may be non collagen non fibrin non fibrinogen and non albumin meaning that they are not one of these proteins and are not chemical derivatives of one of these proteins. The use of non protein precursors and limited use of amino acid sequences can be helpful for avoiding immune reactions avoiding unwanted cell recognition and avoiding the hazards associated with using proteins derived from natural sources. Precursors can also be non saccharides free of saccharides or essentially non saccharides free of more than about 5 saccharides by w w of the precursor molecular weight. Thus a precursor may for example exclude hyaluronic acid heparin or gellan. Precursors can also be both non proteins and non saccharides.

Peptides may be used as precursors. In general peptides with less than about 10 residues are preferred although larger sequences e.g. proteins may be used. Artisans will immediately appreciate that every range and value within these explicit bounds is included e.g. 1 10 2 9 3 10 1 2 3 4 5 6 or 7. Some amino acids have nucleophilic groups e.g. primary amines or thiols or groups that can be derivatized as needed to incorporate nucleophilic groups or electrophilic groups e.g. carboxyls or hydroxyls . Polyamino acid polymers generated synthetically are normally considered to be synthetic if they are not found in nature and are engineered not to be identical to naturally occurring biomolecules.

Some hydrogels are made with a polyethylene glycol containing precursor. Polyethylene glycol PEG also referred to as polyethylene oxide when occurring in a high molecular weight refers to a polymer with a repeat group CHCHO with n being at least 3. A polymeric precursor having a polyethylene glycol thus has at least three of these repeat groups connected to each other in a linear series. The polyethylene glycol content of a polymer or arm is calculated by adding up all of the polyethylene glycol groups on the polymer or arm even if they are interrupted by other groups. Thus an arm having at least 1000 MW polyethylene glycol has enough CHCHO groups to total at least 1000 MW. As is customary terminology in these arts a polyethylene glycol polymer does not necessarily refer to a molecule that terminates in a hydroxyl group.

The precursors have functional groups that react with each other to form the material either outside a patient or in situ. The functional groups generally have polymerizable groups for polymerization or react with each other in electrophile nucleophile reactions or are configured to participate in other polymerization reactions. Various aspects of polymerization reactions are discussed in the precursors section herein.

Thus in some embodiments precursors have a polymerizable group that is activated by photoinitiation or redox systems as used in the polymerization arts e.g. or electrophilic functional groups that are carbodiimidazole sulfonyl chloride chlorocarbonates n hydroxysuccinimidyl ester succinimidyl ester or sulfasuccinimidyl esters or as in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 410 016 or 6 149 931 each of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety to the extent they do not contradict what is explicitly disclosed herein. The nucleophilic functional groups may be for example amine hydroxyl carboxyl and thiol. Another class of electrophiles are acyls e.g. as in U.S. Pat. No. 6 958 212 which describes among other things Michael addition schemes for reacting polymers.

Certain functional groups such as alcohols or carboxylic acids do not normally react with other functional groups such as amines under physiological conditions e.g. pH 7.2 11.0 37 C. . However such functional groups can be made more reactive by using an activating group such as N hydroxysuccinimide. Certain activating groups include carbonyldiimidazole sulfonyl chloride aryl halides sulfosuccinimidyl esters N hydroxysuccinimidyl ester succinimidyl ester epoxide aldehyde maleimides imidoesters and the like. The N hydroxysuccinimide esters or N hydroxysulfosuccinimide NHS groups are useful groups for crosslinking of proteins or amine containing polymers e.g. amino terminated polyethylene glycol. An advantage of an NHS amine reaction is that the reaction kinetics are favorable but the gelation rate may be adjusted through pH or concentration. The NHS amine crosslinking reaction leads to formation of N hydroxysuccinimide as a side product. Sulfonated or ethoxylated forms of N hydroxysuccinimide have a relatively increased solubility in water and hence their rapid clearance from the body. An NHS amine crosslinking reaction may be carried out in aqueous solutions and in the presence of buffers e.g. phosphate buffer pH 5.0 7.5 triethanolamine buffer pH 7.5 9.0 or borate buffer pH 9.0 12 or sodium bicarbonate buffer pH 9.0 10.0 . Aqueous solutions of NHS based crosslinkers and functional polymers preferably are made just before the crosslinking reaction due to reaction of NHS groups with water. The reaction rate of these groups may be delayed by keeping these solutions at lower pH pH 4 7 .

In some embodiments each precursor comprises only nucleophilic or only electrophilic functional groups so long as both nucleophilic and electrophilic precursors are used in the crosslinking reaction. Thus for example if a crosslinker has nucleophilic functional groups such as amines the functional polymer may have electrophilic functional groups such as N hydroxysuccinimides. On the other hand if a crosslinker has electrophilic functional groups such as sulfosuccinimides then the functional polymer may have nucleophilic functional groups such as amines or thiols. Thus functional polymers such as proteins poly allyl amine or amine terminated di or multifunctional poly ethylene glycol can be used.

One embodiment has reactive precursor species with 3 to 16 nucleophilic functional groups each and reactive precursor species with 2 to 12 electrophilic functional groups each artisans will immediately appreciate that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated.

The functional groups may be e.g. electrophiles reactable with nucleophiles groups reactable with specific nucleophiles e.g. primary amines groups that form amide bonds with materials in the biological fluids groups that form amide bonds with carboxyls activated acid functional groups or a combination of the same. The functional groups may be e.g. a strong electrophilic functional group meaning an electrophilic functional group that effectively forms a covalent bond with a primary amine in aqueous solution at pH 9.0 at room temperature and pressure and or an electrophilic group that reacts by a of Michael type reaction. The strong electrophile may be of a type that does not participate in a Michaels type reaction or of a type that participates in a Michaels type reaction.

A Michael type reaction refers to the 1 4 addition reaction of a nucleophile on a conjugate unsaturated system. The addition mechanism could be purely polar or proceed through a radical like intermediate state s Lewis acids or appropriately designed hydrogen bonding species can act as catalysts. The term conjugation can refer both to alternation of carbon carbon carbon heteroatom or heteroatom heteroatom multiple bonds with single bonds or to the linking of a functional group to a macromolecule such as synthetic polymer or a protein. Michael type reactions are discussed in detail in U.S. Pat. No. 6 958 212 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety for all purposes to the extent it does not contradict what is explicitly disclosed herein.

Examples of strong electrophiles that do not participate in a Michaels type reaction are succinimides succinimidyl esters or NHS esters. Examples of Michael type electrophiles are acrylates methacrylates methylmethacrylates and other unsaturated polymerizable groups.

In general the precursors may be combined to make a covalently crosslinked hydrogel. The hydrogel may comprise a therapeutic agent or agents released over a suitable period of time. Hydrogels may be made beforehand or in situ.

When made in situ the crosslinking reactions generally occur in aqueous solution under physiological conditions. The crosslinking reactions preferably do not release heat of polymerization or require exogenous energy sources for initiation or to trigger polymerization. Photochemical initiation for instance is generally to be avoided in the eye so as to avoid damage to the eye.

The hydrogel may be generally low swelling as measurable by the hydrogel having a weight increasing no more than about 50 upon exposure to a physiological solution in the absence of physical restraints for twenty four hours relative to a weight of the hydrogel at the time of formation. Swelling may be measured or expressed by weight or volume. Some embodiments swell by weight or by volume no more than about 50 no more than about 20 or no more than about 0 artisans will immediately appreciate that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated e.g. shrinkage from 10 to 20 negative swelling swelling from 10 to no more than 50 . One aspect of swelling is that large changes will increase the difficulty of achieving a desired hydrogel size. For instance filling a depression in a tissue with a swelling hydrogel will cause the hydrogel to have a height that is not apparent to the user at the time of application and or gelation. Similarly swelling and shrinkage can create forces that tend to pull the hydrogel away from surrounding tissues so that adherence is affected.

One approach for low swelling is increase the number of crosslinks or solids content. Increasing in these factors however will typically effect the mechanical properties of the gel with more crosslinks making the gel more brittle but stronger and a higher solids content making the gel stronger. These factors can also increase degradation time and may affect interactions with cells.

Unless otherwise indicated swelling of a hydrogel relates to its change in volume or weight between the time of its formation when crosslinking is effectively complete and the time after being placed in in vitro aqueous solution in an unconstrained state for twenty four hours at which point it may be reasonably assumed to have achieved its equilibrium swelling state. For most embodiments crosslinking is effectively complete within no more than about three minutes such that the initial weight can generally be noted at about 15 minutes after formation as Weight at initial formation. Accordingly this formula is used swelling Weight at 24 hours Weight at initial formation Weight at initial formation 100. The weight of the hydrogel includes the weight of the solution in the hydrogel.

Reaction kinetics are generally controlled in light of the particular functional groups their concentrations and the local pH unless an external initiator or chain transfer agent is required in which case triggering the initiator or manipulating the transfer agent can be a controlling step. In some embodiments the molecular weights of the precursors are used to affect reaction times. Precursors with lower molecular weights tend to speed the reaction due to their higher concentration of reactive groups so that some embodiments have at least one precursor with a molecular weight of less than about 1000 or about 2000 Daltons artisans will immediately appreciate that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated e.g. from 100 to about 900 Daltons or from 500 to about 1800 Daltons.

The crosslinking density of the resultant biocompatible crosslinked polymer is controlled by the overall molecular weight of the crosslinker and functional polymer and the number of functional groups available per molecule. A lower molecular weight between crosslinks such as 500 will give much higher crosslinking density as compared to a higher molecular weight such as 10 000. The crosslinking density also may be controlled by the overall percent solids of the crosslinker and functional polymer solutions. Increasing the percent solids increases the probability that an electrophilic functional group will combine with a nucleophilic functional group prior to inactivation by hydrolysis. Yet another method to control crosslink density is by adjusting the stoichiometry of nucleophilic functional groups to electrophilic functional groups. A one to one ratio leads to the highest crosslink density. Precursors with longer distances between crosslinks are generally softer more compliant and more elastic. Thus an increased length of a water soluble segment such as a polyethylene glycol tends to enhance elasticity to produce desirable physical properties. Thus certain embodiments are directed to precursors with water soluble segments having molecular weights in the range of 3 000 to 100 000 artisans will immediately appreciate that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated e.g. 10 000 to 35 000.

The solids content of the hydrogel can affect its mechanical properties and biocompatibility and reflects a balance between competing requirements. A relatively low solids content is useful e.g. between about 2.5 to about 20 including all ranges and values there between e.g. about 2.5 to about 10 about 5 to about 15 or less than about 15 .

An embodiment for making a hydrogel in situ in the presence of a therapeutic agent is to combine precursors in an aqueous solution that can be administered with an applicator to the punctum and or canaliculus and thereafter form the hydrogel. The precursors may be mixed with an activating agent before during or after administration. The hydrogel may be placed with a therapeutic agent dispersed therein e.g. as a solution suspension particles micelles or encapsulated. Crosslinking in one embodiment entraps the agent. In another embodiment the crosslinking causes the agent to precipitate or move from solution to suspension.

Thus one embodiment relates to combining a first hydrogel precursor with a first type of functional groups with a second hydrogel precursor having a second type of functional groups in an aqueous solvent in the presence of a therapeutic agent in the solvent. In one embodiment the precursors are dissolved separately and combined in the presence of an activating agent that provides for effective crosslinking. Alternatively the mere mixing of the precursors triggers crosslinking. Accordingly one embodiment is providing branched polymer having a plurality of succinimidyl termini dissolved in a low pH 4.0 diluent solution containing a low molecular weight precursor comprising nucleophiles. This solution is activated by combination with a higher pH solution 8.8 initiating the crosslinking mechanism. The agent is pre loaded as a suspension in the diluent solution. The solution is applied to a canaliculus or drawn into a small e.g. 1 cc syringe with a suitable cannula e.g. 27 G and injected into the canaliculus. The gel forms in situ.

A hydrogel network may be formed with a therapeutic agent optionally being present at the time of hydrogel network formation. The term therapeutic agent includes diagnostic agents imaging agents and drugs. The term drug refers to an agent intended to provoke a biological response so as to treat a patient. The hydrogels may be biodegradable or non biodegradable.

The therapeutic agent may be dispersed meaning spread substantially throughout a structure either as a solution suspension or a colloid within the hydrogel. The agent may be dispersed in the same phase as the fluid hydrating the hydrogel or it may be contained in a phase discontinuous from the fluid in the hydrogel. A phase discontinuous from the hydrogel may be a micelle droplet or a particle. Accordingly a drug entrapped within microspheres dispersed within a hydrogel is a drug dispersed within the hydrogel. By way of contrast a drug localized to a reservoir is not dispersed. A micelle droplet or a particle may include for instance a mixture of the drug with another material e.g. a polymer. One embodiment of a particle is a capsule with the drug inside the capsule. Another embodiment of a particle is a solid formed by a polymer that associates with the drug. A particle may release a drug as it degrades by diffusion or a combination thereof. These features may be combined to provide a desired agent release profile. A hydrogel with an agent dispersed through the hydrogel refers to a continuous hydrogel matrix with a substantially even distribution of agent throughout the structure.

An embodiment for making a hydrogel in situ in the presence of a therapeutic agent is to combine precursors in an aqueous solution that can be administered with an applicator to the eye and thereafter form the hydrogel. The precursors may be mixed with an activating agent before during or after administration. The hydrogel may be placed with a therapeutic agent dispersed therein e.g. as a solution suspension particles micelles or encapsulated. Crosslinking in one embodiment entraps the agent. In another embodiment the crosslinking causes the agent to precipitate or move from solution to suspension.

Thus one embodiment relates to combining a first hydrogel precursor with a first type of functional groups with a second hydrogel precursor having a second type of functional groups in an aqueous solvent in the presence of a therapeutic agent in the solvent. In one embodiment the precursors are dissolved separately and combined in the presence of an activating agent that provides for effective crosslinking. Alternatively the mere mixing of the precursors triggers crosslinking. Accordingly one embodiment is providing branched polymer having a plurality of succinimidyl termini dissolved in a low pH 4.0 diluent solution containing a low molecular weight precursor comprising nucleophiles. This solution is activated by combination with a higher pH solution 8.8 initiating the crosslinking mechanism. The agent is pre loaded as a suspension in the diluent solution. The solution is applied to a eye or drawn into a small e.g. 1 cc syringe with a suitable cannula e.g. 27 G and injected onto the eye. The gel forms in situ. Further options for application are detailed herein.

The hydrogels may include a therapeutic agent. Table 1 sets forth some embodiments of conditions and treatments. Methods include selecting a patient diagnosed with the indication choosing a drug category or a specific drug and delivering the drug with a hydrogel as set forth herein.

The hydrogel may be used to deliver classes of drugs including steroids Non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDS intraocular pressure lowering drugs antibiotics or others. The hydrogel may be used to deliver drugs and therapeutic agents e.g. an anti inflammatory e.g. Diclofenac a pain reliever e.g. Bupivacaine a Calcium channel blocker e.g. Nifedipine an Antibiotic e.g. Ciprofloxacin a Cell cycle inhibitor e.g. Simvastatin a protein e.g. Insulin . The rate of release from the hydrogel will depend on the properties of the drug and the hydrogel with factors including drug sizes relative hydrophobicities hydrogel density hydrogel solids content and the presence of other drug delivery motifs e.g. microparticles.

The hydrogel may be used to deliver classes of drugs including steroids NSAIDS intraocular pressure lowering drugs antibiotics pain relievers inhibitors or vascular endothelial growth factor VEGF chemotherapeutics anti viral drugs etc. The drugs themselves may be small molecules proteins RNA fragments proteins glycosaminoglycans carbohydrates nucleic acid inorganic and organic biologically active compounds where specific biologically active agents include but are not limited to enzymes antibiotics antineoplastic agents local anesthetics hormones angiogenic agents anti angiogenic agents growth factors antibodies neurotransmitters psychoactive drugs anticancer drugs chemotherapeutic drugs drugs affecting reproductive organs genes and oligonucleotides or other configurations. The drugs that have low water solubility may be incorporated e.g. as particulates or as a suspension. Higher water solubility drugs may be loaded within microparticles or liposomes. Microparticles can be formed from e.g. PLGA or fatty acids. Examples of NSAIDS are Ibuprofen Meclofenamate sodium mefanamic acid salsalate sulindac tolmetin sodium ketoprofen diflunisal piroxicam naproxen etodolac flurbiprofen fenoprofen calcium Indomethacin celoxib ketrolac and nepafenac.

A variety of drugs or other therapeutic agents may be delivered using these systems. A list of agents or families of drugs and examples of indications for the agents are provided. The agents may also be used as part of a method of treating the indicated condition or making a composition for treating the indicated condition. For example AZOPT a brinzolamide opthalmic suspension may be used for treatment of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with ocular hypertension or open angle glaucoma. BETADINE in a Povidone iodine ophthalmic solution may be used for prepping of the periocular region and irrigation of the ocular surface. BETOPTIC betaxolol HCl may be used to lower intraocular pressure or for chronic open angle glaucoma and or ocular hypertension. CILOXAN Ciprofloxacin HCl opthalmic solution may be used to treat infections caused by susceptible strains of microorganisms. NATACYN Natamycin opthalmic suspension may be used for treatment of fungal blepharitis conjunctivitis and keratitis. NEVANAC Nepanfenac opthalmic suspension may be used for treatment of pain and inflammation associated with cataract surgery. TRAVATAN Travoprost ophthalmic solution may be used for reduction of elevated intraocular pressure open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. FML FORTE Fluorometholone ophthalmic suspension may be used for treatment of corticosteroid responsive inflammation of the palperbral and bulbar conjunctiva cornea and anterior segment of the globe. LUMIGAN Bimatoprost ophthalmic solution may be used for reduction of elevated intraocular pressure open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. PRED FORTE Prednisolone acetate may be used for treatment of steroid responsive inflammation of the palpebral and bulbar conjunctiva cornea and anterior segment of the globe. PROPINE Dipivefrin hydrochloride may be used for control of intraocular pressure in chronic open angle glaucoma. RESTASIS Cyclosporine ophthalmic emulsion may be used to increases tear production in patients e.g. those with ocular inflammation associated with keratoconjunctivitis sicca. ALREX Loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension may be used for temporary relief of seasonal allergic conjunctivitis. LOTEMAX Loteprednol etabonate ophthalmic suspension may be used for treatment of steroid responsive inflammation of the palpebral and bulbar conjunctiva cornea and anterior segment of the globe. MACUGEN Pegaptanib sodium injection may be used for Treatment of neovascular wet age related macular degeneration. OPTIVAR Azelastine hydrochloride may be used for treatment of itching of the eye associated with allergic conjunctivitis. XALATAN Latanoprost ophthalmic solution may be used to reduce elevated intraocular pressure in patients e.g. with open angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. BETIMOL Timolol opthalmic solution may be used for treatment of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with ocular hypertension or open angle glaucoma. Latanoprost is the pro drug of the free acid form which is a prostanoid selective FP receptor agonist. Latanoprost reduces intraocular pressure in glaucoma patients with few side effects. Latanoprost has a relatively low solubility in aqueous solutions but is readily soluble in organic solvents typically employed for fabrication of microspheres using solvent evaporation.

One embodiment comprises extended release of a medication for allergic conjunctivitis. For instance ketotifen an antihistamine and mast cell stabilizer may be released to the eye as described herein in effective amounts to treat allergic conjunctivitis. Seasonal Allergic Conjunctivitis SAC and Perennial Allergic Conjunctivitis PAC are allergic conjunctival disorders. Symptoms include itching and pink to reddish eyes. These two eye conditions are mediated by mast cells. Non specific measures to ameliorate symptoms conventionally include cold compresses eyewashes with tear substitutes and avoidance of allergens. Treatment conventionally consists of antihistamine mast cell stabilizers dual mechanism anti allergen agents or topical antihistamines. Corticosteroids might be effective but because of side effects are reserved for more severe forms of allergic conjunctivitis such as vernal keratoconjunctivitis VKC and atopic keratoconjunctivitis AKC .

Moxifloxacin is the active ingredient in VIGAMOX which is a fluoroquinolone approved for use to treat or prevent ophthalmic bacterial infections. Dosage is typically one drop of a 0.5 solution that is administered 3 times a day for a period of one week or more.

VKC and AKC are chronic allergic diseases where eosinophils conjunctival fibroblasts epithelial cells mast cells and or TH2 lymphocytes aggravate the biochemistry and histology of the conjunctiva. VKC and AKC can be treated by medications used to combat allergic conjunctivitis.

Accordingly embodiments include hydrogels that incorporate one or more of the agents. The agents may be incorporated using one or more processes herein e.g. with or without microspheres. The hydrogels may be used to make medicaments for administration of an effective amount of the agent over a predetermined time to treat the conditions indicated.

Some therapeutic agents are visualization agents. A visualization agent may be used with a hydrogel it reflects or emits light at a wavelength detectable to a human eye so that a user applying the hydrogel can observe the gel. Some useful visualization agents are FD C BLUE 1 FD C BLUE 2 and methylene blue. Such agents may be used with microsphere and or hydrogel embodiments set forth herein.

These agents when dispersed in a hydrogel are preferably present at a concentration of more than 0.05 mg ml and preferably in a concentration range of at least 0.1 to about 12 mg ml and more preferably in the range of 0.1 to 4.0 mg ml although greater concentrations may potentially be used up to the limit of solubility of the visualization agent. These concentration ranges can give a color to the hydrogel without interfering with crosslinking times for electrophilic nucleophilic reactive precursor embodiments as measured by the time for the reactive precursor species to gel .

Visualization agents may be selected from among any of the various non toxic colored substances suitable for use in medical implantable medical devices such as FD C BLUE dyes 3 and 6 eosin methylene blue indocyanine green or colored dyes normally found in synthetic surgical sutures. The visualization agent may be present with either reactive precursor species e.g. a crosslinker or functional polymer solution. The preferred colored substance may or may not become chemically bound to the hydrogel. The visualization agent may generally be used in small quantities preferably less than 1 weight volume more preferably less that 0.01 weight volume and most preferably less than 0.001 weight volume concentration.

Additional machine aided imaging agents may be used such as fluorescent compounds x ray contrast agents e.g. iodinated compounds for imaging under x ray imaging equipment ultrasonic contrast agents or MRI contrast agents e.g. Gadolinium containing compounds .

Compositions have been formulated to use visualization agents with advantages that were unexpected. One is that a user can see the gel on the applicator to ensure adequate material for covering the tissue is present another is the user can see the gel when it is applied but after application and spreading of the solution the patient does not detect the coloration spread in a thin layer across the eye.

In some embodiments the therapeutic agent or agents are present in a separate phase when precursor s are reacted to produce a crosslinked polymer hydrogel. This phase separation prevents participation of therapeutic agents in the chemical crosslinking reaction such as reaction between N hydroxysuccinimide NHS ester and amine group. The separate phase also helps to modulate the release kinetics of active agent from the crosslinked material or gel where separate phase could be oil oil in water emulsion biodegradable vehicle and the like. Biodegradable vehicles in which the active agent may be present include encapsulation vehicles such as microparticles microspheres microbeads micropellets and the like where the active agent is encapsulated in a bioerodable or bioresorbable polymer such as polymers and copolymers of poly anhydride poly hydroxy acid s poly lactone s poly trimethylene carbonate poly glycolic acid poly lactic acid poly glycolic acid co poly glycolic acid poly orthocarbonate poly caprolactone caging and entrapping molecules like cyclodextrin molecular sieves and the like. Microspheres made from polymers and copolymers of poly lactone s and poly hydroxy acid s are useful biodegradable encapsulation vehicles.

Certain embodiments of the invention are accomplished by providing compositions and methods to control the release of relatively low molecular weight therapeutic species using hydrogels. A therapeutic agent first is dispersed or dissolved within one or more relatively hydrophobic rate modifying agents to form a mixture. The mixture may be formed into particles or microparticles which are then entrapped within a bioabsorbable hydrogel matrix so as to release the water soluble therapeutic agents in a controlled fashion. Alternatively the microparticles may be formed in situ during crosslinking of the hydrogel. Drugs can be encapsulated using a variety of techniques for the purpose of controlled release prior to incorporation into a hydrogel. These controlled release systems may be forms of suspensions oil solutions emulsions liposomes micelles implants and microparticles. Polymeric controlled release systems are commonly used in the pharmaceutical industry to provide sustained release with well over a dozen marketed products based on biodegradable polymers. Synthetic forms of biodegradable polymers may include polyorthoesters polyanhydrides polyphosazenes polyamino acids polyalkylcyanoacrylates polyesters such as polycaprolactone polydioxanone polytrimethylenecarbonate etc. and the more frequently employed polyesters poly lactide PLA and poly lactide co glycolide PLGA .

With respect to microparticle fabrication techniques hydrophilic drugs are typically incorporated in the inner aqueous phase see multiple emulsion method or as solids dispersed in the oil phase see dispersion method whereas lipophilic drugs are generally dissolved in the organic oil phase see cosolvent method . With respect to solvent casting the drugs are incorporated similarly to the cosolvent method minus the continuous phase necessary for microparticle formation. With respect to melt extrusion or compression techniques the drugs may be incorporated in their initial state in the absence of solvent. Variations of these incorporation techniques exist and may be adjusted as multiple variables e.g. drug loading solubility solvent selection and blends polymer concentration polymer type and blends excipients targeted release duration drug stability play a role in selecting the best choice to incorporate the drug into the polymer matrix.

In one method hydrogel microspheres are formed from polymerizable macromers or monomers by dispersion of a polymerizable phase in a second immiscible phase wherein the polymerizable phase contains at least one component required to initiate polymerization that leads to crosslinking and the immiscible bulk phase contains another component required to initiate crosslinking along with a phase transfer agent. Pre formed microparticles containing the water soluble therapeutic agent may be dispersed in the polymerizable phase or formed in situ to form an emulsion. Polymerization and crosslinking of the emulsion and the immiscible phase is initiated in a controlled fashion after dispersal of the polymerizable phase into appropriately sized microspheres thus entrapping the microparticles in the hydrogel microspheres. Visualization agents may be included for instance in the microspheres microparticles and or microdroplets.

Embodiments of the invention include compositions and methods for forming composite hydrogel based matrices and microspheres having entrapped therapeutic compounds. In one embodiment a bioactive agent is entrapped in microparticles having a hydrophobic nature also termed hydrophobic microdomains to retard leakage of the entrapped agent. In some cases the composite materials that have two phase dispersions where both phases are absorbable but are not miscible. For example the continuous phase may be a hydrophilic network such as a hydrogel which may or may not be crosslinked while the dispersed phase may be hydrophobic such as an oil fat fatty acid wax fluorocarbon or other synthetic or natural water immiscible phase generically referred to herein as an oil or hydrophobic phase .

The oil phase entraps the drug and provides a barrier to release by slow partitioning of the drug into the hydrogel. The hydrogel phase in turn protects the oil from digestion by enzymes such as lipases and from dissolution by naturally occurring lipids and surfactants. The latter are expected to have only limited penetration into the hydrogel for example due to hydrophobicity molecular weight conformation diffusion resistance etc. In the case of a hydrophobic drug which has limited solubility in the hydrogel matrix the particulate form of the drug may also serve as the release rate modifying agent.

Hydrophobic microdomains by themselves may be degraded or quickly cleared when administered in vivo making it difficult to achieve prolonged release directly using microdroplets or microparticles containing the entrapped agent in vivo. In accordance with the present invention however the hydrophobic microdomains are sequestered in a gel matrix. The gel matrix protects the hydrophobic microdomains from rapid clearance but does not impair the ability of the microdroplets or microparticles to release their contents slowly. Visualization agents may be included for instance in the gel matrix or the microdomains.

In one embodiment a microemulsion of a hydrophobic phase and an aqueous solution of a water soluble molecular compound such as a protein peptide or other water soluble chemical is prepared. The emulsion is of the water in oil type with oil as the continuous phase as opposed to an oil in water system where water is the continuous phase . Other aspects of drug delivery are found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 632 457 6 379 373 and 6 514 534 each of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety. Moreover drug delivery schemes as described in U.S. Ser. No. 12 012 808 filed Feb. 6 2008 and its priority document 60 899 898 filed Feb. 6 2007 which are each hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety and accordingly may also be used with the hydrogels and particles herein.

Controlled rates of therapeutic agent delivery also may be obtained with the system disclosed herein by degradable covalent attachment of the therapeutic agents to the crosslinked hydrogel network. The nature of the covalent attachment can be controlled to enable control of the release rate from hours to weeks or longer. By using a composite made from multiple linkages with a range of hydrolysis times a controlled release profile may be extended for longer durations.

Agents can be encapsulated using a variety of techniques for the purpose of controlled release for incorporation into the hydrogels e.g. by mixing into the solution of precursors applied to an eye. For instance the agents may be placed in a depot or in a diluent or a separate solution mixed with the precursors. These controlled release systems may be forms of suspensions oil solutions emulsions liposomes micelles implants and microparticles. Polymeric controlled release systems are commonly used in the pharmaceutical industry to provide sustained release with well over a dozen marketed products based on biodegradable polymers. Synthetic forms of biodegradable polymers may include polyorthoesters polyanhydrides polyphosazenes polyamino acids polyalkylcyanoacrylates polyesters such as polycaprolactone polydioxanone polytrimethylenecarbonate etc. and the more frequently employed polyesters poly lactide PLA and poly lactide co glycolide PLGA .

Polyesters such as poly lactide PLA and its glycolic acid copolymer poly lactide co glycolide PLGA may be used as a drug carrier due to their biocompatibility biodegradability and mechanical strength. They degrade by hydrolysis of the ester backbone and their degradation products i.e. lactic and glycolic acids are metabolic compounds. Degradation by hydrolysis refers to the spontaneous breaking of covalent bonds in water without a role for enzymes hydrolytically degradable materials thus will degrade over time in a solution of water that is free of enzymes. Polyesters such as poly lactide PLA and its glycolic acid copolymer poly lactide co glycolide PLGA are most commonly used as a drug carrier due to their excellent biocompatibility biodegradability and mechanical strength. They degrade by hydrolysis of the ester backbone and their degradation products i.e. lactic and glycolic acids are metabolic compounds. Incorporation of drug into polyesters can be performed using a variety of techniques such as melt extrusion compression solvent casting injection molding in situ polymerization and micro and or nanoparticles. Microparticles can be formed by granulation of the aforementioned extruded compressed or cast polymer systems or they can be formed using techniques such as spray drying spray freeze drying phase separation coacervation and solvent evaporation. Solvent evaporation may employ techniques to encapsulate the drug dependent upon the lipophilicity and or hydrophilicity of the drug.

Incorporation of agents into polyesters can be performed using a variety of techniques such as melt extrusion compression solvent casting injection molding in situ polymerization and micro and or nanoparticles. Microparticles can be formed by granulation of the aforementioned extruded compressed or cast polymer systems or they can be formed using techniques such as spray drying spray freeze drying phase separation coacervation and solvent evaporation. Solvent evaporation may employ different techniques to encapsulate the drug dependent upon the lipophilicity and or hydrophilicity of the agent.

With respect to microparticle fabrication techniques hydrophilic agents are typically incorporated in the inner aqueous phase or as solids dispersed in the oil phase whereas lipophilic agents are generally dissolved in the organic oil phase see cosolvent. With respect to solvent casting the agents are incorporated similarly to the cosolvent method minus the continuous phase necessary for microparticle formation. With respect to melt extrusion or compression techniques the agents are generally incorporated in their initial state in the absence of solvent. Variations of these incorporation techniques exist and should be adjusted on a case by case basis as multiple variables e.g. drug loading solubility solvent selection and blends polymer concentration polymer type and blends excipients targeted release duration drug stability etc. play a role in selecting the best choice to incorporate the drug into the polymer matrix. U.S. Ser. No. 12 704 692 filed Feb. 12 2010 is hereby incorporated herein by reference for all purposes in case of conflict the instant specification controls.

The hydrogel is in general water degradable as measurable by the hydrogel being dissolvable in vitro in an excess of water by degradation of water degradable groups. This test is predictive of hydrolytically driven dissolution in vivo a process that is in contrast to cell or protease driven degradation. Significantly however polyanhydrides or other conventionally used degradable materials that degrade to acidic components tend to cause inflammation in the eye. The hydrogels however may exclude such materials and may be free of polyanhydrides anhydride bonds or precursors that degrade into acid or diacids. Instead for example SG succinimidyl glutarate SS succinimidyl succinate SC succinimidyl carbonate SAP succinimidyl adipate carboxymethyl hydroxybutyric acid CM HBA may be used and have esteric linkages that are hydrolytically labile. More hydrophobic linkages such as suberate linkages may also be used with these linkages being less degradable than succinate glutarate or adipate linkages.

The crosslinked hydrogel degradation will generally proceed by the water driven hydrolysis of the biodegradable segment when water degradable materials are used. Polymers that include ester linkages may also be included to provide a desired degradation rate with groups being added or subtracted near the esters to increase or decrease the rate of degradation. Thus it is possible to construct a hydrogel with a desired degradation profile from a few days to many months using a degradable segment.

Embodiments include hydrogels as described herein for treatment of a tissue. The hydrogels may be homogeneous i.e. may be made and used as a single material meaning that they are made with one matrix material that is the same throughout e.g. with no added coverings sleeves sheathes overcoats reservoir portions or other added materials. Some embodiments are made with a uniform macroscopic structure such that they have no openings into the hydrogel i.e. the material lacks tunnels or macro pore structures bearing in mind that a hydrogel will have a certain native porosity. A homogenous hydrogel may include agents dispersed therein.

The covalently crosslinked hydrogels have advantages over non crosslinked hydrogels that are not conventionally appreciated. One advantage is that coacervates alginate or ionic crosslinks tend to break and re form as the gel is strained such that there is a permanent shape change. Thus water can be squeezed out of such materials in an ocular setting. But the covalently crosslinked hydrogels absorb water and do not re form their crosslinks in response to a strain. The covalent crosslinking also may be used to provide for a gel with structural strength that allows firm grasping and forceful removal by forceps or tools even when hydrated. Accordingly methods include manual retrieval of a hydrogel after its application including retrieval for patients experiencing a poor response or the recovery of non degradable hydrogels or hydrogels designed to degrade at a point longer than the intended time of hydrogel use.

An embodiment of a system for applying a hydrogel as set forth herein is described. In this embodiment a tray with a well is provided. In a two precursor system one of the precursors is applied to a first portion of the well to form a first deposit and another of the precursors is applied to a separate portion of the well. Further precursors may be combined with one or more of the deposits or applied as an nth deposit. A volume of purified water or an aqueous solution with buffers or other materials is delivered to one or more of the deposits. The deposit s are allowed to dissolve in the volume and then mixed together with a mixing rod. The term mixing rod is broad and includes embodiments that are equivalent to the rod for mixing small volumes e.g. spoons spears tubes. The precursors when spontaneously reactive with each other begin to crosslink to form the hydrogel. An applicator with a delivery surface is introduced into the mixture and picks up a desired volume. A user then transfers some or the greater part of the volume or substantially all of the volume to an eye.

The term delivery surface sized to hold a volume of no more than about 100 l of a liquid volume means that dipping the surface into a body of pure distilled water and withdrawing the surface recovers no more than about 100 l of the water. The term delivery surface refers to a discrete surface in its entirety. In the context of a device the delivery surface can be well understood by the artisan for instance a sponge or brush on the end of a mixing rod or the portion that holds the volume when used as intended when transferring from a liquid to an eye. The term transfer in the context of use with a delivery surface means that the volume that is held by the applicator has to be substantially transferred or transferable to an eye which is a delicate tissue. For the sake of clarity these terms are to be tested in the context of holding and transferring pure distilled water. Accordingly a cotton ball will not substantially transfer the volume of water because it tends to absorb the water. On the other hand a small brush can hold the volume of water and transfer the greater portion of the volume.

As is correspondingly set forth in U.S. Ser. No. 12 012 606 filed Feb. 2 2008 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein for all purposes in the case of conflict the instant specification controls a delivery surface is configured to provide a controllable amount of solution in a predetermined volume range so that the user can conveniently pick up as much solution as is reasonably needed not too much and not too little. For instance the delivery surface can be sized and proportioned to provide a drop in a range or subrange from about 5 microliters to about 500 microliters artisans will immediately appreciate that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated e.g. from about 5 microliters to about 100 microliters from about 20 microliters to about 200 microliters less than about 100 microliters or less than about 50 microliters. Such a range can be controlled by providing a taper surface area and hydrophobicity of the tip in light of a density of the solution for instance a surface that is relatively hydrophobic can cause the solution to bead and form a drop as opposed to spreading more broadly on the surface to provide a larger drop size. The surface area of the delivery surface and consequently the size of the surface as well as its hydrophobicity control the size of the droplet volume that is naturally picked up. Some embodiments further control a size of droplet pickup by capillary forces created by including a feature on the applicator tip. Such feature may be for example a dimple a crescent a groove a slit a slot or other indentation.

In general for delicate tissues e.g. a cornea the applicator delivery surface may be of a type that is atraumatic to the corneal or other delicate tissue surfaces so as to not induce trauma such as a corneal abrasion during normal application manipulation. A closed cell foam is suited for the material of the applicator tip. Also suitable is a hydrophobic closed cell foam such as a polyethylene foam. Another embodiment is a soft brush that is sized to hold a suitable volume without retaining the greater part of it. The applicator delivery surface may be designed to not absorb a significant portion of liquid by itself since this can create variability in the amount of material delivered to the application site. The amount needed to be delivered may be less than 10 microliters which is smaller than one drop for instance opthalmic sealant applications typically require small volumes of materials. If the applicator delivery surface is made from a sponge or other material that absorb a significant amount of the liquid then the application will have variability. Application of too much of a material e.g. as in a hydrogel to the surface of the cornea can create patient discomfort. Accordingly delivery surfaces may be chosen that absorb less than about 30 less than about 20 less than about 10 or essentially 0 of a solution s volume including the case wherein the volume is less than about 100 about 50 about 20 or about 10 microliters. As is apparent embodiments of the applicator may have one or more of these features.

Dropper is a broad term that refers to a device that can deliver drops. Alternatives include bulbous droppers and pipettes or pipetting systems e.g as in U.S. Pat. Nos. 703 101 3 158 183 4 117 728 or 5 154 702 each of which are hereby incorporated by reference herein to the extent they do not contradict what is explicitly disclosed. Another embodiment is an ampoule with a cap that covers an opening sized to deliver its contents in small volumes e.g. dropwise In general users can manually perform dropwise dispensing with good accuracy using a suitable dropper. Single use droppers are generally convenient for purposes of sterility.

While a two precursor system is described in detail embodiments nonetheless include variations wherein one precursor or all precursors are provided in one deposit and other components are provided in another deposit or in an aqueous solution for mixing with the deposit. For instance the precursors may be placed in one deposit with buffering agents as needed to provide for a slow reaction and then mixed with buffers that change the pH or other accelerants for the reaction that provide for an increase in reaction rate after introduction to the precursors. The various precursors and hydrogel forming compositions set forth herein may accordingly be used.

An embodiment of one such system is set forth in . Tray has well with first deposit and second deposit . A second well and deposits are provided for redundancy. A dropper is used to apply a drop of aqueous solution to deposits to make solutions . Applicator has mixing rod on one end and delivery surface a brush on the opposing end. A user optionally mixes one or more of the deposits with the mixing rod to make sure it is in solution and then mixes solutions with each other to form mixture . The user then picks up a volume of the mixture from well with the delivery surface and subsequently transfers at least a portion of the mixture to an intended site of delivery on a patient s tissue e.g. the cornea or a de epithelialized zone.

Trays may be made of mechanically suitable materials e.g. engineering polymers polycarbonate polyethylene polypropylene TYVEK or polyether ether ketone. There may be one or more wells. Precursors may be dried from aqueous or organic solutions or alcohols freeze dried or lyophilized. Kits may be made to house the components within a single sterile housing e.g. covered tray pouch or packaging. The housing may be for instance a box pouch plastic container or some combination thereof. In general the housing is designed for and made of materials for sterilization by conventional medical methods e.g. radiation or ethylene oxide.

Various embodiments of an ocular bandage including coatings layers hydrogels and pre formed materials are described herein. As is evident these embodiments of materials applied to an eye may be used as a complete bandage solution and without further structures. Accordingly such materials may be used in systems and methods that after being applied are free of lenses molds hard materials glass engineering plastics additional refractive materials and additional layers or coatings. Further as is evident in context embodiments are described that have no more than one layer of a material with the hydrogel or other material providing the complete bandage. Accordingly a layer or a hydrogel may be provided that has a surface applied to an eye and an opposing surface in contact with the eyelid when the eyelid is closed over the eye. As described below some embodiments comprise two layers with the first layer contacting an eye and a second layer with the second layer contacting the first layer and having an opposing surface that is in contact with an eyelid when the eyelid is closed.

Another system and method for treating a defect is illustrated in . At eye has wounded area with a first fast degrading layer also referred to as a masking layer applied thereupon excepting a plurality of uncoated locations also referred to as tie points . At panel b a second layer is applied thereupon which covers the first layer and also the locations . The second layer degrades more slowly than the first layer so that degradation of the first layer provides ready access for in migration of epithelial cells as at panel c indicated by arrows I. The second layer is directly adhered to eye at a plurality of locations so that its position is retained on eye while the in migration takes place. The upper layer ultimately degrades and locations wherein the upper layer is attached directly to the eye heal. depicts this embodiment in partial elevated cross section. At panel a area is partially covered with a masking layer that leaves tie points on area . At panel b a second layer overlayer is applies. At panel c the masking layer has disintegrated and epithelial cells have replaced the same . At panel d re epithelialization is complete.

The first layer and second layers may be prepared as described herein with the relative biodegradation rates being controlled as described herein with respect to biodegradable materials and or precursors. One of these options relates to choosing among hydrolytically degradable precursors with succinimidyl groups with a choice of groups known to degrade at different rates as a result of exposure to water. Thus for instance the first layer may comprise a hydrogel with succinimidyl groups that hydrolytically degrade more quickly relative to the second layer. One or both of the layers may consist of or be comprised of a biocompatible bioresorbable or dissolvable material that forms a coating e.g. a covalently cross linked hydrogel a hydrogel comprised of non covalent crosslinks a thixotropic solution hyaluronate hydroxymethylproplycellulose PLURONICs a polysaccharide a protein or a combination thereof.

One embodiment of the first layer also referred to herein as a masking layer is a compressed biodegradable material. The material may be dry partially hydrated or fully hydrated before application. For instance hyaluronic acid or other materials may be compressed or stamped or molded into a thin mask that has the plurality of openings. A user places the mask over the zone and subsequently applies an overlayer. For instance a pharmaceutically acceptable grade of gelatin may be stamped into a mask with a plurality of openings that will provide the tie points. The gelatin may be free of covalent crosslinks. The gelatin may be dry stamped or fully or partially solvated before compression. Similarly other degradable materials or materials that are water soluble may be prepared. Further examples are polysaccharides e.g. alginate xanthan gum carrageenan or proteins albumin gelatin .

As an example the first layer may be provided with a degradation rate of about 0.5 to about 5 days artisans will immediately appreciate that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated e.g. in no more than about 1 day no more than about 2 days or between 0.5 and 3 days. Further the second layer may be provided with a degradation time of between for instance about 1 and about 14 days artisans will immediately appreciate that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated e.g about 4 days about 8 days or in a range of about 4 to about 10 days. The second layer may be provided with a degradation time that is relatively greater than the first payer e.g. between about 1 and about 10 days greater artisans will immediately appreciate that all the ranges and values within the explicitly stated ranges are contemplated.

The loci that are free of the first layer and in contact with the second upper layer can be prepared in a variety of ways. A first technique is to apply the first layer with a hand held applicator configured to apply small volumes brush sponge soft tip of material e.g. a thixotropic solution or hydrogel precursors.

Another technique is to pre form the first layer a mask and apply it to the eye. The pre formed layer may be formed of materials described herein e.g. hydrogels PEG hydrogels hydrolytically degradable materials biodegradable materials. The pre formed layer comprises a plurality of openings and is placed on the wounded area. The pre formed layer may be sized to essentially match the wound area without extending beyond it or may be substantially larger than the wound area.

PEG is an acronym for polyethylene glycol or polyethylene oxide a polymer with CHCHO repeats. Molecular weights are abbreviated in thousands e.g. with 15K meaning 15 000 molecular weight i.e. 15 000 Daltons. SG refers to succinimidyl glutarate. SS refers to succinate succinimide. SS and SG are succinimidyl esters that have an ester group that degrades by hydrolysis in water. Hydrolytically degradable thus refers to a material that would spontaneously degrade in vitro in an excess of water without any enzymes or cells present to mediate the degradation. Trilysine also abbreviated LLL is a synthetic tripeptide. Water for injection WFI refers to water used to make up solutions that are intended to be placed in a patient this water is pharmaceutically acceptable meaning that it is highly purified and free of contaminants e.g. pyrogens. Animal models were rabbits which are conventionally accepted as sensitive and suitable models for human treatments.

The hydrogel solutions were prepared by making dried deposits in an elongated well of a polycarbonate tray . Gels were prepared by adding water for injection WFI to each deposit then mixing the two together with a rod. The gels were then applied with a nonabsorbent brush tipped applicator that a user could manipulate to pick up between about 1 l to about 100 l considering the size of the brush and the depth and angle of placement into the mixed drops. The dilution of the mixture of the drops was varied as described. Solids content is reported as the w w content of the precursors compared to total weight of precursors and water.

One deposit consisted of 8 arm 15K SG PEG 8.7 mg sodium phosphate monobasic buffer and FD C Blue 1 0.01 mg . The other deposit consisted of trilysine acetate 0.52 mg sodium phosphate dibasic and sodium tetraborate decahydrate. Water volumes were varied with WFI from 40 l to 280 l in 40 l increments to provide a range of gels with varied solids content. The succinimidyl glutarate amine ratio was 1 1. Degradation In Vitro Phosphate Buffered Saline PBS was added to vials containing the gels. The vials were then transferred to a 37 C. water bath for degradation. The degradation process as tracked by daily visual inspection until complete disappearance of the sample was observed.

Gel time was tested using a polycarbonate rod 2 inch long and one eighth inch diameter to stir the two solutions within the tray well and then lifting the rod 3 inches every second. Gel time gelation was defined as the time by stopwatch required until a strand formed spanning the 3 inches from the solution to the rod.

The epithelium of rabbit eyes were removed to form a circular area on the cornea of 8 mm in diameter. The removal of the epithelium was accomplished by applying a stainless steel tube 8 mm ID to the corneal surface and placing a 20 ethanol water solution in the tube for 30 seconds. The epithelium was then easily removed with a WECK CELL swab. The sample solution was then applied with a limn nylon brush and allowed to gel. The gel was allowed to set for 1 minute before irrigation. The eyes were treated with an antibiotic solution VIGAMOX and a steroid PRED FORT . The eyes were observed daily until the material degraded disappeared or the study was terminated.

Series 1 was tested for the effect of dilution with water for injection WFI on gel time and swelling behavior. The results of this testing are shown in Table 1. The gel time lengthened with dilution due to the reduction of reactant concentrations.

A rabbit study was used to explore the persistence time of the diluted gel for this application. The series 1 material diluted with 160 ul WFI 5.1 solids was applied to the corneal surface after removal of the epithelium. Examination of the animals showed no major difference between treated and control eyes after 24 hours. The second check up at day 5 showed complete healing of the control eye and minor healing in the treated eye. At day 15 the bandage seemed to be persistent on the treated eye with a crescent shape which was believed to be the effect of the mechanical movement of the nictitating third eyelid. Although this material was diluted such that gel time was greater than 1 minute the persistence was greater than fifteen days.

The materials and methods of Example 1 were used except that a buffered diluent was used instead of WFI to make the solution in order to minimize the effect of diluent on the gel time of the composition. For that reason both sodium phosphate dibasic and sodium tetraborate decahydrate salts were changed from being dried deposits in Example 1 to being dissolved in solution with water for injection to make the diluent in Example 2. Gels were prepared by adding diluent to each deposit then mixing the two together. Diluent volumes were varied from 160 l to 320 l in 40 l increments to provide a range of gels with varied solids content. The results are shown in Table 2.

This formulation was diluted with a diluent rather than water as in the Series 1 formulation. Since the diluent contained sodium phosphate dibasic and sodium tetraborate decahydrate it was basic in pH additional diluent resulted in less gel time lengthening than in Series 1. It was found that although the material was diluted to as little as 2.6 solids which is an extremely weak material mechanically degradation time was not decreased enough to match the healing time of the epithelium about one week . In a previous study a dilution of 80 l of another lot of this formulation disappeared at 57 days which is consistent with the trend of these more diluted samples.

Another alternative hydrogel formulation series 3 was tested as in Example 2. The formulation used in series 3 was essentially identical to that used in Example 2 with the exception of the polyethylene glycol PEG macromer. In series 3 the macromer end groups were changed from glutarate SG to succinate SS . The base polymer was an 8 arm 15K PEG SS molecule. The results of this testing are shown in Table 3.

As in Example 2 the effect of dilution is smaller than in Example 1. In fact Example 3 showed no effect of dilution over the range studied. It should be noted that a Example 2 formulation at a dilution of 80 l typically gels in 25 seconds. The Example 2 material in Table 3 shows that at 160 l dilution the gel time is still about 25 seconds which agrees with the results for Example 3 in Table 3.

Experiments were preformed as in Example 1 with changes or further detail as follows. All animals had daily clinical exams for general health. In addition the surgical sites were examined daily for normal healing and infection wound healing observations . All animals were observed for gel retention via observations using fluorescein staining and measurement of the stained dimensions gel retention observations . All animals were observed for re growth of their epithelial layer using visual microscopy with UV exposure and fluorescein staining techniques epithelium regrowth . Histological evaluation was done to assess wound healing and inflammatory cell infiltration to the wound site. Under general anesthesia de epithelialization was performed on both eyes. The left eye was used as the control eye. The right eye was treated with hydrogel. All animals n 10 White New Zealand rabbits received 1 drop of ZYMAR gatifloxacin ophthalmic solution 0.3 in both eyes daily. All eyes also received 2 drops of PRED FORTE 1 Postsurgical since the third eyelids were removed during the procedure. Inflammation in the eyes were ranked as the following Severe Inflammation SI Mild Inflammation MI No Inflammation NI. Two animals were humanely euthanized at every time point. The corneas were processed for evaluation of corneal cross sections. Initial staining was H E.

In this Example the formulation consisted of two dried deposits in an elongated well of a polycarbonate tray. One deposit consisted of 8 arm 15K SS PEG 8.2 mg and sodium phosphate monobasic 0.04 mg . The other deposit consisted of trilysine acetate 0.52 mg and FD C Blue 1 0.01 mg . A diluent solution was prepared containing sodium phosphate dibasic 364.2 mg and sodium tetraborate decahydrate 214.4 mg and water for injection 50 g . Gels were prepared by adding 40 mg of diluent to each deposit then mixing the two together with about 10.2 solids content Table 3 .

Based on the dimensions of the fluorescein stained area caused by the gel in treated eyes or by injured tissue in control eyes the wound area was determined and averaged for each time point. The average reduction of wound area percent over time was calculated as shown in Table 4 and plotted in . Some severe cases of inflammation were observed at day 1 due to the removal of the third eye lids during the procedure at day 0. Mild cases of inflammation were observed past day 2. No signs of inflammation were observed past day 3.

Corneas were collected at different time points and processed for histology. shows cross sections of dissected corneas at day 1. panel a shows a complete de epithelialization of the corneal surface in a control eye. panel b shows a junction between the epithelialized and the gel treated corneal surface. It is typical for hydrogels to be damaged by the process used to prepare the histology slides therefore these micrographs should not be interpreted to represent the gel appearance in vivo. panel c shows the de epithelialized corneal surface treated with a continuous adherent gel coating. Arrowheads mark the transition from epithelialized tissue to non epithelialized tissue.

This experiment demonstrated that the gel met those efficacy targets and performed well in this animal model. The hydrogel material was applied on the de epithelialized corneal surface. The gel showed persistence throughout the healing period. The eyes were essentially healed by day 5 with confirmation of complete healing on day 7.

It should be noted that the persistence of the Ocular Bandage did not interfere with the healing process in the treated eyes when compared to the untreated control eyes past day 3 where the percentage of initial wound area results for control and treated eyes converged.

These results indicated there were no significant differences in the histological appearance of the control and treated eyes at any time point. Analysis of all corneas showed no signs of any inflammatory cell infiltration into the injured area. Minimal edema was noted in all samples with no difference noted between control and treated eyes.

A second experiment not detailed herein was conducted in which neither treated nor control eyes received anti inflammatory drugs. Even without the anti inflammatory drugs minimal inflammation was noted in control and treated eyes.

Additional experiments were performed with the same essential conditions with the solids content being 7.5 or 5 . Histological evaluation of the samples n 8 indicated reduced edema compared to control samples n 4 . Further at day 7 2 of the 4 control samples showed incomplete re epithelialization but only 1 of 8 treated samples showed the same.

This Example was performed as in Example 4 with changes noted as follows. De epithelialization was performed using an Amoils brush to create a 9 mm diameter area. Following this the Amoils brush was modified with an abrasive material and the de epithelialize surface was abraded for 10 seconds with firm pressure. The gel was as in Example 4 except that more diluent 120 mg was used to reduce the concentration to about 6.8 solids. It was applied the same way as in Example 4 keeping the gel substantially in the defect area.

A method of treating a de epithelialized zone on a corneal surface of an eye comprising applying a volume of a solution of a hydrogel precursor in the zone on the eye with the precursor crosslinking to form a covalently crosslinked degradable hydrogel. A composition and or use of a hydrogel for treating a corneal surface of an eye comprising a volume of a hydrogel and or an aqueous solution of a hydrogel precursor that forms a hydrogel . A kit system and or process for treating an eye comprising components to prepare a volume of a flowable aqueous solution of hydrogel precursors that has a pH of between about 6 and about 8 with the precursors spontaneously crosslinking to form a covalently crosslinked hydrolytically degradable hydrogel. A method of a use of and a composition for reducing pain following photorefractive keratectomy that creates a de epithelialized zone on a corneal surface comprising applying a volume of a flowable aqueous solution of a hydrogel precursor in the zone on the eye with the precursor spontaneously crosslinking to form a crosslinked hydrogel. A kit of medical hydrogel components in a single housing that comprises a well or a flat surface or a surface with the same being applicable to other embodiments using a well a first hydrogel precursor in a dry form immobilized in a first deposit at a first location in the well a second hydrogel precursor in a dry form immobilized in a second deposit at a second location in the well water or an aqueous solution and an applicator. A method of a use of and a composition for treating a patient by application of a hydrogel bandage to an eye comprising providing a first hydrogel precursor in a dry form immobilized in a first deposit at a first location mixing the deposit to form a mixture and transferring a volume of the mixture to the eye with the mixture forming a crosslinked hydrogel.

A method of treating a de epithelialized zone on a corneal surface of an eye and having a depth of about 10 to about 200 m comprising applying a volume of a flowable aqueous solution of a hydrogel precursor in the zone on the eye and filling the zone without spreading the solution substantially outside the zone to keep the solution substantially only within the zone with the precursor spontaneously crosslinking to form a covalently crosslinked hydrolytically degradable hydrogel that fills the de epithelialized zone without extending substantially outside the zone and that has a height that is not more than about 200 m above eye tissue adjacent to the de epithelialized zone.

A composition and or use of a hydrogel for treating a de epithelialized zone on a corneal surface of an eye having a depth of about 10 to about 200 m comprising applying a volume of a flowable aqueous solution of a hydrogel precursor in the zone on the eye that fills the zone without spreading the solution substantially outside the zone to keep the solution substantially only within the zone with the precursor spontaneously crosslinking to form a covalently crosslinked hydrolytically degradable hydrogel that fills the de epithelialized zone while remaining substantially only within the zone and that has a height that is not more than about 200 m above eye tissue adjacent to the de epithelialized zone.

A kit system and or process for treating a zone on a corneal surface of an eye and having a depth of about 10 to about 200 m comprising a volume of a flowable aqueous solution of hydrogel precursors that has a pH of between about 6 and about 8 with the precursors spontaneously crosslinking to form a covalently crosslinked hydrolytically degradable hydrogel that has a solids content of between about 3 and about 15 w w wherein the hydrogel is fully degraded in vitro in aqueous physiological saline within no more than about 10 days after initial formation wherein the precursors comprise a first precursor that comprises a succinimidyl ester functional group and a second precursor that comprises a second functional group with the succinimidyl ester functional group and the second functional group reacting with each other to form covalent bonds to thereby form the covalently crosslinked hydrogel within about 10 to about 100 seconds of bringing the first and second precursors together in the solution with one of the precursors comprising a hydrophilic polymer with a molecular weight of at least about 3 000 and the other precursor having a molecular weight of less than about 1 000 wherein over a predetermined period of about 1 or 2 or 3 or 4 days beginning at formation of the hydrogel disappearance of the hydrogel on a surface of an eye progresses from outer edges of the hydrogel to the center of the hydrogel with remaining persistent portions of the hydrogel blocking migration of epithelial cells. May include an applicator comprising a delivery surface sized to pick up no more than about 1 to about 100 l of the volume and transfer the solution to a surface of an eye.

A method of a use of and a composition for reducing pain following photorefractive keratectomy that creates a de epithelialized zone on a corneal surface comprising applying a volume of a flowable aqueous solution of a hydrogel precursor in the zone on the eye and filling the zone without spreading the solution substantially outside the zone to keep the solution substantially only within the zone with the precursor spontaneously crosslinking to form a covalently crosslinked hydrolytically degradable hydrogel that fills the de epithelialized zone without extending substantially outside the zone and that has a height that is not more than about 200 m above eye tissue adjacent to the de epithelialized zone with the hydrogel providing for re epithelialization of the cornea in a period of days that is no more than a period of days for a eye that undergoes the same treatment but does not receive the hydrogel.

A kit of medical hydrogel components in a single housing that comprises a tray comprising a well a first hydrogel precursor in a dry form immobilized in a first deposit at a first location in the well a second hydrogel precursor in a dry form immobilized in a second deposit at a second location in the well water or an aqueous solution in a dropper a mixing rod and an applicator comprising a delivery surface sized to hold a volume of no more than about 100 l of a liquid volume and proportioned for manual transfer of the volume to a surface of an eye wherein the first precursor comprises first functional groups and the second precursor comprises second functional groups with the first and the second functional groups chemically reacting with each other to form covalent bonds to thereby crosslink the precursors into a hydrogel.

A method of a use of and a composition for treating a patient by application of a hydrogel bandage to a cornea comprising providing a first hydrogel precursor in a dry form immobilized in a first deposit at a first location in a well providing a second hydrogel precursor in a dry form immobilized in a second deposit at a second location in the well adding less than 1000 l of aqueous solution to one or more of the deposits mixing the deposits together with a mixing rod to form a mixture introducing a delivery surface to the mixture and recovering a volume between about 1 and about 100 l of the mixture transferring at between 1 and 100 l of the volume from the delivery surface to the cornea with the mixture forming a covalently crosslinked hydrogel on the cornea.

A kit and or a method of treating a de epithelialized zone on a corneal surface of an eye comprising applying a first masking layer comprising a degradable material to the zone on the eye with a plurality of tie point locations in the zone being free of contact with the first layer applying a volume of a flowable aqueous solution of a hydrogel precursor over the first layer with the precursor spontaneously crosslinking to form a covalently crosslinked hydrolytically degradable hydrogel to thereby form a second layer that contacts the first layer and adheres to the zone at the plurality of tie point locations. A coating for an eye the coating comprising a first masking layer on the eye and a second layer at least partially covering the masking layer with the masking layer comprising a plurality of openings that are filled by the second layer which contacts the eye at the openings wherein the masking layer degrades more rapidly than the second layer. The kit coating and or method wherein the first masking layer is a covalently crosslinked hydrogel adherent to the zone wherein the first layer and the second layer are hydrolytically degradable and with the first layer being degradable more quickly than the second layer. The kit coating and or method wherein the first layer is applied as an aqueous solution that comprises a hydrogel precursor that is covalently crosslinked to form at least a part of the hydrogel of the first layer. The kit coating and or method wherein the first layer is a covalently crosslinked hydrogel formed prior to application to the zone with the first layer comprising a plurality of openings that provide the tie point locations. The kit coating and or method wherein the first and or second layer further comprises a visualization agent for visualizing one or more of the layers. A pre formed masking layer comprising a plurality of openings with the openings providing tiepoints for a subsequently applied overlayer that is adherent to the eye a kit comprising the pre formed layer and materials for the second layer and applicators with instructions. The pre formed layer may comprise a covalently crosslinked hydrogel or other hydrogel including xerogels. The first masking layer may comprise a solid material formed prior to application to the zone with the first layer further comprising a plurality of openings that provide the tie point locations. For example the solid material may comprises PEG pure PEG a PEG copolymer a polysaccharide a protein or a combination thereof.

Materials and Methods as above wherein the hydrogel is fully degraded on the surface within less than about 10 days. Further embodiments provide that over a period of about 2 days beginning at the application of the hydrogel disappearance of the hydrogel progresses from outer edges of the zone to the center of the zone with migrating epithelial cells being continuously adjacent the hydrogel without being substantially under the hydrogel. The methods and compositions may further comprise creating a de epithelialized zone by surgically removing tissue from the surface of the eye e.g. by laser PRK or mechanical means. The volume may be predetermined and chosen to be between 1 and 100 l with precursor solutions being manually spread with an applicator to achieve coverage of the desired area e.g. a de epithelialized zone without extension of the solution and the resultantly formed hydrogel substantially outside of the zone. The solution placed on the eye with the precursors may be provided with a pH of between about 6 and about 8. A first precursor may comprise a first functional group and the precursor solution may further comprise a second precursor with a second functional group with the first functional group and the second functional group reacting with each other to form covalent bonds to thereby form the covalently crosslinked hydrogel. Embodiments include such materials or methods wherein the first precursor may comprise polyethylene glycol and the first functional group or the second functional group may comprise a succinimidyl ester e.g. SS or SG. The hydrogel embodiments include hydrogels with a solids content of between about 3 and about 15 w w. A precursor solution may be made that further comprises a visualization agent that before application to the eye is visible without a machine aid to a user applying the solution. The visualization agent may be placed in one or more depots of precursors. An applicator may be provided with a first and second end with the mixing rod forming the first end and the delivery surface being on the second end. A therapeutic agent may be delivered from a hydrogel.

Various embodiments have been described that exemplify the invention. These embodiments have features that in general may be mixed and matched as needed.

