---

title: Apparatuses, methods and systems for game mechanics for gifting
abstract: The APPARATUSES, METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR GAME MECHANICS FOR GIFTING (“GGM”) transform social graph, interactions, behavior and characteristics data inputs via various GGM components to create optimal gift-giving dynamics. In one embodiment, the GGM may receive a request to provide a gaming resource to a user. In response to the request, the GGM may aggregate and analyze interaction data to identify a provider with prior interactions with the user. The GGM may in turn request the provider for a gaming resource. The GGM may receive may receive an indication to provide a gaming resource to the user in response to the request and may facilitate providing of a gaming resource to the user. The GGM may identify this indication as an instance of interaction and may update the user interaction data accordingly.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08147328&OS=08147328&RS=08147328
owner: Zynga, Inc.
number: 08147328
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100930
---
Applicant hereby claims priority under 35 USC 119 for U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 277 979 filed Sep. 30 2009 entitled GIFTING GAME MECHANIC FOR ONLINE GAMES. 

For additional teachings of various uses of social graphs see U.S. provisional patent application Ser. No. 61 179 345 filed May 19 2009 entitled DIRECT EMBEDDING OF GAMES INTO THIRD PARTY WEBSITES and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 778 956 filed May 12 2010 entitled EMBEDDING OF GAMES INTO THIRD PARTY WEBSITES. 

The entire contents of the aforementioned applications are herein expressly incorporated by reference.

This patent document disclosure contains material that is subject to copyright mask work and or other intellectual property protection. The respective owners of such intellectual property have no objection to the facsimile reproduction of the patent document disclosure by anyone as it appears in published Patent Office file records but otherwise reserve all rights.

The present invention is directed generally to an apparatuses methods and systems of optimizing gift giving dynamics and more particularly to APPARATUSES METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR GAME MECHANICS FOR GIFTING.

Online gaming systems allow user to play games with other users using suitable networked user devices computers consoles etc. . Some online games have a small number of players at a time such as chess or bridge while others such as massively multiplayer online MMO games have thousands of users participating at once. Examples of user devices include general purpose computers XBOX Live consoles iPhones cell phones etc. Examples of MMO games include the World of Warcraft MMO WoW the Second Life MMO Zynga s Mafia Wars etc.

The APPARATUSES METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR GAME MECHANICS FOR GIFTING hereinafter GGM transform social graph interactions behavior and characteristics data inputs via various GGM components to create optimal gift giving dynamics.

In one embodiment the GGM may process a request to provide a gaming resource to a user by aggregating user interaction data. The GGM may analyze the aggregated user interaction data in order to identify a provider who may have had prior interactions with the user. The GGM may then transmit the received request for a gaming resource to the identified provider. The identified provider may in one embodiment provide a gaming resource to the user.

The leading number of each reference number within the drawings indicates the figure in which that reference number is introduced and or detailed. As such a detailed discussion of reference number would be found and or introduced in . Reference number is introduced in etc.

This disclosure details the implementation of APPARATUSES METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR GIFTING GAME MECHANICS hereinafter GIFTING GAME MECHANICS . Online game platforms allow users to play online games with their friends. Operators of such online games may seek to retain and expand their user base in an effort to maximize their revenues. Embodiments of GGM may facilitate expansion of game user base by leveraging users social graph.

In one embodiment social graph information may describe a user s relationship with others. For example user Alice may be a friend of user Bob implying that Alice and Bob have some type of relationship. In one implementation the relationship can be explicit such as a relationship stored in a social network database that links Alice s user record to Bob s user record e.g. Social Graph table . For example Alice and Bob may be listed as friends in a social network database because one or both of them set up an explicit connection. In another implementation the relationship may be implicit in that the GGM may determine based on data available to it e.g. data regarding interactions stored in Interactions table that a relationship exists between Alice and Bob that can be deemed a friend relationship. For example the GGM may include logic to track which users play together note repeat linkages and infer a friend relationship therefrom. For example if Bob ad Carol play online game G at least once a day together for five seven or any other suitable threshold days the online game logic might record the existence of a presumed friend relationship between Bob and Carol even if there is no explicitly expressed relationship. In another embodiment determining friend relationships might involve a plurality of social graphs. For example friends could be identified by relationships in a social graph set up by a company operating a social networking site and or social graphs set up by an online game company. In one embodiment social graphs can be multiple levels e.g. there are friends of friends and in some contexts friends of friends are treated as friends and that itself could be recursive . In one embodiment social graphs may be unidirectional or bidirectional and different types of links may optionally be given different weights e.g. explicit links may be given a weight of W implicit links may be given a weight of W 2 and mutual links may be given a weight of 2W .

In addition to leveraging users social graph information embodiments of the GGM may facilitate engagement of new users increase in revenue and enhancement of gaming experience for many users.

Online games have a variety of virtual items that may be purchased using virtual currency and or obtained from in game activities e.g. farming doing jobs or activities . In one embodiment these virtual items may provide special abilities to the user in the game. Allowing low level characters easy access to those items may distort game play. For example if all starting players can get a sword of instant death at the start game play may be so distorted as to reduce engagement in the game. In one embodiment the GGM may limit transfer of virtual items e.g. bind virtual items to a particular account bind to a particular character bind on pickup bind on use equip etc. and or level restrict items in an effort to check distortion. In another embodiment the GGM may provide a controlled mechanism for providing a user an item they would otherwise not have access to from another player increasing engagement of both the gift provider and the gift receiver in the online game.

At the Gaming Server no may request social graph data from Social Networking Server e.g. Facebook MySpace and or the like . In one implementation Gaming Server no may use an application programming interface API to request social graph data from Social Networking Server and may receive the requested social graph data in response. In an alternate implementation social graph data that may have been previously received e.g. when the user signed up to play the game during a periodic update and or the like and stored in the Social Graph table may be retrieved e.g. using one or more SQL statements . At Gaming Server may query User Record table and receive in response to the query user data records associated with the user s UID. At Gaming Server no may query Game table and receive in response to the query game records associated with the user and the potential providers UID. In one implementation queries may be constructed using SQL statements.

The retrieved social graph data may be analyzed at by interaction analysis component IAC to identify potential resource providers. For example in one implementation the social graph data of the user may be inspected to identify higher level players or players having a stronger in game characteristic who can assist by purchasing a gift for the user.

The retrieved game records including game related details statistics and the retrieved user records including user data may be analyzed by engagement analysis component and or distortion analysis component . The engagement analysis component may in one embodiment be configured to calculate engagement level of the user. In one embodiment distortion analysis component may be configured to calculate in game distortion that may be caused by gifting mechanics user behavior and or the like. The determined interactions engagement and or distortion may be associated with their UID and may be stored in the Game table . In one embodiment based on the engagement distortion and or interactions analysis performed on the potential providers a resource provider and or resource likely to increase engagement and minimize distortion may be selected. The resource may then be provided to the user s account in the gaming environment. Reward processing component may in one embodiment analyze game data and determine a reward for providing a resource to other users.

In a logic flow diagram is shown illustrating an implementation of the distortion analysis component. At a request to perform a distortion analysis on an event may be received. Examples of an event may include a periodic system defined trigger e.g. perform distortion analysis every week a user achieving a milestone e.g. a user receiving 3 gifts in a day a user request for gift a user request to send gift etc. In one implementation the request may be system generated to periodically assess distortion levels caused by introduction of new and or test resources items gifts rules etc in a gaming or simulated gaming environment. At event details such as resource ID resource requester UID resource receiver or provider UID and or the like may be received. User and or game tables and or databases may be accessed at to retrieve relevant information such as the provider and or the receiver s in game characteristics and corresponding values. Examples of in game characteristics may include game level money wins and or losses and or the like. At optimum range of values and or limits for the in game characteristics may be determined. In one implementation the determination may be based on analyzing peer average values for the in game characteristics. In another implementation the optimum range of values for the in game characteristics may be arbitrarily defined to encourage certain user behaviors. In yet another implementation the optimum values may be based on system defined progress rate which may be retrieved from Rules table. A valuation of the requester s assets resources achievements etc may be performed to determine provider and or receiver s user value UV at . A comparison between the UV and the range of the optimum values may be made at . If the UV is outside of the range defined by the optimum values a high level of distortion may be associated with the event at . In case of a high level of distortion the event may be dynamically modified at to minimize distortion. For example if the event was a request for 3 shovels and it was determined that 3 shovels could result in high distortion the distortion analysis component may modify the request and allow 2 shovels to be provided in order to manage distortion. In one implementation a feedback may connect modify event to determine the provider and or receiver s modified UV at . Subsequent to the determination at a further determination at to ascertain whether the modified UV is within the optimum range may be made. The modification and feedback may continue until the UV value is within the optimum range. In one implementation instead of modifying the event the distortion analysis component may cancel the event or suggest another event. On the other hand if the UV is within the limits of the optimum value range a low level of distortion may be attributed to the event at which may be subsequently approved at .

In one embodiment distortion may be desirable effect. For example distortion may be deliberately introduced to game gifting dynamics. In one implementation for example a user of a high value may get his or event approved even if the level of distortion caused by the event is outside of the range of the optimum values. In one implementation the value of a user may be a measure of spending power strength of social network and or interaction and or the like.

In an exemplary graphical representation of distortion in a gaming environment is shown. In one implementation distortion may be modeled as a measure of a user s performance relative to that of his or her peer group. Examples of measurable performance in a gaming environment may include number of actions e.g. jobs clicks etc per level or stage number of wins and or losses per level or stage rate of level jump etc. In the particular implementation of the number of clicks per game level is selected as a measurable performance. The number of clicks per level is tracked for both the user and his or her peer group which may include members of the gaming network and or a social network. As shown in when the number of clicks the user needs to move to the next level is much lower than that needed by his or her peers an instance of game distortion is identified.

In the particular embodiment illustrated in a user s behavior and or characteristics are monitored and or tracked at . In another implementation the user s interactions may also be tracked and or monitored. At the tracked user behavior and or characteristics data may be compared with one or more pre defined and or optimized thresholds to determine if the user s behavior and or characteristics are acceptable. In one implementation for example the user s engagement level may be compared to an optimized engagement level threshold to determine if the user engagement is acceptable or if incentives may be provided to improve the user s engagement. At the determination may indicate that the user s behavior and or characteristics are acceptable and therefore the user does not qualify to receive a gift. In one implementation the dynamic gifting component may be configured to allow the user to receive a gift despite having acceptable behavior and or characteristics. In a further implementation such a gift may have a reduced value and or may be coupled with usage restrictions.

If the result of the comparison at indicates that the user s behavior and or characteristics are not acceptable the social graph data may be retrieved at . In one implementation social graph data associated with the user may be retrieved for analysis from the Social Graph database . In another implementation social graph data may be retrieved by sending a request to a third party social network such as Facebook MySpace and or the like e.g. using a callback URL that includes the UID of the user or using the social network s API . At the retrieved social graph data may be analyzed to identify potential resource providers. For example the user s social graph data may be analyzed to identify other users with whom the user may have a relationship with and hence are more likely to provide a resource to the user. In one implementation proximity weights based on the type of relationship between the user and other users may be used in the analysis to identify potential providers. At the potential providers prior interaction data may be retrieved for analysis. In one implementation interaction data association with the potential providers may be retrieved for analysis from the Interactions database . The retrieved prior interaction data may be analyzed at to identify a list of providers who are likely to assist the user. For example if a provider has previously engaged in providing resources to other users the provider may be more likely to engage again. In one implementation volume and or frequency of in game inter game and or social interactions between a provider and the user may be compared to established thresholds to identify providers who may be likely to assist the user.

At for each identified provider who may be likely to assist the user a determination whether the provider passes qualifications rules may be made at . In one embodiment the qualification rules may be logic rules provided to prevent and or manage distortion of the game mechanics by limiting and or hindering the ability of providers to heavily influence other users or bestow unfair advantages to select users. In one embodiment the qualifications rules may include may assist in ascertaining if a provider has engaged in more than a threshold number of gifting in a given session. For example if a provider has already assisted seven users in a two hour session and the user is one of the seven users the qualification rules may fail the provider and prevent further participation for a duration of time. In another embodiment the qualification rules may be devised to encourage new interactions. For example if a provider has assisted more seven users in a two hour session and five of the seven users are new interactions the provider may pass the qualification rules and be qualified to provide a gift to the user.

If a provider passes the qualification rules at a message may be communicated to the provider requesting assistance to the user. Messages may be communicated via in game and or inter game communication channels email social network communication channels e.g. message wall post status post etc in Facebook . In one implementation the message may be directly communicated to the provider on behalf of the user. In another implementation the user may be provided an option to select qualified providers to whom a message containing a request for assistance may be sent. The provider after receiving the request for assistance may decide whether to provide or refuse assistance. If the provider s decision at is an agreement to provide assistance an appropriate resource s for gifting may be suggested to the provider. In one implementation an appropriate resource may be dynamically identified and provided to the user. If the provider refuses to assist the user and if more providers are available for assistance qualification process for the next provider may be initiated. Once all the providers identified at have been subjected to the qualification process the dynamic gifting component may proceed to .

A request for reward may be received at . In one embodiment the request may be automatically generated in response to sending a gift to one or more users. In another embodiment the provider may request a reward for gifting resources to other users. A determination of provider eligibility for a reward may be made at . For example in one implementation eligibility for a reward may be based on eligibility criteria. Examples of eligibility criteria may include number of users helped by the provider e.g. number of users helped must be higher than a minimum threshold and or lower than a maximum threshold ratio of number of resources received to number of resources gifted e.g. ratio of less than 1 type of resource provided e.g. provider purchased a resource for gifting provider gifted a free resource provider gifted a resource that may not be available for purchase and or the like. If the provider is eligible under the eligibility criteria receivers of the provider s gifts may be identified at . In one implementation for example receivers associated with the provider may be identified from interactions data stored in Interactions database . In one implementation an SQL query may be constructed to search for interactions associated with the provider e.g. SELECT R ID FROM Interactions WHERE U ID UID of the provider .

Gaming behavior and or characteristics data of the identified receivers may be retrieved from associated databases at e.g. using an SQL query statement . The retrieved data may be used to construct behavioral trends and or patterns which may be analyzed to gauge the impact of the gifts on the receivers gaming and or social behavior and or characteristics. In the particular implementation shown n each receiver s engagement trend may be analyzed at to determine at any improvements in the trend e.g. monotonically increasing engagement trend . If improvements in one or more receivers engagement trends are observed as a result of receiving the gifts the provider may be rewarded for his or her efforts at . In one implementation the reward may be dependent on the amount of improvement observed in one or more of the engagement levels e.g. reward for 15 improvement may be more valuable than reward for 9 improvement . In another implementation the reward may be dynamically adjustable e.g. value of the reward may be known only at the time of use . If on the other hand engagement trend observations indicate little or no improvement in engagement a reward of reduced value or no reward may be given to the provider at .

In one implementation a logic flow similar to that described in may be employed to analyze behavioral patterns e.g. spending rate time between sessions number of sessions per period of time constructed from tracked behavior data. The behavioral patterns may be analyzed to determine behavioral changes or pattern shifts as a result of gifting. For example prior to receiving gifts a receiver s behavior may be characterized as being reliant on jobs to earn cash to make virtual item purchases. After receiving gifts the same receiver s behavior may be characterized as making virtual items purchases using real money and being less reliant on cash from jobs.

Typically users which may be people and or other systems may engage information technology systems e.g. computers to facilitate information processing. In turn computers employ processors to process information such processors may be referred to as central processing units CPU . One form of processor is referred to as a microprocessor. CPUs use communicative circuits to pass binary encoded signals acting as instructions to enable various operations. These instructions may be operational and or data instructions containing and or referencing other instructions and data in various processor accessible and operable areas of memory e.g. registers cache memory random access memory etc. . Such communicative instructions may be stored and or transmitted in batches e.g. batches of instructions as programs and or data components to facilitate desired operations. These stored instruction codes e.g. programs may engage the CPU circuit components and other motherboard and or system components to perform desired operations. One type of program is a computer operating system which may be executed by CPU on a computer the operating system enables and facilitates users to access and operate computer information technology and resources. Some resources that may be employed in information technology systems include input and output mechanisms through which data may pass into and out of a computer memory storage into which data may be saved and processors by which information may be processed. These information technology systems may be used to collect data for later retrieval analysis and manipulation which may be facilitated through a database program. These information technology systems provide interfaces that allow users to access and operate various system components.

In one embodiment the GGM controller may be connected to and or communicate with entities such as but not limited to one or more users from user input devices peripheral devices an optional cryptographic processor device and or a communications network .

Networks are commonly thought to comprise the interconnection and interoperation of clients servers and intermediary nodes in a graph topology. It should be noted that the term server as used throughout this application refers generally to a computer other device program or combination thereof that processes and responds to the requests of remote users across a communications network. Servers serve their information to requesting clients. The term client as used herein refers generally to a computer program other device user and or combination thereof that is capable of processing and making requests and obtaining and processing any responses from servers across a communications network. A computer other device program or combination thereof that facilitates processes information and requests and or furthers the passage of information from a source user to a destination user is commonly referred to as a node. Networks are generally thought to facilitate the transfer of information from source points to destinations. A node specifically tasked with furthering the passage of information from a source to a destination is commonly called a router. There are many forms of networks such as Local Area Networks LANs Pico networks Wide Area Networks WANs Wireless Networks WLANs etc. For example the Internet is generally accepted as being an interconnection of a multitude of networks whereby remote clients and servers may access and interoperate with one another.

The GGM controller may be based on computer systems that may comprise but are not limited to components such as a computer systemization connected to memory .

A computer systemization may comprise a clock central processing unit CPU s and or processor s these terms are used interchangeable throughout the disclosure unless noted to the contrary a memory e.g. a read only memory ROM a random access memory RAM etc. and or an interface bus and most frequently although not necessarily are all interconnected and or communicating through a system bus on one or more mother board s having conductive and or otherwise transportive circuit pathways through which instructions e.g. binary encoded signals may travel to effect communications operations storage etc. Optionally the computer systemization may be connected to an internal power source . Optionally a cryptographic processor may be connected to the system bus. The system clock typically has a crystal oscillator and generates a base signal through the computer systemization s circuit pathways. The clock is typically coupled to the system bus and various clock multipliers that will increase or decrease the base operating frequency for other components interconnected in the computer systemization. The clock and various components in a computer systemization drive signals embodying information throughout the system. Such transmission and reception of instructions embodying information throughout a computer systemization may be commonly referred to as communications. These communicative instructions may further be transmitted received and the cause of return and or reply communications beyond the instant computer systemization to communications networks input devices other computer systemizations peripheral devices and or the like. Of course any of the above components may be connected directly to one another connected to the CPU and or organized in numerous variations employed as exemplified by various computer systems.

The CPU comprises at least one high speed data processor adequate to execute program components for executing user and or system generated requests. Often the processors themselves will incorporate various specialized processing units such as but not limited to integrated system bus controllers memory management control units floating point units and even specialized processing sub units like graphics processing units digital signal processing units and or the like. Additionally processors may include internal fast access addressable memory and be capable of mapping and addressing memory beyond the processor itself internal memory may include but is not limited to fast registers various levels of cache memory e.g. level 1 2 3 etc. RAM etc. The processor may access this memory through the use of a memory address space that is accessible via instruction address which the processor can construct and decode allowing it to access a circuit path to a specific memory address space having a memory state. The CPU may be a microprocessor such as AMD s Athlon Duron and or Opteron ARM s application embedded and secure processors IBM and or Motorola s DragonBall and PowerPC IBM s and Sony s Cell processor Intel s Celeron Core 2 Duo Itanium Pentium Xeon and or XScale and or the like processor s . The CPU interacts with memory through instruction passing through conductive and or transportive conduits e.g. printed electronic and or optic circuits to execute stored instructions i.e. program code according to conventional data processing techniques. Such instruction passing facilitates communication within the GGM controller and beyond through various interfaces. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and or capacity distributed processors e.g. Distributed GGM mainframe multi core parallel and or super computer architectures may similarly be employed. Alternatively should deployment requirements dictate greater portability smaller Personal Digital Assistants PDAs may be employed.

Depending on the particular implementation features of the GGM may be achieved by implementing a microcontroller such as CAST s R8051XC2 microcontroller Intel s MCS 51 i.e. 8051 microcontroller and or the like. Also to implement certain features of the GGM some feature implementations may rely on embedded components such as Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Digital Signal Processing DSP Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA and or the like embedded technology. For example any of the GGM component collection distributed or otherwise and or features may be implemented via the microprocessor and or via embedded components e.g. via ASIC coprocessor DSP FPGA and or the like. Alternately some implementations of the GGM may be implemented with embedded components that are configured and used to achieve a variety of features or signal processing.

Depending on the particular implementation the embedded components may include software solutions hardware solutions and or some combination of both hardware software solutions. For example GGM features discussed herein may be achieved through implementing FPGAs which are a semiconductor devices containing programmable logic components called logic blocks and programmable interconnects such as the high performance FPGA Virtex series and or the low cost Spartan series manufactured by Xilinx. Logic blocks and interconnects can be programmed by the customer or designer after the FPGA is manufactured to implement any of the GGM features. A hierarchy of programmable interconnects allow logic blocks to be interconnected as needed by the GGM system designer administrator somewhat like a one chip programmable breadboard. An FPGA s logic blocks can be programmed to perform the function of basic logic gates such as AND and XOR or more complex combinational functions such as decoders or simple mathematical functions. In most FPGAs the logic blocks also include memory elements which may be simple flip flops or more complete blocks of memory. In some circumstances the GGM may be developed on regular FPGAs and then migrated into a fixed version that more resembles ASIC implementations. Alternate or coordinating implementations may migrate GGM controller features to a final ASIC instead of or in addition to FPGAs. Depending on the implementation all of the aforementioned embedded components and microprocessors may be considered the CPU and or processor for the GGM.

The power source may be of any standard form for powering small electronic circuit board devices such as the following power cells alkaline lithium hydride lithium ion lithium polymer nickel cadmium solar cells and or the like. Other types of AC or DC power sources may be used as well. In the case of solar cells in one embodiment the case provides an aperture through which the solar cell may capture photonic energy. The power cell is connected to at least one of the interconnected subsequent components of the GGM thereby providing an electric current to all subsequent components. In one example the power source is connected to the system bus component . In an alternative embodiment an outside power source is provided through a connection across the I O interface. For example a USB and or IEEE 1394 connection carries both data and power across the connection and is therefore a suitable source of power.

Interface bus ses may accept connect and or communicate to a number of interface adapters conventionally although not necessarily in the form of adapter cards such as but not limited to input output interfaces I O storage interfaces network interfaces and or the like. Optionally cryptographic processor interfaces similarly may be connected to the interface bus. The interface bus provides for the communications of interface adapters with one another as well as with other components of the computer systemization. Interface adapters are adapted for a compatible interface bus. Interface adapters conventionally connect to the interface bus via a slot architecture. Conventional slot architectures may be employed such as but not limited to Accelerated Graphics Port AGP Card Bus Extended Industry Standard Architecture E ISA Micro Channel Architecture MCA NuBus Peripheral Component Interconnect Extended PCI X PCI Express Personal Computer Memory Card International Association PCMCIA and or the like.

Storage interfaces may accept communicate and or connect to a number of storage devices such as but not limited to storage devices removable disc devices and or the like. Storage interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to Ultra Serial Advanced Technology Attachment Packet Interface Ultra Serial ATA PI Enhanced Integrated Drive Electronics E IDE Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 1394 fiber channel Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI Universal Serial Bus USB and or the like.

Network interfaces may accept communicate and or connect to a communications network . Through a communications network the GGM controller is accessible through remote clients e.g. computers with web browsers by users . Network interfaces may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to direct connect Ethernet thick thin twisted pair 10 100 1000 Base T and or the like Token Ring wireless connection such as IEEE 802.11a x and or the like. Should processing requirements dictate a greater amount speed and or capacity distributed network controllers e.g. Distributed GGM architectures may similarly be employed to pool load balance and or otherwise increase the communicative bandwidth required by the GGM controller. A communications network may be any one and or the combination of the following a direct interconnection the Internet a Local Area Network LAN a Metropolitan Area Network MAN an Operating Missions as Nodes on the Internet OMNI a secured custom connection a Wide Area Network WAN a wireless network e.g. employing protocols such as but not limited to a Wireless Application Protocol WAP I mode and or the like and or the like. A network interface may be regarded as a specialized form of an input output interface. Further multiple network interfaces may be used to engage with various communications network types . For example multiple network interfaces may be employed to allow for the communication over broadcast multicast and or unicast networks.

Input Output interfaces I O may accept communicate and or connect to user input devices peripheral devices cryptographic processor devices and or the like. I O may employ connection protocols such as but not limited to audio analog digital monaural RCA stereo and or the like data Apple Desktop Bus ADB IEEE 1394a b serial universal serial bus USB infrared joystick keyboard midi optical PC AT PS 2 parallel radio video interface Apple Desktop Connector ADC BNC coaxial component composite digital Digital Visual Interface DVI high definition multimedia interface HDMI RCA RF antennae S Video VGA and or the like wireless 802.11a b g n x Bluetooth code division multiple access CDMA global system for mobile communications GSM WiMax etc. and or the like. One typical output device may include a video display which typically comprises a Cathode Ray Tube CRT or Liquid Crystal Display LCD based monitor with an interface e.g. DVI circuitry and cable that accepts signals from a video interface may be used. The video interface composites information generated by a computer systemization and generates video signals based on the composited information in a video memory frame. Another output device is a television set which accepts signals from a video interface. Typically the video interface provides the composited video information through a video connection interface that accepts a video display interface e.g. an RCA composite video connector accepting an RCA composite video cable a DVI connector accepting a DVI display cable etc. .

User input devices may be card readers dongles finger print readers gloves graphics tablets joysticks keyboards mouse mice remote controls retina readers trackballs trackpads and or the like.

Peripheral devices may be connected and or communicate to I O and or other facilities of the like such as network interfaces storage interfaces and or the like. Peripheral devices may be audio devices cameras dongles e.g. for copy protection ensuring secure transactions with a digital signature and or the like external processors for added functionality goggles microphones monitors network interfaces printers scanners storage devices video devices video sources visors and or the like.

It should be noted that although user input devices and peripheral devices may be employed the GGM controller may be embodied as an embedded dedicated and or monitor less i.e. headless device wherein access would be provided over a network interface connection.

Cryptographic units such as but not limited to microcontrollers processors interfaces and or devices may be attached and or communicate with the GGM controller. A MC68HC16 microcontroller manufactured by Motorola Inc. may be used for and or within cryptographic units. The MC68HC16 microcontroller utilizes a 16 bit multiply and accumulate instruction in the 16 MHz configuration and requires less than one second to perform a 512 bit RSA private key operation. Cryptographic units support the authentication of communications from interacting agents as well as allowing for anonymous transactions. Cryptographic units may also be configured as part of CPU. Equivalent microcontrollers and or processors may also be used. Other commercially available specialized cryptographic processors include the Broadcom s CryptoNetX and other Security Processors nCipher s nShield SafeNet s Luna PCI e.g. 7100 series Semaphore Communications 40 MHz Roadrunner 184 Sun s Cryptographic Accelerators e.g. Accelerator 6000 PCIe Board Accelerator 500 Daughtercard Via Nano Processor e.g. L2100 L2200 U2400 line which is capable of performing 500 MB s of cryptographic instructions VLSI Technology s 33 MHz 6868 and or the like.

Generally any mechanization and or embodiment allowing a processor to affect the storage and or retrieval of information is regarded as memory . However memory is a fungible technology and resource thus any number of memory embodiments may be employed in lieu of or in concert with one another. It is to be understood that the GGM controller and or a computer systemization may employ various forms of memory . For example a computer systemization may be configured wherein the functionality of on chip CPU memory e.g. registers RAM ROM and any other storage devices are provided by a paper punch tape or paper punch card mechanism of course such an embodiment would result in an extremely slow rate of operation. In a typical configuration memory will include ROM RAM and a storage device . A storage device may be any conventional computer system storage. Storage devices may include a drum a fixed and or removable magnetic disk drive a magneto optical drive an optical drive i.e. Blueray CD ROM RAM Recordable R ReWritable RW DVD R RW HD DVD R RW etc. an array of devices e.g. Redundant Array of Independent Disks RAID solid state memory devices USB memory solid state drives SSD etc. other processor readable storage mediums and or other devices of the like. Thus a computer systemization generally requires and makes use of memory.

The memory may contain a collection of program and or database components and or data such as but not limited to operating system component s operating system information server component s information server user interface component s user interface Web browser component s Web browser database s mail server component s mail client component s cryptographic server component s cryptographic server the GGM component s and or the like i.e. collectively a component collection . These components may be stored and accessed from the storage devices and or from storage devices accessible through an interface bus. Although non conventional program components such as those in the component collection typically are stored in a local storage device they may also be loaded and or stored in memory such as peripheral devices RAM remote storage facilities through a communications network ROM various forms of memory and or the like.

The operating system component is an executable program component facilitating the operation of the GGM controller. Typically the operating system facilitates access of I O network interfaces peripheral devices storage devices and or the like. The operating system may be a highly fault tolerant scalable and secure system such as Apple Macintosh OS X Server AT T Plan 9 Be OS Unix and Unix like system distributions such as AT T s UNIX Berkley Software Distribution BSD variations such as FreeBSD NetBSD OpenBSD and or the like Linux distributions such as Red Hat Ubuntu and or the like and or the like operating systems. However more limited and or less secure operating systems also may be employed such as Apple Macintosh OS IBM OS 2 Microsoft DOS Microsoft Windows 2000 2003 3.1 95 98 CE Millenium NT Vista XP Server Palm OS and or the like. An operating system may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or the like. Most frequently the operating system communicates with other program components user interfaces and or the like. For example the operating system may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses. The operating system once executed by the CPU may enable the interaction with communications networks data I O peripheral devices program components memory user input devices and or the like. The operating system may provide communications protocols that allow the GGM controller to communicate with other entities through a communications network . Various communication protocols may be used by the GGM controller as a subcarrier transport mechanism for interaction such as but not limited to multicast TCP IP UDP unicast and or the like.

An information server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The information server may be a conventional Internet information server such as but not limited to Apache Software Foundation s Apache Microsoft s Internet Information Server and or the like. The information server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as Active Server Page ASP ActiveX ANSI Objective C C and or .NET Common Gateway Interface CGI scripts dynamic D hypertext markup language HTML FLASH Java JavaScript Practical Extraction Report Language PERL Hypertext Pre Processor PHP pipes Python wireless application protocol WAP WebObjects and or the like. The information server may support secure communications protocols such as but not limited to File Transfer Protocol FTP HyperText Transfer Protocol HTTP Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS Secure Socket Layer SSL messaging protocols e.g. America Online AOL Instant Messenger AIM Application Exchange APEX ICQ Internet Relay Chat IRC Microsoft Network MSN Messenger Service Presence and Instant Messaging Protocol PRIM Internet Engineering Task Force s IETF s Session Initiation Protocol SIP SIP for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE open XML based Extensible Messaging and Presence Protocol XMPP i.e. Jabber or Open Mobile Alliance s OMA s Instant Messaging and Presence Service IMPS Yahoo Instant Messenger Service and or the like. The information server provides results in the form of Web pages to Web browsers and allows for the manipulated generation of the Web pages through interaction with other program components. After a Domain Name System DNS resolution portion of an HTTP request is resolved to a particular information server the information server resolves requests for information at specified locations on the GGM controller based on the remainder of the HTTP request. For example a request such as http 123.124.125.126 myInformation.html might have the IP portion of the request 123.124.125.126 resolved by a DNS server to an information server at that IP address that information server might in turn further parse the http request for the myInformation.html portion of the request and resolve it to a location in memory containing the information myInformation.html. Additionally other information serving protocols may be employed across various ports e.g. FTP communications across port 21 and or the like. An information server may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the information server communicates with the GGM database operating systems other program components user interfaces Web browsers and or the like.

Access to the GGM database may be achieved through a number of database bridge mechanisms such as through scripting languages as enumerated below e.g. CGI and through inter application communication channels as enumerated below e.g. CORBA WebObjects etc. . Any data requests through a Web browser are parsed through the bridge mechanism into appropriate grammars as required by the GGM. In one embodiment the information server would provide a Web form accessible by a Web browser. Entries made into supplied fields in the Web form are tagged as having been entered into the particular fields and parsed as such. The entered terms are then passed along with the field tags which act to instruct the parser to generate queries directed to appropriate tables and or fields. In one embodiment the parser may generate queries in standard SQL by instantiating a search string with the proper join select commands based on the tagged text entries wherein the resulting command is provided over the bridge mechanism to the GGM as a query. Upon generating query results from the query the results are passed over the bridge mechanism and may be parsed for formatting and generation of a new results Web page by the bridge mechanism. Such a new results Web page is then provided to the information server which may supply it to the requesting Web browser.

Also an information server may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The function of computer interfaces in some respects is similar to automobile operation interfaces. Automobile operation interface elements such as steering wheels gearshifts and speedometers facilitate the access operation and display of automobile resources functionality and status. Computer interaction interface elements such as check boxes cursors menus scrollers and windows collectively and commonly referred to as widgets similarly facilitate the access operation and display of data and computer hardware and operating system resources functionality and status. Operation interfaces are commonly called user interfaces. Graphical user interfaces GUIs such as the Apple Macintosh Operating System s Aqua IBM s OS 2 Microsoft s Windows 2000 2003 3.1 95 98 CE Millenium NT XP Vista 7 i.e. Aero Unix s X Windows e.g. which may include additional Unix graphic interface libraries and layers such as K Desktop Environment KDE mythTV and GNU Network Object Model Environment GNOME web interface libraries e.g. ActiveX AJAX D HTML FLASH Java JavaScript etc. interface libraries such as but not limited to Dojo jQuery UI MooTools Prototype script.aculo.us SWFObject Yahoo User Interface any of which may be used and provide a baseline and means of accessing and displaying information graphically to users.

A user interface component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The user interface may be a conventional graphic user interface as provided by with and or atop operating systems and or operating environments such as already discussed. The user interface may allow for the display execution interaction manipulation and or operation of program components and or system facilities through textual and or graphical facilities. The user interface provides a facility through which users may affect interact and or operate a computer system. A user interface may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the user interface communicates with operating systems other program components and or the like. The user interface may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

A Web browser component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. The Web browser may be a conventional hypertext viewing application such as Microsoft Internet Explorer or Netscape Navigator. Secure Web browsing may be supplied with 128 bit or greater encryption by way of HTTPS SSL and or the like. Web browsers allowing for the execution of program components through facilities such as ActiveX AJAX D HTML FLASH Java JavaScript web browser plug in APIs e.g. FireFox Safari Plug in and or the like APIs and or the like. Web browsers and like information access tools may be integrated into PDAs cellular telephones and or other mobile devices. A Web browser may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the Web browser communicates with information servers operating systems integrated program components e.g. plug ins and or the like e.g. it may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses. Of course in place of a Web browser and information server a combined application may be developed to perform similar functions of both. The combined application would similarly affect the obtaining and the provision of information to users user agents and or the like from the GGM enabled nodes. The combined application may be nugatory on systems employing standard Web browsers.

A mail server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The mail server may be a conventional Internet mail server such as but not limited to sendmail Microsoft Exchange and or the like. The mail server may allow for the execution of program components through facilities such as ASP ActiveX ANSI Objective C C and or .NET CGI scripts Java JavaScript PERL PHP pipes Python WebObjects and or the like. The mail server may support communications protocols such as but not limited to Internet message access protocol IMAP Messaging Application Programming Interface MAPI Microsoft Exchange post office protocol POP3 simple mail transfer protocol SMTP and or the like. The mail server can route forward and process incoming and outgoing mail messages that have been sent relayed and or otherwise traversing through and or to the GGM.

Access to the GGM mail may be achieved through a number of APIs offered by the individual Web server components and or the operating system.

Also a mail server may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests information and or responses.

A mail client component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU . The mail client may be a conventional mail viewing application such as Apple Mail Microsoft Entourage Microsoft Outlook Microsoft Outlook Express Mozilla Thunderbird and or the like. Mail clients may support a number of transfer protocols such as IMAP Microsoft Exchange POP3 SMTP and or the like. A mail client may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the mail client communicates with mail servers operating systems other mail clients and or the like e.g. it may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests information and or responses. Generally the mail client provides a facility to compose and transmit electronic mail messages.

A cryptographic server component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU cryptographic processor cryptographic processor interface cryptographic processor device and or the like. Cryptographic processor interfaces will allow for expedition of encryption and or decryption requests by the cryptographic component however the cryptographic component alternatively may run on a conventional CPU. The cryptographic component allows for the encryption and or decryption of provided data. The cryptographic component allows for both symmetric and asymmetric e.g. Pretty Good Protection PGP encryption and or decryption. The cryptographic component may employ cryptographic techniques such as but not limited to digital certificates e.g. X.509 authentication framework digital signatures dual signatures enveloping password access protection public key management and or the like. The cryptographic component will facilitate numerous encryption and or decryption security protocols such as but not limited to checksum Data Encryption Standard DES Elliptical Curve Encryption ECC International Data Encryption Algorithm IDEA Message Digest 5 MD5 which is a one way hash function passwords Rivest Cipher RC5 Rijndael RSA which is an Internet encryption and authentication system that uses an algorithm developed in 1977 by Ron Rivest Adi Shamir and Leonard Adleman Secure Hash Algorithm SHA Secure Socket Layer SSL Secure Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTPS and or the like. Employing such encryption security protocols the GGM may encrypt all incoming and or outgoing communications and may serve as node within a virtual private network VPN with a wider communications network. The cryptographic component facilitates the process of security authorization whereby access to a resource is inhibited by a security protocol wherein the cryptographic component effects authorized access to the secured resource. In addition the cryptographic component may provide unique identifiers of content e.g. employing and MD5 hash to obtain a unique signature for an digital audio file. A cryptographic component may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. The cryptographic component supports encryption schemes allowing for the secure transmission of information across a communications network to enable the GGM component to engage in secure transactions if so desired. The cryptographic component facilitates the secure accessing of resources on the GGM and facilitates the access of secured resources on remote systems i.e. it may act as a client and or server of secured resources. Most frequently the cryptographic component communicates with information servers operating systems other program components and or the like. The cryptographic component may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The GGM database component may be embodied in a database and its stored data. The database is a stored program component which is executed by the CPU the stored program component portion configuring the CPU to process the stored data. The database may be a conventional fault tolerant relational scalable secure database such as Oracle or Sybase. Relational databases are an extension of a flat file. Relational databases consist of a series of related tables. The tables are interconnected via a key field. Use of the key field allows the combination of the tables by indexing against the key field i.e. the key fields act as dimensional pivot points for combining information from various tables. Relationships generally identify links maintained between tables by matching primary keys. Primary keys represent fields that uniquely identify the rows of a table in a relational database. More precisely they uniquely identify rows of a table on the one side of a one to many relationship.

Alternatively the GGM database may be implemented using various standard data structures such as an array hash linked list struct structured text file e.g. XML table and or the like. Such data structures may be stored in memory and or in structured files. In another alternative an object oriented database may be used such as Frontier ObjectStore Poet Zope and or the like. Object databases can include a number of object collections that are grouped and or linked together by common attributes they may be related to other object collections by some common attributes. Object oriented databases perform similarly to relational databases with the exception that objects are not just pieces of data but may have other types of functionality encapsulated within a given object. If the GGM database is implemented as a data structure the use of the GGM database may be integrated into another component such as the GGM component . Also the database may be implemented as a mix of data structures objects and relational structures. Databases may be consolidated and or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing techniques. Portions of databases e.g. tables may be exported and or imported and thus decentralized and or integrated.

In one embodiment the database component includes several tables . A User table includes fields such as but not limited to a user UID user name and or the like. The user table may support and or track multiple entity accounts on a GGM. A Social Graph table includes fields such as but not limited to user UID total friend count friend deg1 count friend deg2 count friend deg3 count  game friend count and or the like. A Rules table includes fields such as but not limited to Game ID resource qual rules level value money value wins value loss value and or the like. A Reward table includes fields such as but not limited to reward ID game ID reward and or the like. A Gaming Behavior table includes fields such as but not limited to user ID session freq session length session time between session time spending rate and or the like. A Gaming Characteristics table includes fields such as but not limited to user ID game ID level cash number game members achievements skill points xp points and or the like. An Interactions table includes fields such as but not limited to user ID frequency game gifting frequency inter game gifting number invites number wall post number message and or the like. A Trend table includes fields such as but not limited to engagement trade purchase trend interactions trend game hours trend session frequency trend gifting trend and or the like.

In one embodiment the GGM database may interact with other database systems. For example employing a distributed database system queries and data access by search GGM component may treat the combination of the GGM database an integrated data security layer database as a single database entity.

In one embodiment user programs may contain various user interface primitives which may serve to update the GGM. Also various accounts may require custom database tables depending upon the environments and the types of clients the GGM may need to serve. It should be noted that any unique fields may be designated as a key field throughout. In an alternative embodiment these tables have been decentralized into their own databases and their respective database controllers i.e. individual database controllers for each of the above tables . Employing standard data processing techniques one may further distribute the databases over several computer systemizations and or storage devices. Similarly configurations of the decentralized database controllers may be varied by consolidating and or distributing the various database components . The GGM may be configured to keep track of various settings inputs and parameters via database controllers.

The GGM database may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the GGM database communicates with the GGM component other program components and or the like. The database may contain retain and provide information regarding other nodes and data.

The GGM component is a stored program component that is executed by a CPU. In one embodiment the GGM component incorporates any and or all combinations of the aspects of the GGM that was discussed in the previous figures. As such the GGM affects accessing obtaining and the provision of information services transactions and or the like across various communications networks.

The GGM component may transform social graph interactions behavior and characteristics data inputs via various components into optimized resource transfers and or the like and use of the GGM. In one embodiment the GGM takes inputs e.g. request resource receive social graph data and user data game data and rules and restrictions and or the like and transforms the input via various components e.g. IAC EAC DAC RPC ARRC into outputs e.g. resource gifted resources rewards and or the like .

The GGM component enabling access of information between nodes may be developed by employing standard development tools and languages such as but not limited to Apache components Assembly ActiveX binary executables ANSI Objective C C and or .NET database adapters CGI scripts Java JavaScript mapping tools procedural and object oriented development tools PERL PHP Python shell scripts SQL commands web application server extensions web development environments and libraries e.g. Microsoft s ActiveX Adobe AIR FLEX FLASH AJAX D HTML Dojo Java JavaScript jQuery UI MooTools Prototype script.aculo.us Simple Object Access Protocol SOAP SWFObject Yahoo User Interface and or the like WebObjects and or the like. In one embodiment the GGM server employs a cryptographic server to encrypt and decrypt communications. The GGM component may communicate to and or with other components in a component collection including itself and or facilities of the like. Most frequently the GGM component communicates with the GGM database operating systems other program components and or the like. The GGM may contain communicate generate obtain and or provide program component system user and or data communications requests and or responses.

The structure and or operation of any of the GGM node controller components may be combined consolidated and or distributed in any number of ways to facilitate development and or deployment. Similarly the component collection may be combined in any number of ways to facilitate deployment and or development. To accomplish this one may integrate the components into a common code base or in a facility that can dynamically load the components on demand in an integrated fashion.

The component collection may be consolidated and or distributed in countless variations through standard data processing and or development techniques. Multiple instances of any one of the program components in the program component collection may be instantiated on a single node and or across numerous nodes to improve performance through load balancing and or data processing techniques. Furthermore single instances may also be distributed across multiple controllers and or storage devices e.g. databases. All program component instances and controllers working in concert may do so through standard data processing communication techniques.

The configuration of the GGM controller will depend on the context of system deployment. Factors such as but not limited to the budget capacity location and or use of the underlying hardware resources may affect deployment requirements and configuration. Regardless of if the configuration results in more consolidated and or integrated program components results in a more distributed series of program components and or results in some combination between a consolidated and distributed configuration data may be communicated obtained and or provided. Instances of components consolidated into a common code base from the program component collection may communicate obtain and or provide data. This may be accomplished through intra application data processing communication techniques such as but not limited to data referencing e.g. pointers internal messaging object instance variable communication shared memory space variable passing and or the like.

If component collection components are discrete separate and or external to one another then communicating obtaining and or providing data with and or to other component components may be accomplished through inter application data processing communication techniques such as but not limited to Application Program Interfaces API information passage distributed Component Object Model D COM Distributed Object Linking and Embedding D OLE and or the like Common Object Request Broker Architecture CORBA local and remote application program interfaces Jini Remote Method Invocation RMI SOAP process pipes shared files and or the like. Messages sent between discrete component components for inter application communication or within memory spaces of a singular component for intra application communication may be facilitated through the creation and parsing of a grammar. A grammar may be developed by using standard development tools such as lex yacc XML and or the like which allow for grammar generation and parsing functionality which in turn may form the basis of communication messages within and between components. For example a grammar may be arranged to recognize the tokens of an HTTP post command e.g. 

where Value1 is discerned as being a parameter because http is part of the grammar syntax and what follows is considered part of the post value. Similarly with such a grammar a variable Value1 may be inserted into an http post command and then sent. The grammar syntax itself may be presented as structured data that is interpreted and or otherwise used to generate the parsing mechanism e.g. a syntax description text file as processed by lex yacc etc. . Also once the parsing mechanism is generated and or instantiated it itself may process and or parse structured data such as but not limited to character e.g. tab delineated text HTML structured text streams XML and or the like structured data. In another embodiment inter application data processing protocols themselves may have integrated and or readily available parsers e.g. the SOAP parser that may be employed to parse e.g. communications data. Further the parsing grammar may be used beyond message parsing but may also be used to parse databases data collections data stores structured data and or the like. Again the desired configuration will depend upon the context environment and requirements of system deployment. The following resources may be used to provide example embodiments regarding SOAP parser implementation 

In order to address various issues and advance the art the entirety of this application is directed to APPARATUSES METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR GAME MECHANICS FOR GIFTING. The entirety of this application including the Cover Page Title Headings Field Background Summary Brief Description of the Drawings Detailed Description Claims Abstract Figures Appendices and otherwise shows by way of illustration various embodiments in which the claimed inventions may be practiced. The advantages and features of the application are of a representative sample of embodiments only and are not exhaustive and or exclusive. They are presented only to assist in understanding and teach the claimed principles. It should be understood that they are not representative of all claimed inventions. As such certain aspects of the disclosure have not been discussed herein. That alternate embodiments may not have been presented for a specific portion of the invention or that further undescribed alternate embodiments may be available for a portion is not to be considered a disclaimer of those alternate embodiments. It will be appreciated that many of those undescribed embodiments incorporate the same principles of the invention and others are equivalent. Thus it is to be understood that other embodiments may be utilized and functional logical organizational structural and or topological modifications may be made without departing from the scope and or spirit of the disclosure. As such all examples and or embodiments are deemed to be non limiting throughout this disclosure. Also no inference should be drawn regarding those embodiments discussed herein relative to those not discussed herein other than it is as such for purposes of reducing space and repetition. For instance it is to be understood that the logical and or topological structure of any combination of any program components a component collection other components and or any present feature sets as described in the figures and or throughout are not limited to a fixed operating order and or arrangement but rather any disclosed order is exemplary and all equivalents regardless of order are contemplated by the disclosure. Furthermore it is to be understood that such features are not limited to serial execution but rather any number of threads processes services servers and or the like that may execute asynchronously concurrently in parallel simultaneously synchronously and or the like are contemplated by the disclosure. As such some of these features may be mutually contradictory in that they cannot be simultaneously present in a single embodiment. Similarly some features are applicable to one aspect of the invention and inapplicable to others. In addition the disclosure includes other inventions not presently claimed. Applicant reserves all rights in those presently unclaimed inventions including the right to claim such inventions file additional applications continuations continuations in part divisions and or the like thereof. As such it should be understood that advantages embodiments examples functional features logical organizational structural topological and or other aspects of the disclosure are not to be considered limitations on the disclosure as defined by the claims or limitations on equivalents to the claims. It is to be understood that depending on the particular needs and or characteristics of a GGM individual and or enterprise user database configuration and or relational model data type data transmission and or network framework syntax structure and or the like various embodiments of the GGM may be implemented that enable a great deal of flexibility and customization. For example aspects of the GGM may be adapted for modeling gaming parameters to control user gaming environment interactions. While various embodiments and discussions of the GGM have been directed to facilitating gifting in games however it is to be understood that the embodiments described herein may be readily configured and or customized for a wide variety of other applications and or implementations.

