---

title: Backing up data objects identified by search program and corresponding to search query
abstract: A backup program running on a computing device receives a search query. The backup program transmits the search query to a search program. The backup program receives search results corresponding to the search query from the search program. The search results include a list of data objects stored on a storage device and that satisfy the search query. The backup program backs up one or more selected data objects of the list of data objects. The backup program can periodically and automatically without user interaction retransmit the search query to the search program, and receive updated search results corresponding to the search query from the search program. The updated search results include an updated list of data objects stored on the storage device that satisfy the search query. The backup program can then back up the data objects within the updated list of data objects.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08447735&OS=08447735&RS=08447735
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08447735
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101214
---
Data is the lifeblood of many individual users as well as entities like businesses and governmental organizations. Many people generate data using computing devices in the course of their jobs or their personal lives. Furthermore the computing devices themselves as well as other devices may generate data as well. These and other types of data are typically stored on storage devices like hard disk drives and other types of storage devices.

A method of an embodiment of the invention includes receiving a search query by a backup program running on a computing device. The method includes transmitting the search query by the backup program to a search program. The method includes receiving search results corresponding to the search query by the backup program from the search program. The search results include a list of data objects stored on a storage device and that satisfy the search query. The method includes backing up one or more selected data objects of the list of data objects by the backup program.

A computer readable storage medium of an embodiment of the invention has computer readable code embodied therein. The computer readable code is executable by a processor. The computer readable code includes first computer readable code to receive a search query. The computer readable code includes second computer executable code to transmit the search query to a search program. The computer readable code includes third computer executable code to receive search results corresponding to the search query from the search program. The search results include a list of data objects stored on a storage device and that satisfy the search query. The computer readable code includes fourth computer executable code to back up one or more selected data objects of the list of data objects.

A system of an embodiment of the invention includes a computer readable data storage medium to store a backup program and a processor to execute the backup program from the computer readable data storage medium. The backup program is to receive a search query to transmit the search query to a search program. The backup program is to receive from the search program search results corresponding to and satisfying the search query and that includes a list of data objects stored on a storage device. The backup program is to back up one or more selected data objects of the list of data objects.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the embodiment of the invention is defined only by the appended claims.

As noted in the background section data that is generated by users and devices is stored on storage devices and can be important. However storage devices occasionally fail. As such a backup program may be used to periodically or continuously back up the data to another storage device.

However while some data may be important other data may not be as important and thus does not require backup. Furthermore some data may be more important than other data and therefore require backup more often than less important data. Typically a user is permitted to select which data objects such as which data files are to be backed up and how often these data objects are to be backed up.

However requiring a user to locate the data objects that are to be backed up is a process that is fraught with peril. The user may accidentally forget to back up important data and only discover too late that the data is lost when the storage device it is stored on has failed. Alternatively the user may select data for backup that is not important using up precious backup storage device resources that are better allocated for backing up more important data.

Disclosed herein are approaches that alleviate these problems. A backup program receives a search query such as from a user and transmits the search query to a search program. The backup program receives search results corresponding to the search query from the search program. The search results include a list of data objects stored on a storage device and that satisfy the search query. The backup program backs up one or more selected data objects of the list of data objects.

In this way an existing search program can be leveraged by a backup program to assist the user in locating the data objects that are to be backed up. A user can more naturally specify the data objects that are to be backed up by specifying a search query that can relate to important subject matter such that data objects that satisfy this search query are backed up. As such the user is less likely to forget to back up important data objects because the search program will locate the data objects that satisfy the specified search query. The user thus has an alternative to specifying data objects for backup that may not be as important insofar as these data objects do not satisfy the search query.

The backup program is able to back up data objects stored on a storage device such as a hard disk drive or another type of storage device to another storage device. The storage device on which the data objects are initially stored may be plural storage devices. The storage device may be part of the computing device on which the backup program is running or a storage device that is otherwise accessible by the backup program. A data object can include one or more of the following a file of data an email message a web page an instant message a contact entry a calendar entry a task entry a note entry and a journal entry.

A file of data is a file that is stored on a filesystem of the storage device and that contains data. An email message is received by or generated using an email messaging program like a personal information management PIM program running on the computing device and which is stored on the storage device. A web page is stored on the storage device as well and may be generated using a web browsing program running on the computing device. Similarly an instant message is stored on the storage device and may be generating using an instant message program running on the computer device. Contact entries calendar entries task entries note entries and journal entries are likewise stored on the storage device and may be generating by a computer program running on the computing device such as a PIM program.

The backup program presents a user interface to the user to enter a search query . The search query relates to the data objects that the user wants to back up. For instance the user may enter words to be searched for within content of the data objects stored on the storage device. The content of a data object is the actual data of the data object. For example in relation to a word processing data file the content of this data object includes the actual characters that were entered by a user and saved as part of the data file.

The user may further or alternatively enter words to be searched for within metadata of the data objects stored on the storage device. Such metadata can include the title of a data file for instance. The user may also be permitted to enter properties to be searched for within this metadata. An example of such a property is data object type such as data file type which can include .TXT files .DOC files and so on. Another example of such a property is the location at which a data object is stored on the storage device. For instance for a data file the location may be specifies as a path like drive folder1 folder2 where drive identifies a logical volume on the storage device where folder1 and folder2 specify folders or directories within this logical volume and where folder2 is located within folder1.

Referring back to the backup program thus receives the search query as entered by the user . The backup program transmits the search query to a search program . For example the search program may expose an application programming interface API that the backup program can call where the search query is a parameter when calling the search program. Responsive to receiving the search query the search program searches for data objects stored on the storage device that satisfy the search query transmitted by the backup program.

The backup program therefore receives search results corresponding to the search query from the search program . The search results include a list of data objects that satisfy the search query. The search results can also include metadata regarding the data objects such as but not limited to the metadata that has been described above. The backup program may process the list of data objects based on this metadata . For example the backup program may perform searching or matching based on this metadata to further pare down the search results received.

The backup program may further sort the list of data objects in accordance with a predetermined order . For instance the user may be permitted when entering the search query in part to specify the predetermined order in which the list of data objects is sorted. One example of a predetermined order includes the dates when the data objects were generated or last updated such that more recently updated or generated data objects are located at the top of the list. Another example of a predetermined order includes the relevancy of the data objects to the search query such that more relevant data objects are located at the top of the list.

The backup program may present the list of data objects to the user as may have been sorted in part such as by displaying the data objects in a list on a display device of the computing device. The backup program may present a user interface to the user to permit the user to select selected data objects from the list of data objects . The selected data objects are those data objects that the backup program will actually back up. By default all the data objects within the list of data objects may be preselected and the user provided an opportunity to deselect or reselect data objects as desired.

Referring back to the backup program thus can receive the user s selection of the selected data objects from the user . The backup program then backs up the selected data objects such as to a different storage device than the storage device on which the selected data objects were initially located. It is noted that in another embodiment one or more of the parts may not be performed. For instance the list of data objects may not be processed and or sorted. Additionally or alternatively the user may not be provided with an opportunity to select the selected data objects from the list of data objects. In this latter embodiment all the data objects within the list are therefore presumed to be selected data objects that are backed up and after the user has entered the search query no further user interaction is required.

Furthermore in one embodiment the backup program may periodically and automatically retransmit the search query to the search engine without user interaction. For example in part the user may have the option to specify that the search query should be periodically and automatically retransmitted to the search engine. As such once the user selects this option the retransmission of the search query by the backup program does not require any additional user interaction.

In response the backup program receives updated search results corresponding to the search query from the search program . As in part the updated search results include an updated list of data objects that satisfy the search query. Any of these data objects within the updated list that were newly generated or updated since the last time the search query was transmitted to the search program are automatically updated by the backup program .

As an example of the performance of parts the user may initially have specified a search query as special project ABCD1234 where ABCD1234 is the project identifier of a special project on which the user is working. As such any time the user generates a new data object regarding this special project or updates an existing data object regarding this special project the data object in question will be automatically backed up the next time the backup program retransmits the search query to the search program. This is because the search program will have located the data object and will have returned the identity of the data object in the updated list of data objects that satisfy the search query. Therefore the user can rest assured that newly updated or generated data objects related to the special project will be backed up even without the user having to manually specify such data objects for backup.

The computer readable data storage medium may be a hard disk drive a semiconductor memory or another type of computer readable data storage medium. The computer readable data storage medium may in one embodiment be or coincide with the storage device . The computer readable data storage medium stores a backup program and a search program . By comparison the storage device may be or include one or more hard disk drives and or other types of storage devices. The storage device stores data objects .

The backup program is executed by the processor to perform the method of that has been described. As such the backup program permits a user to specify the data objects that are to be backed up via a search query such that the user does not have to manually specify each data object to be backed up. The search program is also executed by the processor . The search program typically runs in the background while a user is performing other tasks on the system and indexes data objects as they are generated or updated so that searching the data objects pursuant to search queries like those transmitted by the backup program can be achieved quickly.

The primary functionality of the search program may be for locating data objects via a user him or herself entering search queries using the search program directly. That is the primary functionality of the search program in this embodiment is not for locating data objects to backup in communication with the backup program . Rather in such an embodiment the functionality exposed by the search program such as via an API for utilization of the search program by computer programs like the backup program is ancillary to the primary functionality of the search program . It is noted therefore that the backup program itself does not perform any part of the searching for data objects other than to submit a search query to the search program . Rather the entirety of the search process is performed by the search program upon the search program receiving a search query.

Finally it is noted that as can be appreciated by one those of ordinary skill within the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the embodiments of the invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device. Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

In general a computer program product includes a computer readable medium on which one or more computer programs are stored. Execution of the computer programs from the computer readable medium by one or more processors of one or more hardware devices causes a method to be performed. For instance the method that is to be performed may be one or more of the methods that have been described above.

The computer programs themselves include computer program code. Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention have been described above with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The flowchart and block diagrams in the figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

It is finally noted that although specific embodiments have been illustrated and described herein it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that any arrangement calculated to achieve the same purpose may be substituted for the specific embodiments shown. This application is thus intended to cover any adaptations or variations of embodiments of the present invention. As such and therefore it is manifestly intended that this invention be limited only by the claims and equivalents thereof.

