---

title: Methods and apparatus to analyze computed tomography scan data
abstract: Methods and apparatus to analyze healthcare images are disclosed. An example method includes performing a threshold procedure and a watershed procedure on data obtained via a scan of a brain to generate a plurality of segments based on blood volumes associated with the segments; generating one or more statistics related to the each of the segments; and integrating the statistics into image data associated with the scan such that a first one of the statistics corresponding a first one of the segments is to be displayed to a user of the image data in response to receiving an input from the user in connection with the first one of the segments.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08467585&OS=08467585&RS=08467585
owner: Genenal Electric Company
number: 08467585
owner_city: Schnectady
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101222
---
This application claims the benefit of priority of Indian Patent Application No. 3328 CHE 2010 filed on Nov. 9 2010 which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This disclosure relates generally to healthcare systems and more particularly to methods and apparatus to analyze healthcare images.

Healthcare environments such as hospitals and clinics typically include information systems e.g. hospital information systems HIS radiology information systems RIS storage systems picture archiving and communication systems PACS etc. to manage clinical information such as for example patient medical histories imaging data test results diagnosis information management information and or scheduling information. The information may be centrally stored or divided at a plurality of locations. Healthcare practitioners may desire to access patient information or other information at various points in a healthcare workflow. For example during surgery medical personnel may access patient information such as images of a patient s anatomy which are stored in a medical information system. Alternatively medical personnel may enter new information such as history diagnostic or treatment information into a medical information system during an ongoing medical procedure.

Medical practitioners such as doctors surgeons and other medical professionals rely on the clinical information stored in such systems to assess the condition of a patient to provide immediate treatment to a patient in an emergency situation to diagnose a patient and or to provide any other medical treatment or attention.

An example computer implemented method includes performing a threshold procedure and a watershed procedure on data obtained via a scan of a brain to generate a plurality of segments based on blood volumes associated with the segments generating one or more statistics related to the each of the segments and integrating the statistics into image data associated with the scan such that a first one of the statistics corresponding a first one of the segments is to be displayed to a user of the image data in response to receiving an input from the user in connection with the first one of the segments.

An example tangible computer readable medium has instructions stored thereon that when executed causes a machine to perform a threshold procedure and a watershed procedure on data obtained via a scan of a brain to generate a plurality of segments based on blood volumes associated with the segments generate one or more statistics related to the each of the segments and integrate the statistics into image data associated with the scan such that a first one of the statistics corresponding a first one of the segments is to be displayed to a user of the image data in response to receiving an input from the user in connection with the first one of the segments.

An example apparatus includes an image segmentation module to partition image data associated with a healthcare image into a plurality of segments based on a plurality of blood volume values and an integrator to associate a plurality of statistic sets related to the blood volume values with each of the segments in the image data such that a first one of the statistic sets is to be displayed as an overlay on a presentation of the healthcare image in response to detecting an event associated with a cursor located at a first one of the segments corresponding to the first statistic set.

Although the following discloses example methods apparatus systems and articles of manufacture including among other components firmware and or software executed on hardware it should be noted that such methods apparatus and systems are merely illustrative and should not be considered as limiting. For example it is contemplated that any or all of these firmware hardware and or software components could be embodied exclusively in hardware exclusively in software exclusively in firmware or in any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Accordingly while the following describes example methods apparatus systems and or articles of manufacture the examples provided are not the only way s to implement such methods apparatus systems and or articles of manufacture.

Generally a hematoma located in a human brain is a critical life threatening condition that requires immediate attention and care. The speed at which a brain hematoma is diagnosed often dictates how effectively the hematoma can be treated. That is successful treatment of a brain hematoma depends greatly on a rapid identification of the hematoma and the characteristics or extent thereof. However conventional hematoma screening systems involve manually segmenting potential hematomas on an image obtained via for example a non contrast computed tomography CT scan. While potential hematomas may be visible on such an image to a healthcare practitioner or technician characteristics or an extent of the potential hematoma is currently obtained via the time consuming task of manually segmenting the potential hematoma. Furthermore the manual segmentation of the potential hematoma is subject to human error that in such critical situations can have fatal consequences.

The example methods apparatus systems and or articles of manufacture disclosed herein provide advantages over existing hematoma screening or analysis systems. In particular the example methods apparatus systems and or articles of manufacture described herein automatically analyze scan information to calculate data indicative of a location of a hematoma and data indicative of characteristics of the hematoma. Additionally the example methods apparatus systems and or articles of manufacture described herein automatically integrate the calculated characteristics of the hematoma into image data associated with the scan. The integration of the calculated characteristics described herein enables a display of information indicative of an extent of the hematoma on a presentation of the image data. For example the characteristics of the hematoma may be displayed in an overlay graphic on the presentation of the image data in response to an input e.g. a click of a mouse button or a cursor rollover event received from a user in connection with a region or segment of the image corresponding to the characteristics. Additional aspects features and advantages of the example methods apparatus systems and or articles of manufacture described herein will be apparent from the following disclosure.

In the interest of brevity and clarity throughout the following disclosure references will be made to an example clinical records server . However the methods apparatus systems and or articles of manufacture described herein may be implemented by and or within any number and or type s of additional and or alternative clinical records systems servers and or client devices. Such additional and or alternative systems servers and or client devices may be communicatively coupled via any number and or type s of public and or private networks and or may be located and or implemented at any number and or type s of different geographically locations. Further any of the methods apparatus and articles of manufacture described herein could be implemented by or within a clinical records access terminal and or client device that is communicatively coupled to the example clinical records server . Further still presentations screens and or user interfaces generated by an example image analyzer which is described in detail below may be presented at the clinical records server and or at a clinic records access terminal and or client device communicatively coupled to the server . Moreover the example image analyzer may be implemented at any number and or type s of clinical records access terminals and or client devices communicatively coupled to a clinical records server such as the example clinical records server .

To manage patient and or clinical records the example clinical records server of includes a clinical records manager . The example clinical records manager of enables users via the operating system the input device s and or the display s and or output device s to query and or search for clinical records in the clinical records database . The example clinical records manager also enables users via the operating system the input device s the display s and or output device s to add create and or modify clinical records in the database . In some examples clinical records access terminals and or client devices can access the clinical records database via a clinical records interface or application programming interface and the clinical records manager and via any number and or type s of private and or public network s . Patient and or clinical records may be stored in the example clinical records database using any number and or type s of data structures entries tables and or records. The example clinical records database may be implemented by any number and or type s of memory ies memory device s and or storage device s .

The example clinical records database may include and or be in communication with additional record database s and may be capable of sharing data among the additional record database s . For example the example clinical records database may be implemented as part of an Integrating the Healthcare Enterprise IHE Cross Enterprise Document Sharing XDS integration profile a health information exchange HIE a regional health information organization RHIO and or any other system configured to facilitate sharing e.g. registration distribution access etc. of healthcare data among the healthcare enterprises. Additionally or alternatively the example clinical records database may be implemented in a healthcare data system not having information sharing capabilities such as a standalone physician office a clinic or a hospital having a central data system.

To analyze healthcare images according to the example methods and apparatus described herein the example clinical record server of includes the example image analyzer . As described in greater detail below the example image analyzer receives image data associated with for example a non contrast CT scan of a human brain. The example image analyzer performs a segmentation of the image data to obtain a plurality of blood volume values associated with the brain as well as corresponding boundaries defining a plurality of segments of the brain. The example image analyzer then integrates the calculated values e.g. the blood volume values sizes of the segments density values etc. into the image data by associating the calculated blood volume values with coordinates of the image data. As a result a first coordinate in a first segment of an image presented using the image data is associated with a set of statistics. The example image analyzer also enables a display of the set of statistics in response to a user input related to the first segment e.g. by placing a cursor on the first segment of the presentation of the image data and or clicking a button of a device controlling the cursor such as a mouse or keypad . As described below the display may be an overlay on the presentation of the image data including one or more of the statistics associated with the corresponding segment of the image.

Accordingly the example image analyzer provides a user thereof with automatic rapid segmentation of image data as well as an option to view statistics generated in associated with the segmentation by providing a simple input such as mouse click on an area of interest on a presentation of the image data. In some instances the image data corresponds to a potential complication such as a hematoma. In that case the rapid segmentation of the image data and the ability to obtain statistics from the image data with a single simple input provided by the example image analyzer impart significant advantages to healthcare practitioners attempting to diagnose and or analyze a condition of a patient as quickly and as accurately as possible.

The example image analyzer of treats the receipt of the image data at the communication interface as a request to analyze the image data. Accordingly the communication interface conveys the image data to a segmentation module . Generally the example segmentation module of is configured to process or transform raw information of the image data so that a representation of the image data is more easily interpreted or analyzed by a user of the representation. In the context of the illustrated example that involves a CT scan of a brain the example segmentation module is configured to locate blood volumes and to identify boundaries defining segments of blood volumes. In other words the example segmentation module locates potential hematomas using the received image data. In doing so the example segmentation also generates a plurality of statistics associated with each of the segments of blood volumes. For example for each identified segment the example segmentation module may calculate a blood volume value a ratio of the blood volume value of the segment to a total blood volume value of all segments or a total blood volume value of the entire brain size measurements of the segment e.g. lengths of a major axis and a minor axis a blood density of the segment etc.

To calculate these and or other values the example segmentation module of includes a thresholder that implements an example threshold algorithm an example erosion module that implements an example erosion algorithm and a watershedder that implements an example watershed algorithm. The example thresholder receives the image data i.e. output of the CT scan including the full brain volume and determines which components e.g. pixels of the image data correspond to blood. For example the threshold algorithm may include a predetermined adjustable threshold value e.g. brightness or intensity to be compared to each of the components e.g. pixels of the image data. Components that exceed the threshold value are identified as a first type of object and components that do not exceed the threshold value are identified as a second type of object. In the illustrated example the threshold algorithm identifies blood and non blood objects and generates first and second sets therefor. In some examples the threshold algorithm also calculates blood volume values associated with each blood object is calculated from for example intensities associated with the objects. Alternatively the blood volume values are part of the image data received at the communication interface of the example image analyzer .

The example threshold algorithm may also be configured to identify components having a certain intensity value associated with blood. In such instances the threshold value of the threshold algorithm can be set such that the threshold algorithm identifies blood objects of a first value or intensity and blood objects of a second value or intensity lower than the first value or intensity. Additionally the threshold algorithm may be configured to identify more than two types of objects to generate tiers of results. That is the thresholder may identify components of the image data at three or more levels using two or more threshold values.

The example segmentation module conveys the results of the example threshold algorithm to the example erosion module . The example erosion algorithm recognizes that the blood results generated by the threshold algorithm may include non hematoma blood indications connected to hematoma blood indications. To remedy this the example erosion algorithm disconnects the non hematoma blood indications from the hematoma blood indications. In other words the example erosion algorithm isolates the hematoma blood indications for additional analysis.

The example segmentation module conveys the results of the example erosion algorithm to the example watershedder . Generally the example watershed algorithm identifies a plurality of segments in the image data corresponding to the blood volume values calculated by the example threshold algorithm and or as received from the image data from the CT scan. To identify the segments the example watershed algorithm partitions pieces of data into clusters defined by boundaries identified by the watershed algorithm. For example the watershed algorithm may include a K mean clustering approach that groups pieces of data e.g. blood volume values into sets. In the illustrated example the sets correspond to segments of the image generated by the CT scan defined by boundaries across the image of the brain. As a result the example segmentation module generates a plurality of segments in the brain that represent clusters of blood found via the CT scan.

In the example image analyzer of the data corresponding to these clusters generated by the example watershedder is conveyed to a statistics generator . The example statistics generator calculates a plurality of statistics related to the segments of the brain. In the illustrated example the statistics generator calculates a blood volume value in a certain unit of measurement e.g. milliliters for each of the segments a first length of each segment corresponding to a short axis of the respective segment a second length of each segment corresponding to a long axis of the respective segment a minimum blood density e.g. in Hounsfield units for each segment and a maximum blood density e.g. in Hounsfield units for each segment. The example statistics generator may calculate additional or alternative statistics measurements and or values of interest to a healthcare practitioner viewing a presentation of the image data.

These statistics are then integrated into the image data using a statistics integrator . To integrate the statistics into the image data the example statistics integrator of associates the statistics for each segment or area with the coordinate values corresponding to the location of each segment. Each segment includes a plurality of coordinate values such as X axis and Y axis values in a standard coordinate map that are each configured to represent a location on a presentation of the image data. The statistics integrator associates the statistics with the coordinates in a manner such that an input received from a user related to a first one of the coordinate values such as click of button of a device controlling a cursor placed in a location corresponding to the first coordinate value triggers an output including the statistics integrated with the first coordinate value. In other words the example statistics integrator appends the statistics to the image data such that a presentation device displaying the image data e.g. one or more of the display s and or output device s of has immediate access to the statistics associated with each coordinate of the displayed image. For example each of the coordinates in a certain segment of the brain can be tagged with the statistics generated by the statistics generator . The tags are generated by the statistics integrator such that the tags are indexed in association with the coordinates. Thus when a presentation device receives an input related to a first coordinate the first coordinate is checked against a data structure including the tags. When the first coordinate is associated with a tag having one or more statistics the presentation device can display the statistics to a user thereof. The example statistics integrator of may append the statistics to the image data in additional or alternative ways such that the statistics information integrated into the image data can be interpreted by a presentation device in response to an input related to a corresponding coordinate.

The components of the image data corresponding to the statistics can be output by any suitable presentation device in any suitable manner. shows an example presentation of the image data of the CT scan received by the example image analyzer . More specifically the example presentation is an axial view of the non contrast CT image including an intracerebral hematoma . In the example of a cursor is not located on a coordinate corresponding to the hematoma . However shows an example presentation of the image data of the CT scan including a hematoma on which a cursor is located. That is a user has placed the cursor on a coordinate that is part of a segment of the hematoma . As described above the statistics associated with this coordinate are displayed to the user in response to the placement of the cursor shown in and or a click of a button of a device controlling the cursor . In the illustrated example of the statistics are presented on the presentation as an overlay . As shown in the displayed statistics of the overlay include a blood volume in cubic centimeters associated with the selected segment a minimum density associated with the selected segment and a maximum density associated with the segment. As described above additional or alternative statistics can be associated with the segment and or displayed in response to a user input.

The example image analyzer of also includes a bookmarker . The example bookmarker receives an input from for example one of the display s and or output device s of related to a coordinate of the image data. In response the example bookmarker designates the selected coordinate as a bookmarked coordinate. For example the bookmarker may set a flag associated with the coordinate to indicate that the coordinate was bookmarked by a user of the image data. In the illustrated example bookmarked coordinates instruct a presentation device processing the image data to highlight the bookmarked coordinates such that a user of the presentation device can readily return to the bookmarked coordinate and accordingly be presented with the statistics associated therewith. While the example bookmarker is shown as implemented in the example image analyzer of the bookmarker may be implemented in or in association with additional or alternative components such as for example one or more of the display s and or output device s of .

Referring back to a bookmark is placed on the presentation of the image data at the location on which the cursor is placed. Accordingly the example bookmarker designates the corresponding coordinate as bookmark 1 and the coordinate can be returned to at a later time. As indicated in the overlay the bookmark is associated with the statistics integrated into the selected coordinate.

While an example manner of implementing the image analyzer of has been illustrated in one or more of the elements processes and or devices illustrated in may be combined divided re arranged omitted eliminated and or implemented in any other way. Further the example communication interface the example segmentation module the example thresholder the example erosion module the example watershedder the example statistics generator the example statistics integrator and the example bookmarker and or more generally the example image analyzer of may be implemented by hardware software firmware and or any combination of hardware software and or firmware. Thus for example any of the example communication interface the example segmentation module the example thresholder the example erosion module the example watershedder the example statistics generator the example statistics integrator and the example bookmarker and or more generally the example image analyzer of can be implemented by one or more circuit s programmable processor s application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s and or field programmable logic device s FPLD s etc. When any of the appended claims are read to cover a purely software and or firmware implementation at least one of the example communication interface the example segmentation module the example thresholder the example erosion module the example watershedder the example statistics generator the example statistics integrator and the example bookmarker and or more generally the example image analyzer of are hereby expressly defined to include a tangible medium such as a memory DVD CD etc. storing the software and or firmware. Further still the example image analyzer of may include one or more elements processes and or devices in addition to or instead of those illustrated in and or may include more than one of any or all of the illustrated elements processes and devices.

Alternatively some or all of the example processes of may be implemented using any combination s of application specific integrated circuit s ASIC s programmable logic device s PLD s field programmable logic device s FPLD s discrete logic hardware firmware etc. Also some or all of the example processes of may be implemented manually or as any combination s of any of the foregoing techniques for example any combination of firmware software discrete logic and or hardware. Further although the example processes of are described with reference to the flow diagrams of other methods of implementing the processes of may be employed. For example the order of execution of the blocks may be changed and or some of the blocks described may be changed eliminated sub divided or combined. Additionally any or all of the example processes of may be performed sequentially and or in parallel by for example separate processing threads processors devices discrete logic circuits etc.

The example flow diagram of begins with the example image analyzer receiving image data associated with a non contrast CT scan of a human brain via the communication interface block . The received image data includes a full brain volume obtained via the CT scan as well as a plurality of values associated with a plurality of components e.g. pixels of the scan. The communication interface conveys the image data to the segmentation module which executes a threshold algorithm via the thresholder block . Generally the threshold algorithm identifies or locates blood in the image data. That is the threshold algorithm isolates components of the image generated by the CT scan that correlate to blood in the brain. The results of the threshold algorithm are conveyed to the erosion module which isolates hematoma blood results from non hematoma blood results block . The output of the erosion algorithm is conveyed to the watershedder of the segmentation module which executes a watershed algorithm thereon block . The watershed algorithm identifies a plurality of boundaries in the image using the blood volume values and as a result generates a plurality of segments within the image data.

The example statistics generator analyzes the segments provided by the segmentation module to generate one or more statistics related to each of the segments block . Example statistics to be generated by the statistics generator include calculates a blood volume value in a certain unit of measurement e.g. milliliters for each of the segments a first length of each segment corresponding to a short axis of the respective segment a second length of each segment corresponding to a long axis of the respective segment a minimum blood density e.g. in Hounsfield units for each segment and a maximum blood density e.g. in Hounsfield units for each segment.

The statistics are then integrated into the image data by the statistics integrator block . This integration of the statistics is performed such that the statistics can be readily retrieved by a presentation device in response to an input related to one of the segments. That is the integration of the statistics into the image data enables a display of the statistics in connection with e.g. via an overlay or a panel window a presentation of the image data in response to a single input received from a user such as a cursor being placed on a coordinate of the image corresponding to a hematoma as shown in and .

A user utilizing a presentation of the image data may insert a bookmark into the image data using a cursor. For example when a cursor is placed on a coordinate of an image and or when a button associated with the cursor is engaged thereby yielding a display of statistics of the statistics that the user deems interesting or worth revisiting e.g. to show an attending physician a surgeon or other team member the user may bookmark the coordinate. In such instances block the bookmarker designates the selected coordinate as a bookmark in the image data so that the statistics and location of the selected coordinate can be readily obtained at a later time.

The processor of is coupled to a chipset which includes a memory controller and an input output I O controller . As is well known a chipset typically provides I O and memory management functions as well as a plurality of general purpose and or special purpose registers timers etc. that are accessible or used by one or more processors coupled to the chipset . The memory controller performs functions that enable the processor or processors if there are multiple processors to access a system memory and a mass storage memory .

The system memory may include any desired type of volatile and or non volatile memory such as for example static random access memory SRAM dynamic random access memory DRAM flash memory read only memory ROM etc. The mass storage memory may include any desired type of mass storage device including hard disk drives optical drives tape storage devices etc.

The I O controller performs functions that enable the processor to communicate with peripheral input output I O devices and and a network interface via an I O bus . The I O devices and may be any desired type of I O device such as for example a keyboard a video display or monitor a mouse etc. The network interface may be for example an Ethernet device an asynchronous transfer mode ATM device an 802.11 device a DSL modem a cable modem a cellular modem etc. that enables the processor system to communicate with another processor system.

While the memory controller and the I O controller are depicted in as separate blocks within the chipset the functions performed by these blocks may be integrated within a single semiconductor circuit or may be implemented using two or more separate integrated circuits.

Certain embodiments contemplate methods systems and computer program products on any machine readable media to implement functionality described above. Certain embodiments may be implemented using an existing computer processor or by a special purpose computer processor incorporated for this or another purpose or by a hardwired and or firmware system for example.

Certain embodiments include computer readable media for carrying or having computer executable instructions or data structures stored thereon. Such computer readable media may be any available media that may be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. By way of example such computer readable media may comprise RAM ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM Flash CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of computer executable instructions or data structures and which can be accessed by a general purpose or special purpose computer or other machine with a processor. Combinations of the above are also included within the scope of computer readable media. Computer executable instructions comprise for example instructions and data which cause a general purpose computer special purpose computer or special purpose processing machines to perform a certain function or group of functions.

Generally computer executable instructions include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Computer executable instructions associated data structures and program modules represent examples of program code for executing steps of certain methods and systems disclosed herein. The particular sequence of such executable instructions or associated data structures represent examples of corresponding acts for implementing the functions described in such steps.

Embodiments of the present invention may be practiced in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers having processors. Logical connections may include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN that are presented here by way of example and not limitation. Such networking environments are commonplace in office wide or enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet and may use a wide variety of different communication protocols. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that such network computing environments will typically encompass many types of computer system configurations including personal computers hand held devices multi processor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics network PCs minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Embodiments of the invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by local and remote processing devices that are linked either by hardwired links wireless links or by a combination of hardwired or wireless links through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Although certain methods apparatus and articles of manufacture have been described herein the scope of coverage of this patent is not limited thereto. To the contrary this patent covers all methods apparatus and articles of manufacture fairly falling within the scope of the appended claims either literally or under the doctrine of equivalents.

