---

title: Simplified user interface navigation in at least first and second cursor navigation directions
abstract: Methods, systems, and apparatus, including computer program products, for user interface navigation. A method includes receiving first input indicating a first cursor navigation direction in a first visual area of a graphical user interface, the first visual area presenting one or more first content type indicators that are destinations for cursor navigation, selecting a next content type indicator based on the first cursor navigation direction and presenting a second visual area such that the next content type indicator is not visible but one or more other content type indicators are visible. The method includes presenting in the second visual area one or more content thumbnails that are destinations for cursor navigation in the second visual area, receiving second input indicating a second cursor navigation direction in the second visual area, and changing the second visual area to include a next content thumbnail based on the second cursor navigation direction.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08769424&OS=08769424&RS=08769424
owner: Adobe Systems Incorporated
number: 08769424
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100924
---
This application is a continuation and claims the benefit of priority under 35 USC 120 of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 777 600 filed Jul. 13 2007. The disclosure of the prior application is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Navigation of hierarchical menus on small displays such as those found on mobile devices e.g. mobile phones smart phones personal digital assistants etc. can be confusing requiring a user to fully commit into a menu before they are certain that is what they want to do. Conventional navigation methods traverse a variety of menus in a graphical user interface GUI without preserving contextual information for the user e.g. once within a menu item there is no visual cue for the user to suggest how they got to the menu or what comes before it after it or how to get back to where they started from. After one of a series of displayed menu choices is selected the choices disappear when the display is advanced into the menu choice. Moreover navigation on a mobile phone is typically one way i.e. once a series of navigational inputs is performed the reverse of the same series of inputs would not return the display to its original state.

In general one aspect of the subject matter described in this specification can be embodied in a method that includes receiving first input from an input control the first input indicating a first navigation direction in a first visual area of the GUI the first visual area presenting one or more first content type indicators each first content type indicator representing a distinct content type. In response to the first input a next content type indicator is selected from the first content type indicators based on the navigation direction. A second visual area is presented over the first visual area such that the next content type indicator is not visible but one or more other content type indicators are visible. One or more content thumbnails are presented in the second visual area each thumbnail being a representation of distinct content of the next content type indicator s content type. Second input is received from the input control the second input indicating a distinct second navigation direction in the second visual area. And in response to the second input the second visual area is changed to include a next content thumbnail from the content thumbnails based on the second navigation direction. Other implementations of this aspect include corresponding systems apparatus and computer program products.

These and other implementations can optionally include one or more of the following features. The second visual area is moved relative to the first visual area in response to the first input. The first visual area is changed to include the next content type indicator in response to the first input. Updating the second visual area can include animating movement of content thumbnails in the second visual area in response to one or more of the first input or the second input. The appearance of the first visual area is diminished relative to the second visual area. A thumbnail is a condensed visual representation of content. A content type is one of electronic mail news weather stock information music image video voice mail calendar information or contact. Data for content is obtained from a network location. A content type indicator hint is presented in the first visual area the hint being a visual representation of the next content type indicator. Each content type is associated with a distinct application further comprising obtaining a thumbnail for each content having the next content indicator s content type from a respective application for the content type.

Particular implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented to realize one or more of the following advantages. A GUI for a mobile device or other device is provided. The GUI can be navigated using input devices such as a five way input joystick or other input devices. Users can interact with menus in reversible manner e.g. users can navigate through various hierarchies and get back to where they started from by reversing the order of their navigational input. Once one of a series of displayed menu choices is selected the selected menu choice expands inline with the series of choices thereby preserving context for the user. When scrolling left right between content of the same content type e.g. weather forecasts for different cities the current content slides animates visually to make room for the next content. When viewing a set of contents there is an indication of which content is being displayed and how many total contents there are. As a user navigates up down through content type indicators the content type indicator list expands in line so that the currently selected content type takes up a large portion of the screen but is nonetheless still visually presented in the same order of the various sets of content type indicators. A content indicator hint can be displayed which shows the user that there is additional content and also shows the user the user how to move forward or backward through content. This allows the user to maintain context amongst the various menus at all times.

The details of one or more implementations of the invention are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features aspects and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the description the drawings and the claims.

Typically the display is small and can include a limited area in which to display information. A user of the mobile device typically wants to be able to quickly navigate to and interact with content. In various implementations users can navigate to and select content by providing navigational input through an input control. An input control can be a joystick such as a 5 way joystick a trackball one or more buttons one or more dials or knobs a motion detector for detecting the motion and or orientation of the mobile device a speech recognition unit for recognizing speech commands and the display itself for example. In the case of a display input control a user can provide navigational input by touching the display with one or more fingers or a stylus.

The first time a user or a process provides navigational input e.g. interacts with an input joystick a set of content type indicators can be presented in the content type indicator window as shown in . For example a user can press a down arrow key on a keypad. As another example a user can move a joystick in a particular direction such as up down left right or diagonal.

Content type indicators indicate a distinct content type and can serve as a navigational aid for a user. The content type indicator window can have one or more content type indicators. The content type window here includes content type indicators which indicate content types of photos stocks TV and music respectively.

The content type indicators can be text as shown in or they can be icons or some other representation of content. The content type indicators can be displayed in a vertical list as shown in or they can be displayed in other spatial arrangements such as in a horizontal list rectangular grid or in some other two or three dimensional arrangement. The content type indicator window can include more content type indicators that can fit on the display at a given time. For example the content type indicator window can include horizontal and vertical scrolling controls e.g. scroll bars to allow navigation to content type indicators that are not currently visible.

In response to the selection of a content type indicator a content window can be presented over or within the content type indicator window . In various implementations selection of a content type indicator or content automatically happens as a result of navigational input. In other implementations selection requires additional input beyond navigational input. The selection of a content type indicator indicating news content can result in the presenting of the content window over the content type indicator window . The content window can display one or more content thumbnails. A content thumbnail is a representation of content having the content type of the selected content type indicator such as a condensed view of content for example. Other thumbnail representations are possible. A content thumbnail can be text only a graphic a combination of text and graphics or some other combination. For example a content thumbnail in the content window includes a picture a news story headline and a partial news story . The content type indicator window can be displayed in a diminished appearance e.g. dimmed or grayed out as compared to the content window .

In response to a navigational input e.g. a key press a next content type indicator in the content type indicator window can be selected based on a direction implied by the input. For example the content type indicator indicating photograph content which in is shown underneath the content window can be selected in response to the press of a down arrow key.

A content type indicator for a previously selected content type can be made visible after the selection of a new content type indicator. For example the content type indicator indicating news content can be made visible in response to the selection of the content type indicator indicating photograph content . The selection of a content type indicator can result in an implicit deselection of the previously selected content type indicator.

A content window can completely cover an associated content type indicator resulting in the hiding of the content type indicator when the associated content window is shown. For example the news content window completely covers the news content type indicator i.e. the news content type indicator is not visible in when the news content window is displayed. However the news content type indicator is visible in when a different content window e.g. content window is displayed after the selection of a different content type indicator. As another example the content type indicator of is not visible in when the associated content window is displayed.

A content window can optionally have a title which can be the same name as the associated content type indicator. For example the content window includes a title with the text News and the content window includes a title with the text Photos . Mobile devices typically do not have a large enough display size to show multiple levels of context on the screen at the same time. Having a content window with title text the same as the text of the content type indicator can help communicate navigational context to the user.

A user can navigate to different content thumbnails in a content window. For example in the user can navigate to different news story thumbnails in the content window . In a user can navigate to different photograph thumbnails in the content window . In some implementations navigational input for navigating content thumbnails is distinct from navigational input for navigating through content type indicators. For example in one implementation a user can navigate through content type indicators using up and down arrow keys and can navigate through content thumbnails using left and right arrow keys. In another implementation the user can use the same navigational input directions to move through either content type indicators or content thumbnails e.g. up and down arrow keys can be used to navigate through either content type indicators or content thumbnails . In such an implementation a user can provide another input e.g. press a modifier key to indicate which set of items they wish to navigate through.

A content window can include one or more visual indicators which can indicate how many content thumbnails of a particular content type are available. For example the content window includes a set of circles which indicate that three news items are available. The open circle indicates that the user is viewing the first of the three items. As another example the content window includes a 3 of 6 text label that indicates that a selected content thumbnail is the third in a set of six photograph thumbnails.

A content window can display one or more content thumbnails at a time. For example the content window shows one news story thumbnail at a time. In contrast the content window displays several photograph thumbnails. In some implementations the thumbnail is shown in a size larger than the other thumbnails in the content window to indicate to the user that it is the selected content thumbnail. The selected content thumbnail includes a text description of the picture and a filename associated with the picture. Content thumbnails can be shown in a horizontal linear arrangement as shown in the content window or they can be arranged in other two or three dimensional configurations. For example content thumbnails can be arranged in a vertical list or in a rectangular grid.

A user can initiate an input to open a selected content thumbnail in an application or viewer program. For example a user can open the content thumbnail in a photo manager application to view and interact with the photograph. As another example the user can open the content thumbnail in a news reader program to read the full text of the associated news story.

The content thumbnails can wrap around as the user scrolls. For example the sixth content thumbnail i.e. 6 of 6 is selected in and as the user scrolls three times to the right to select the third content thumbnail i.e. 3 of 6 as illustrated in the index or number of the selected content thumbnail wraps around from 6 to 1 and then is incremented from 1 to 2 and then from 2 to 3 as the user continues to scroll . Content thumbnails on the edges of the content window such as content thumbnails can appear cropped to indicate that more content thumbnails can be viewed by scrolling to and beyond the edges.

A number of other changes can occur to content thumbnails in response to a navigation such as clipping hiding and showing. For example the right side of the content thumbnail appears clipped i.e. the right side of content thumbnail is hidden behind the selected content thumbnail in but the corresponding content thumbnail in does not have its right side clipped. However the left side of the content thumbnail is clipped in but the left side of the associated content thumbnail is not clipped in . Other differences in clipping exist between content thumbnails and and the corresponding associated content thumbnails and . A leftmost content thumbnail shown in disappears from the content window in response to the selection of content thumbnail i.e. content thumbnail does not appear in the post navigation view shown in . A rightmost content thumbnail in does not appear in . The content window can include more content thumbnails than can be displayed at one time and in response to a navigation previously invisible content thumbnails can be displayed.

Some content thumbnails can change size in response to the selection of a new content thumbnail to indicate the change in selection. For example the selected schoolhouse image content thumbnail is shown in in an enlarged size to indicate it is the currently selected thumbnail and after the user navigates to the right the schoolhouse image is shown in a smaller sized content thumbnail in to indicate it is no longer the selected thumbnail. As another example a lake image content thumbnail is shown in a size smaller than the size of the selected content thumbnail in to indicate it is not the currently selected thumbnail but the lake image content thumbnail is shown in a larger size in to indicate that it is now the selected thumbnail. Content thumbnails and have also moved leftward as compared to the positions of associated content thumbnails and in response to the rightward navigation.

In response to the enlarging of the newly selected content thumbnail e.g. the enlarging of the selected lake image content thumbnail as compared to the unselected content thumbnail content thumbnails to the immediate left and immediate right of the selected thumbnail can move apart to make room for the selected content thumbnail. For example content thumbnails and can move as indicated by arrows 

In the news content window is active. If the user navigates to the photos content type indicator e.g. by pressing a down arrow key the photograph content window can be displayed as illustrated in . The photos content type indicator can be hidden while the photos content window is displayed. In to indicate that the news content window is no longer active the news content window can be hidden and the news content type indicator can be shown i.e. as shown in the news content type indicator is not visible if the news content window is active but as illustrated in the news content type indicator is displayed if the news content window is not displayed . If the user navigates downward and selects the stocks content type indicator the stocks content window can be displayed as illustrated in . The photos content window can be hidden and the photos content type indicator can be displayed.

As the user navigates through content type indicators the content window can appear to move or slide in the direction that the user navigates. For example as the user moves downward as illustrated in the content window is replaced with the content window the content window is replaced with the content window and the displayed content window appears lower on the display each time a downward navigation occurs.

Content type indicators can appear to move apart to make room for the newly displayed content window. For example as illustrated by arrows in the news content type indicator can appear to be pushed up and the stocks content type indicator can appear to be pushed down to make room for the replacement of the photos content type indicator with the photos content window . Similarly as illustrated by arrows in the photos content type indicator can appear to be pushed up and a TV content type indicator can appear to be pushed down to make room for the replacement of the stocks content type indicator with the stocks content window .

Content indicator hints can include a text label which can indicate a type of content that can be scrolled to. For example the content indicator hint indicates that content related to calendars is above content type indicator . Similarly content indicator hint indicates that content related to addresses is below content type indicator . A content indicator hint can include text in a font smaller than text used for content type indicators. A content indicator hint can include a symbol to represent direction such as the arrow symbols shown in content indicator hints . A content indicator hint can include a graphic symbol which represents the content that can be scrolled to e.g. content indicator hint can include a small image of a calendar and content indicator hint can include a small image of an address card .

Next in response to the first input a next content type indicator from the first content type indicators is selected based on the navigation direction step . For example the photos content type indicator located underneath the selected content window can be selected in response to a downward navigation.

A second visual area is then presented over the first visual area such that the next content type indicator is not visible but one or more other content type indicators are visible step . For example the photos content window can be displayed over the content type indicator window the photos content type indicator can be made invisible and the news content type indicator i.e. the content type indicator of the previously selected content type can be made visible.

One or more content thumbnails are then presented in the second visual area each thumbnail being a view of distinct content of the next content type indicator s content type step . For example photograph content thumbnails and can be displayed in the content window .

A second input is then received from the input control the second input indicating a distinct second navigation direction in the second visual area step . For example the user can indicate a rightward horizontal navigation direction in the content window by pressing a right arrow key.

Next in response to the second input the second visual area is changed to include a next content thumbnail from the content thumbnails based on the second navigation direction step . For example the content window can be changed to show an enlarged content thumbnail and a new content thumbnail .

Mobile device applications and for example address book manager photograph manager and music player applications can expose navigation application programming interfaces API and . Each of the applications and can process a particular content type. For example a photo manager application can process photographic content a news reader program can process news content etc. The navigation APIs and allow a graphical user interface GUI to invoke the applications and to present content. For example content thumbnails can be displayed when a content window e.g. content window is displayed in response to the selection of a content type indicator. In addition the user can launch an application and when a content thumbnail e.g. content thumbnail is selected. The APIs and can provide standard functions which can be invoked by the GUI which can indicate the content types that a particular application supports. Other functions can be provided to render content thumbnails for content items. The GUI can use an animation engine to animate content type indicators and content thumbnails.

The processor is capable of processing instructions stored in the memory or on the storage device to display graphical information for a user interface on the display . The memory is a computer readable medium such as volatile or non volatile random access memory that stores information within the system device . The memory could store data structures representing content for example. The storage device is capable of providing persistent storage for the device . The storage device may be a hard disk device an optical disk device a flash memory or other suitable persistent storage means.

Implementations of the subject matter and the functional operations described in this specification can be implemented in digital electronic circuitry or in computer software firmware or hardware including the structures disclosed in this specification and their structural equivalents or in combinations of one or more of them. Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented as one or more computer program products i.e. one or more modules of computer program instructions encoded on a computer readable medium for execution by or to control the operation of data processing apparatus. The computer readable medium can be a machine readable storage device a machine readable storage substrate a memory device a composition of matter effecting a machine readable propagated signal or a combination of one or more of them. The term data processing apparatus encompasses all apparatus devices and machines for processing data including by way of example a programmable processor a computer or multiple processors or computers. The apparatus can include in addition to hardware code that creates an execution environment for the computer program in question e.g. code that constitutes processor firmware a protocol stack a database management system an operating system or a combination of one or more of them. A propagated signal is an artificially generated signal e.g. a machine generated electrical optical or electromagnetic signal that is generated to encode information for transmission to suitable receiver apparatus.

A computer program also known as a program software software application script or code can be written in any form of programming language including compiled or interpreted languages and it can be deployed in any form including as a stand alone program or as a module component subroutine or other unit suitable for use in a computing environment. A computer program does not necessarily correspond to a file in a file system. A program can be stored in a portion of a file that holds other programs or data e.g. one or more scripts stored in a markup language document in a single file dedicated to the program in question or in multiple coordinated files e.g. files that store one or more modules sub programs or portions of code . A computer program can be deployed to be executed on one computer or on multiple computers that are located at one site or distributed across multiple sites and interconnected by a communication network.

The processes and logic flows described in this specification can be performed by one or more programmable processors executing one or more computer programs to perform functions by operating on input data and generating output. The processes and logic flows can also be performed by and apparatus can also be implemented as special purpose logic circuitry e.g. an FPGA field programmable gate array or an ASIC application specific integrated circuit .

Processors suitable for the execution of a computer program include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors and any one or more processors of any kind of digital computer. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory or a random access memory or both. The essential elements of a computer are a processor for performing instructions and one or more memory devices for storing instructions and data. Generally a computer will also include or be operatively coupled to receive data from or transfer data to or both one or more mass storage devices for storing data e.g. magnetic magneto optical disks or optical disks. However a computer need not have such devices. Moreover a computer can be embedded in another device e.g. a mobile telephone a personal digital assistant PDA a mobile audio player a Global Positioning System GPS receiver to name just a few. Computer readable media suitable for storing computer program instructions and data include all forms of non volatile memory media and memory devices including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks e.g. internal hard disks or removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks. The processor and the memory can be supplemented by or incorporated in special purpose logic circuitry.

To provide for interaction with a user implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented on a computer having a display device e.g. a CRT cathode ray tube or LCD liquid crystal display monitor for displaying information to the user and a keyboard and a pointing device e.g. a mouse or a trackball by which the user can provide input to the computer. Other kinds of devices can be used to provide for interaction with a user as well for example feedback provided to the user can be any form of sensory feedback e.g. visual feedback auditory feedback or tactile feedback and input from the user can be received in any form including acoustic speech or tactile input.

Implementations of the subject matter described in this specification can be implemented in a computing system that includes a back end component e.g. as a data server or that includes a middleware component e.g. an application server or that includes a front end component e.g. a client computer having a graphical user interface or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the subject matter described is this specification or any combination of one or more such back end middleware or front end components. The components of the system can be interconnected by any form or medium of digital data communication e.g. a communication network. Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN e.g. the Internet.

The computing system can include clients and servers. A client and server are generally remote from each other and typically interact through a communication network. The relationship of client and server arises by virtue of computer programs running on the respective computers and having a client server relationship to each other.

While this specification contains many specifics these should not be construed as limitations on the scope of the invention or of what may be claimed but rather as descriptions of features specific to particular implementations of the invention. Certain features that are described in this specification in the context of separate implementations can also be implemented in combination in a single implementation. Conversely various features that are described in the context of a single implementation can also be implemented in multiple implementations separately or in any suitable subcombination. Moreover although features may be described above as acting in certain combinations and even initially claimed as such one or more features from a claimed combination can in some cases be excised from the combination and the claimed combination may be directed to a subcombination or variation of a subcombination.

Similarly while operations are depicted in the drawings in a particular order this should not be understood as requiring that such operations be performed in the particular order shown or in sequential order or that all illustrated operations be performed to achieve desirable results. In certain circumstances multitasking and parallel processing may be advantageous. Moreover the separation of various system components in the implementations described above should not be understood as requiring such separation in all implementations and it should be understood that the described program components and systems can generally be integrated together in a single software product or packaged into multiple software products.

Thus particular implementations of the invention have been described. Other implementations are within the scope of the following claims. For example the actions recited in the claims can be performed in a different order and still achieve desirable results.

