---

title: Providing information by a contact center
abstract: A method for a contact center to provide information to one or more users in response to one or more inquiries from the one or more users is presented. For example, the method includes accessing, using at least one client adaptor, at least one agent group that includes at least one agent having knowledge regarding the one or more inquiries. The method further includes the at least one agent responding to the one or more inquiries using the at least one client adaptor. The at least one agent group has pre-existing communications infrastructure that is accessed by a computing platform of the contact center using the at least one client adaptor.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08594306&OS=08594306&RS=08594306
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08594306
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100303
---
The present invention relates generally to contact centers for responding to user inquiries and more particularly to responding to user inquiries by agents sourced from a collection of agent groups comprising mobile agents fixed location agents subject matter experts contact center agents and or enterprise agents.

A conventional contact center may be for example a centralized and staffed office facility for receiving and responding to typically large volumes of requests via telephone. A call center is a type of contact center. For example a contact center is operated by an enterprise e.g. a company to administer incoming product support or respond to information requests or inquiries from consumers. Outgoing calls for telemarketing product services and debt collection may also be made. Additionally a contact center may also for example process letters faxes live chat and e mails.

A conventional contact center may typically operate in a building that houses workspaces for contact center agents. Workspaces for each agent may include for example a computer and a telephone. The contact center may also include one or more supervisor stations.

Many major enterprises and businesses use contact centers to interact with customers. Examples include utility companies mail order catalogue retailers and customer support facilities for computer hardware and software. Some businesses may service internal functions through contact centers for example help desks retail financial support and sales support.

A contact center may also be known as a customer interaction center because the contact center may be for example a central point from which most customer contacts are managed. Through contact centers valuable information about one or more companies may be routed to appropriate people contacts may be tracked and data may be gathered. A contact center may be a central part of customer relationship management for a company.

Principles of the invention provide for example contact centers methods apparatus and systems for providing information to one or more users in response to one or more inquiries from the one or more users.

In accordance with a first aspect of the invention a method for a contact center to provide information to one or more users in response to one or more inquiries from the one or more users is presented. The system comprises accessing using at least one client adaptor at least one agent group that includes at least one agent having knowledge regarding the one or more inquiries. The method further includes the at least one agent responding to the one or more inquiries using the at least one client adaptor. The at least one agent group has pre existing communications infrastructure that is accessed by a computing platform of the contact center using the at least one client adaptor.

In accordance with a second aspect of the invention a system for a contact center to provide information to one or more users in response to one or more inquiries from the one or more users is provided. The system comprises modules for implementing the above method.

In accordance with a third aspect of the invention apparatus for providing information to one or more users in response to one or more inquiries from the one or more users is provided. The apparatus includes a memory and a processor coupled to the memory. The apparatus is configured to perform the above method.

In accordance with a fourth aspect of the invention an article of manufacture for providing information to one or more users in response to one or more inquiries from the one or more users is provided. The article of manufacture is tangibly embodying a computer readable program code which when executed causes the computer to carry out the above method.

In accordance with a fifth aspect of the invention at least one response to the one or more inquiries is provided by at least one mobile agent of the at least one agent group. The at least one mobile agent communicates with at least one of the one or more users over communications infrastructure that is independent of a service provider providing the at least one agent group. The communications infrastructure comprises a public wireless communications network. The at least one mobile agent uses one or more communication devices wirelessly coupled to the public wireless communications network.

Advantageously principles of the invention provide for example i high quality and inexpensive mobile agents having particular skills experience and knowledge ii agent pools that may be dynamically managed and adjusted to properly match skills and knowledge of agents to required skills and knowledge needed by a contact center and iii expandable contact centers.

These and other features objects and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the following detailed description of illustrative embodiments thereof which is to be read in connection with the accompanying drawings.

Principles of the present invention will be described herein in the context of illustrative embodiments of contact networks systems and methods for responding to user inquiries. It is to be appreciated however that the principles of the present invention are not limited to the specific networks systems and methods illustratively shown and described herein. Rather the principles of the invention are directed broadly to techniques related to responding to inquiries of users. For this reason numerous modifications can be made to the embodiments shown that are within the scope of the present invention. That is no limitations with respect to the specific embodiments described herein are intended or should be inferred.

As used herein an inquiry is a communication by a user requesting information help or an answer. As used herein a user is an inquirer for example an individual a computing device or another entity seeking help related to an application e.g. a software application other software a device or a system. The user is the person computing device or other entity initiating the inquiry. The inquiry may be for example via a telephone call text message or Internet communication.

As used herein an agent is a person or a computing device that receives or is assigned an inquiry of a user and provides a response to the inquiry to the user. An agent is associated with a contact center.

As used herein a task is the action of responding to a user inquiry. A task is performed by typically one agent but may be performed by a plurality of agents.

As used herein a fixed location agent is an agent coupled to a contact center using a dedicated communications infrastructure of the contact center for example a virtual private network VPN of the contact center. The dedicated communications infrastructure may include for example one or more wired networks and or one or more satellite communications links. The dedicated communications infrastructure does not include cellular communications infrastructure available to the general public public cellular communications infrastructure or a cellular communications network available to the general public public cellular communications network . Fixed location agents may or may not physically reside at a contact center building. Fixed location agents may for example work from a remote office e.g. a home office . Fixed location agents connect to users through the dedicated communication infrastructure of the contact center. Fixed location agents typically may be available during customary set time periods. Because there is a trend for 24 hour per day availability of fixed location agents a customary time period may be for example 24 hours per day.

As used herein a mobile agent is an agent coupled to or communicating with a user using a non exclusive communications infrastructure not dedicated to exclusive use of a contact center and or agents of the contact center. A mobile agent for example may be coupled to or communicate with the user by a general use e.g. not dedicated to the contact center the user of the contact center and agents of the contact center wireless communications network for example a public cellular communications network. The mobile agent may use a cellular phone or other device to couple to the public cellular communications network e.g. a computer coupled to the cellular communications network . The mobile agent does not physically residing in a centralized contact center office facility.

The mobile agent at least at some point in time communicates with the user over only communications infrastructure that is independent of the service provider providing the agent or the group of agents that the agent belongs to. This communications infrastructure may comprise for example a public wireless communications network.

As used herein a fixed location contact center is a contact center using employing or having agents that are fixed location agents and not using employing or having agents that are mobile agents.

As used herein in telecommunications call management services are the process of forming and implementing rules and parameters for routing of telephone calls through a network.

As used herein a platform provider provides a computing resource e.g. comprising a computing device and or software computing service and or call management services e.g. phone or cellular phone call management services . The provided computing resource is known herein as a platform e.g. a platform in the cloud . The platform provider may optionally function as a service provider.

As used herein a service provider is an entity that provides agents and or other services using the framework of a platform provider by using a set of application programming interfaces APIs . The service provider entity may be for example an individual or an enterprise e.g. company university association of experts in a particular subject matter or other organization .

As used herein a client adaptor e.g. a user client adaptor or service provider client adaptor is a system component e.g. a device and or software that interfaces a client e.g. a user a service provider or a client thereof to a server platform or application. A user a service provider or other entity may access or contact a platform by using one or more client adaptors. The user service provider or other entity may provide the one or more client adaptors. The user service provider or other entity may contact or access the platform by accessing the client adaptor. The platform may contact or access the user service provider or other entity through the client adaptor of the user service provider or other entity. Communication between a user and a service provider may be between client adaptors of the user and the service provider. A client adaptor of a user may function as a set of local help desk extension numbers for the user to call for help by manipulating a dial plan. A client adaptor of a user may seamlessly bridge an original call of the user with an incoming call request from the service provider. A client adaptor of a user may have knowledge to establish communication channels for the user.

A user client adaptor may be operative for a user to initially communicate with a platform to process a user inquiry e.g. process a phone call from the user to retrieve information about the user e.g. user profile and to provide subsequent communication with the user regarding the inquiry e.g. respond to the inquiry . After an agent has been selected to respond to the user inquiry the client adaptor will communicate with a service provider client adaptor to seamlessly transfer the current inquiry e.g. transfer the current call from the user to the selected agent to establish direct communications between the user and the agent. The transfer of the current inquiry does not require any further actions by the user. The direct communications comprise for example telephone communications e.g. cellular phone communications in the case of mobile agents .

A service provider client adaptor may be operative for a service provider to seamlessly provide e.g. plug in or couple service of the service provider e.g. respond to user inquires by one or more mobile agents of the service provider through a platform without changing any existed dial plans or existing workflows e.g. call management or service workflows of the service provider. The service provider client adaptor does this by for example specifying a call management or service workflow of the service provider and specifying required parameters e.g. call routing parameters for the platform to use after the platform has selected an agent e.g. an agent of the service provider to provide a response to the inquiry. The service provider client adaptor may be further operative to then communicate with the user client adaptor for completing the direct communication channel between user and agent and or providing direct communications between the user and agent.

A client adaptor may be further operative to provide the above described functions of client adaptors and to enable communications involving for example a user an agent a service provider or clients thereof without modifying existing communications and or information technology infrastructure of the service provider other than to plug in or couple to the client adaptor s . For example using one or more client adaptors an agent group e.g. agent groups may be accessed. The agent group may have pre existing e.g. pre existing prior this or any previous communications with a platform of a service provider communications and or information technology infrastructure that may be accessed by for example a platform e.g. platform of or used by the contact center using the one or more client adaptors e.g. user and or service provider client adaptors .

As used herein a dial plan is a set of rules that govern communication and routing between two communication end points for example in a voice or Internet protocol VoIP communication infrastructure. For example a dial plan may be operative to decide which gateway to use at what time when a caller calls a receiver. The call plan may be for example an important or main control point for the VoIP infrastructure. An enterprise with a VoIP phone system has typically made a large investment or expenditure to design and deploy a dial plan of the enterprise. Changing a dial plan is therefore undesirable and may require a significant effort and or expenditure. A client adaptor using an existing dial plan may be operative to provide communications between a user and an agent of the service provider.

As used herein a plug in comprises a computer program that interacts with a host application e.g. host computer program to provide a function on demand. The plug in computer program may be available on demand and as needed.

The phrase cloud computing as used herein implies Internet based development and use of computing resources and technology. In concept some details of the computing resources may not be known by those using the computing resources. Those using the computing resources may no longer need knowledge of expertise in or control over technology infrastructure used. Cloud computing describes a relatively new supplement consumption and delivery model for information technology IT services based on the Internet. Cloud computing typically involves the provision of dynamically scalable and often virtualized resources as a service over the Internet. The term cloud is used as a metaphor for the Internet and Internet provided services based on cloud drawings sometimes used to depict the Internet in computer network diagrams as an abstraction of the underlying infrastructure it represents. Typical cloud computing providers may deliver common business applications online which may be accessed from a web browser while the software and data are stored on servers.

The term crowd sourcing as used herein is taking one or more tasks which may have been traditionally performed by an employee or conventional contractor and distributing the one or more tasks to members of a group of people or a community i.e. the crowd . Crowd souring recruitment of members from the crowd may be through an open call to a large group of people i.e. the crowd asking for people to perform the one or more tasks. Members of the crowd who are selected to perform the one or more tasks may be called agents. The open call may be through the Internet. Internet crowd sourcing as used herein is crowd sourcing wherein communication with the agent is at least in part through the Internet for example the open call is through the Internet and or communication with the agent in an assignment and or performance of an assigned task is through the Internet.

The Session Initiation Protocol SIP is a signaling protocol that may be used for controlling multimedia communication sessions such as voice and video calls over Internet Protocol IP . The protocol may be used for creating modifying and terminating two party e.g. unicast or multiparty e.g. multicast sessions comprising one or several media streams. The modification can involve changing addresses or ports inviting more participants adding or deleting media streams etc. Other feasible application examples include video conferencing streaming multimedia distribution instant messaging and presence information.

As used herein the term enterprise is understood to broadly refer to any entity that is created or formed to achieve some purpose examples of which include but are not limited to a company an undertaking an endeavor a venture a business a concern a corporation an establishment a firm an organization or the like.

Agent resources in fixed location contact centers are expensive and have limited scalability of the number of available agents and of telecommunication resources. The fixed location contact centers typically have a fixed and not easily expandable set of phones circuits to use. The fixed location contact centers may have a set of agents that is not easily expandable. Increasing the number of phone circuits and agents is limited.

In a contact center office agents with different shifts and or supporting different customer accounts may share the same desk and phone.

According to principles of the invention contact centers may be expanded to include mobile agents for example mobile agents obtained from Internet crowd sourcing. Mobile agents may be obtained or recruited from social networking e.g. social networking Internet sites . Contact centers comprising mobile agents are herein termed mobile agent contact centers. Note however that an agent pool of a mobile agent contact center may include only the mobile agents or a mix of mobile agents and fixed location agents. For example a contact center may transform the entire employee work force of the contact center into mobile agents.

The mobile agents may be high quality and or inexpensive or free agents. Mobile agents may have particular skills experience or knowledge.

Advantageously mobile agent contact centers may have agent pools that may be dynamically managed and or adjusted to properly match skills and knowledge of agents to required skills and knowledge needed by the contact center. In a dynamic mobile agent contact center entities or enterprises e.g. entities or enterprises accessible using plug in computer programs may provide mobile agents. The entities or enterprises may be for example service providers or contractors. For example a service provider or contracted enterprise may provide agents having particular skills experience or knowledge.

A platform may be used for crowd souring and implementing the function of mobile agent contact centers. Groups of mobile or fixed location agents e.g. groups having one or more specific knowledge areas may access the platform by plug in software or services.

The agent select module may be for example a component of a platform e.g. platform and the agent resources may be for example at least part of agent resources .

The user is coupled to the match and select module for example through a client adaptor e.g. client adaptor . The match and select module is coupled to each agent group and functions to select the agent groups according to specific criteria that may include for example the knowledge of the agent groups regarding topic X. By way of example only there may be a plurality agent groups that includes agent groups in addition to agent groups . The plurality of agent groups is knowledgeable in a number of areas or topics. Agent groups were selected from the plurality of agent groups at least in part because groups were knowledgeable in topic X or had knowledge most closely related to topic X than did other agent groups of the plurality of agent groups. Agent groups may comprise agents knowledgeable in different topics or areas. Agent groups may have been selected because they each had one or more agents knowledgeable in topic X.

Each agent of agent groups including each mobile agent is certified to have knowledge about one or more particular subjects or topics.

As mentioned above agent groups may be selected at least in part because the agent group includes at least one agent knowledgeable in the subject of the inquiry. Thus the selection of agent groups may be considered to be the at least part of the process of selecting of an agent to respond to the inquiry. The criteria for selecting an agent i.e. mobile agent or fixed location agent in at least agent groups to may include that the agent is knowledgeable in the subject of the inquiry e.g. topic X and may additionally include one or more of the following i availability of the agent ii a quality factor representing the quality of responses from the agent to past inquiries iii a quality factor representing the quality of responses to past inquiries from a service provider providing the agent iv geographic location of the agent v geographic location of the service provider and vi geographic location of the user. For example it may be desired to have the agent or the service provider of the agent located near or within a certain distance or closest to the user.

The call management workflow of the call management workflow system may be defined by the platform provider. A call management workflow defined by a platform provider may be the same for each user and for each user inquiry. By way of a non limiting example only the call management workflow may assign tasks at least in part according to a predetermined priority of agents or agent groups. The highest priority for assignment may be to an agent of the fixed location agent group . The fixed location agent group may comprise for example employees of company A and or a traditional company dedicated agents of a contact center or help desk. Alternately the fixed location agent group may comprise fixed location agents of another company or enterprise. For example the fixed location agent group may not be experts or especially knowledgeable in the subject of inquiry e.g. topic X but may be an agent of first contact for the user and or an agent filtering inquiries or routing inquiries to other agents e.g. agents of agent groups .

Second highest priority may be to an agent of company A agent group . The company A agent group may comprise either or both of mobile and fixed location agents. The company A agent group may be employees of company A. The third highest priority for assignment may be to a mobile agent of the mobile agent group . Agents of the mobile agent group may not be direct employees of company A but employees of company B. Company B may be for example a service provider or a contractor contracted by company A. The fourth highest priority may be to an agent of the Internet agent group . The Internet agent group comprises mobile and or fixed location agents sourced or obtained from the Internet by crowd sourcing. An agent of the Internet agent group may be solicited by an open solicitation on the Internet the invitation accessible to the general public or a targeted audience e.g. an industry or academic audience . The selected agent of the Internet agent group may be for example an agent who fulfills only the present task and has never responded to a past task or past user inquiry. For this case agent registration may apply only to the current task. Alternately the selected agent may have fulfilled previous tasks and have registered previously. Crowd or Internet sourced mobile agents as well as other mobile agents e.g. agents of agent groups may be available on an ad hoc basis e.g. be available for the current task with future availability or need undetermined .

Compensation e.g. monetary compensation to one or more mobile or fixed location agents and or to the service provider may be according to quality of service provided by the one or more agents or the service provider.

After routing of the inquiry to a selected agent e.g. a selected mobile agent a communication session is established between the user and the agent. For example if the selected agent is a mobile agent the communications session may be carried by wireless communications network .

Referring back to the contact network of the help desks and comprise agents. Agents of help desks and are typically non mobile agents e.g. fixed location agents of fixed location agent group . However a help desk is contemplated having partly or entirely mobile agents e.g. a virtual help desk . Enterprise and may or may not comprise mobile agents e.g. mobile agents of one or more agent groups . Mobile or fixed location agents may be obtained from the social network for example by enterprise using crowd sourcing. A contact network e.g. the contact network may comprise the call management workflow system .

As mentioned previously the contact network comprises the wireless communications network . The wireless communications network is configured to couple the user to a selected mobile agent . The contact network further comprises a wired communications network configured to couple the user to a selected fixed location agent .

If a mobile agent is selected for a task then the wireless communications network is used for a communication session between the user and the selected mobile agent . Each mobile agent communicates with one or more communication devices wirelessly coupled to the wireless communications network . The wireless network may comprise for example a cellular phone network. The wireless communication devices may include but are not limited to one or more cellular phones one or more computing devices coupled to a cellular phone network and one or more processing device e.g. processing devices coupled to one or more memory devices coupled to a cellular phone network. The wireless communication devices may comprise or run software to implement methods of the invention for example to access the wireless communications network and to respond to the inquiry of the user . The selected mobile agent may belong to enterprise enterprise or social network .

If a fixed location agent is selected for the task than a wired communication network is used for a communication session between the user and the selected fixed location agent . Each fixed location contact agents communicates using devices wired to the wired communications network .

In one embodiment of the invention the selected mobile contact agent belongs to enterprise and obtaining information by crowd sourcing for the selected mobile agent to form a response to an inquiry of the user .

The contact network further comprises a registration system for registering each agent including mobile agents. The registration system comprises the registration database and may be part of platform . The registration database comprises one or more subjects that each agent e.g. agent of is knowledgeable about and contact information for the agent. The contact information may comprise for example cellular phone number interne address email address or Uniform Resource Locators URL for the agent.

The contact network may further comprise a dial plan . The dial plan is operative to maintain and update a database of agent phone numbers e.g. cellular phone numbers of mobile agents and may optionally automatically call agents to respond to user inquires. The database of agent phone numbers may be for example at least part of the registration database or obtained from the registration database . The dial plan and database of agent phone numbers may be configured to be updated without affecting ongoing operations of the contact network.

The contact network further comprises an inquiry database for storing information related to one or more user inquiries. At least a portion of the stored information is made available or provided to one or more mobile agents of the mobile agents of enterprises and or social network during communication sessions between the user and the one or more mobile agents. In another embodiment the stored information is made available or provided to one or more fixed location agents or a combination of mobile agents and fixed location agents. For example the stored information may be provided by one or more Internet pages formed at least in part after an inquiry from a user is received and before the inquiry is routed to the one or more mobile agents or fixed location agents. The inquiry database and may be part of platform .

Step comprises registration of an agent . Agent may be a mobile agent or a fixed location agent. Registration of agent comprises i establishing that the agent is knowledgeable about one or more particular subjects and ii the agent providing agent contact information for the agent . Establishing that the agent is knowledgeable about one or more particular subjects may comprise for example certification or presentation of credentials e.g. diploma license experience test results or the like . Contact information may comprise for example cellular phone number internet address email address or Uniform Resource Locators URL for the agent .

Step comprises updating a registration database e.g. registration database to include i identifiers of the particular subjects in which agent is knowledgeable and ii the agent contact information.

Step comprises providing agent with an agent specific URL for agent to use to retrieve information related to one or more future inquiries related to one or more tasks that agent may be selected to perform. The URL is an address of one or more Internet pages providing information from an inquiry database e.g. inquiry database regarding the one or more future inquiries. The URL may be provided to agent by storing the URL in one or more communications devices e.g. cellular phone or computing device of the agent the communications devices having access to the wireless network .

Step comprises accessing a public wireless communications network e.g. wireless communications network by at least an agent e.g. selected mobile agent and the user e.g. user and optionally by a platform e.g. platform . The wireless network may be accessed by the platform and the agent to alert the agent to a task of responding to the inquiry after selection of the agent to perform the task. The agent and the user may access the wireless communications network in step .

Step comprises accessing an agent group and routing the inquiry to the agent who was selected to answer the inquiry. The accessing uses at least one client adaptor. A selected agent group comprising the agent having knowledge about a topic of the inquiry is accessed. Accessing the selected agent is considered as accessing the selected agent group. The routing may be for example according to the workflow system . The selected agent group may have pre existing communications infrastructure that is accessed by a computing platform of the contact center using the at least one client adaptor.

Step is optional and comprises obtaining information to respond to the inquiry from crowd sourcing. Crowd sourcing may be used to find and recruit the agent to respond to the inquiry and or crowd sourcing may be used by the selected agent to obtain information to use in formulating a response to the inquiry.

Step comprises providing the agent with information from a database of stored information related to the inquiry. The information may be provided to the agent during a communication sessions between the agent and the user. The information may be provided by one or more Internet pages formed at least in part after the inquiry is received and before the inquiry is routed to the agent. The information may be available for example by the agent accessing the agent specific URL described in step of method .

Step comprises the selected agent responding to the user regarding the inquiry. In responding to the user the agent establishes a communications session with the user and communicates with the user using one or more communication devices wirelessly coupled to one or more wireless communications networks. For example one or more client adaptors e.g. user client and or service provider adaptors are used for the user to respond. Optionally fixed location agents may respond to other inquiries of users.

Note that a plurality of agents may be selected to respond to an inquiry and or a plurality of agents may respond to an inquiry. Thus agents may collaborate in responding to an inquiry. By way of example only an agent selected to respond to an inquiry may recruit or receive assistance from another agent in responding to an inquiry.

The contact network is accessed by user who presents an inquiry initiating a session having an objective of an agent e.g. a mobile agent responding to the inquiry of the user. The user contacts the contact center communications infrastructure over communications link . Communications link may be a wired or a wireless link for example a wired telephone network a cellular telephone network or the Internet. Communications may be in the form of voice video and or text. As a communications device the user may use for example a wired phone a wireless phone and or a computer.

The contact center communications infrastructure comprises at least a portion of the communications infrastructure coupling the user to the agent and used for communications between the user and the agent . For example the contact center communications infrastructure may comprise VoIP or other packet switched network. The contact center communications infrastructure is typically but not necessarily located at least in part in a physical facility of the contact center. Link connects the agent with the contact center communications infrastructure . Link may be for example a wireless communications network or link coupled to a wireless communications device of the agent .

Session management is performed by the manager of session dynamics . The manager of session dynamics may manage obtaining the inquiry from the user providing the inquiry to the agent obtaining the response from the agent providing the response to the user and communications between the user and the agent . The manager of session dynamics is coupled to the contact center communications infrastructure .

The manager of agents manages the formation of the agent resources e.g. agent resources and dynamically selects an agent group including mobile agents that may be knowledgeable about the subject or topic of the inquiry. The agent selected to respond to the inquiry e.g. the selected mobile agent will come from this agent group. The manager of agents may also manage agent registration e.g. by the method . The manager of agents is coupled to at least agent and is coupled to the manager of session dynamics . The manager of session dynamics provides the inquiry and optionally the information about the user e.g. identification and an application the inquiry is related to to the manager of agents . The manager of agents provides the agent group that may be knowledgeable about the subject or topic of the inquiry to the manager of session dynamics . The manager of session dynamics may for example comprise or manage the agent select module to further select the agent to respond to the inquiry. The contact center dial plan is coupled to and managed by the manager of session dynamics which may modify update or add to the dial plan including updating or adding cellular phone numbers of mobile agents. The contact center dial plan is further coupled to the contact center communications infrastructure to provide for example the phone number e.g. cellular phone number of the agent selected to respond to the inquiry to the contact center communications infrastructure . At this point the contact center communications infrastructure may route the call from the user to the agent . Alternately the contact center communications infrastructure may call the agent informing the agent that the agent has been selected to respond to the inquiry of the user .

As mentioned above the service provider provides one or more agents. Note that there may be more than one service provider each service provider providing one or more agents to potentially respond to inquiries of users. For example different service providers may provide agents knowledgeable in different subjects or different service providers may provide agents from different sources e.g. one enterprise another enterprise or crowd sourcing .

Using the crowd sourcing system the user presents an inquiry using user application . User application may be for example an application available to the user over the Internet. As such user application may be considered an Internet application. The user application forwards the inquiry to a call management workflow instance at the call management provider using API s and relevant parameters. The call management provider may have one or more SIP call APIs . Application workflow related APIs e.g. API defining the application workflow are provided to or coupled to the call management workflow instance . The platform executes the workflow instance to obtain information to respond to the inquiry for example to select the service provider to respond to the inquiry i.e. to select the service provider to provide an agent to respond to the inquiry to access the selected service provider and to provide the inquiry to the selected service provider . The workflow instance may comprise for example accessing one or more databases accessing one or more workflow accessed applications and using people to perform at least a portion of the workflow instance . The workflow accessed applications may comprise for example Internet or web services. The databases may comprise for example databases associated with the workflow accessed applications or databases comprising knowledge or facts relevant to answering the inquiry. Such knowledge or facts may be provided through call related data module to the service provider to use in responding to the inquiry. The call management workflow instance is coupled to the user application the one or more workflow accessed applications the one or more databases and the call related data module . The call related data module is further coupled to the service provider .

The call management workflow instance is further coupled to the service provider client adaptor of the selected service provider . The call management workflow instance provides the service provider client adaptor needed communications setup information e.g. user and service provider phone number or numbers service provider client phone number or numbers text chat URLs and or other setup information . The setup information may be for example setup information for multi channel communication. The service provider client adaptor is coupled to the user at least through the contact center communications infrastructure .

The service provider client adaptor sets up the communications connection e.g. voice and or data connection between user and the service provider using the contact center communications infrastructure .

The service provider responds to the communications connection e.g. answers a phone call and optionally access inquiry related information in or provided by the call related data module and accessible using for example one or more URLs e.g. one or more agent specific URLs described in step of method .

The service provider provides agent e.g. selected mobile agent . Thus the agent is considered part of the service provider .

The user contacts e.g. via a phone text message or email the help desk. If the contact is via a phone call to a phone number of the help desk the phone call will be provided to the user client adaptor associated with the help desk phone number. The user client adaptor answers the phone call from the user e.g. answers using an interactive voice response system . Thus the user is coupled to the user client adaptor via a communications link e.g. a phone network . The user may provide the inquiry to the help desk during this contact. Alternately the user may provide the inquiry to a platform application as described below.

The user client adaptor searches in user profile database UP DB for the profile of the user . The user profile database is coupled to the user client adaptor . The user client adaptor is further coupled to a user platform application . The user client adaptor invokes the platform application providing the profile of the user as input to the platform application . The platform application is further coupled to the user . The platform application provides the user with means for the user to provide inquiry and or information about the inquiry to the platform e.g. the platform application or to the service provider . For example the platform application sends the user email or a text message containing an address for the user to use to send the inquiry and or information about the inquiry e.g. a URL of an Internet or web page that may be filled out by the user to provide the information to the platform application .

The platform application forwards the inquiry and or information about the inquiry to a call management workflow instance at a call manager service provider using API s and relevant parameters. The call management provider has one or more SIP call APIs . Application workflow related APIs e.g. API defining the application workflow are provided to or coupled to the call management workflow instance . The platform executes the workflow instance to obtain information to respond to the inquiry for example to select the service provider to respond to the inquiry i.e. to select the service provider to provide an agent to respond to the inquiry to access the selected service provider and to provide the inquiry to the selected service provider . The workflow instance may comprise for example accessing one or more databases accessing one or more workflow accessed applications and using people to perform at least a portion of the workflow instance . The workflow accessed applications may comprise for example Internet or web services. The databases may comprise for example databases associated with the workflow accessed applications or databases comprising knowledge or facts relevant to answering the inquiry. Such knowledge or facts may be provided through call related data module to the service provider to use in responding to the inquiry. The call management workflow instance is coupled to the user application the one or more workflow accessed applications the one or more databases and the call related data module . The call related data module is further coupled to the service provider for example to the agent .

The call management workflow instance is further coupled to the service provider client adaptor of the selected service provider . The call management workflow instance provides the service provider client adaptor needed communications setup information e.g. user and service provider phone number or numbers service provider client phone number or numbers text chat URLs and or other setup information . The setup information may be for example setup information for multi channel communication.

The service provider client adaptor is coupled the user client adapter and to the user through the user client adaptor . The service provider client adaptor provides communication e.g. a phone call to user client adaptor and connects the user and the service provider e.g. the agent using for example an existing enterprise VoIP communications network or other phone network not shown .

The service provider e.g. the agent responds to the communication e.g. answers the phone call and optionally access inquiry related information in or provided by the call related data module and accessible using for example one or more URLs e.g. one or more agent specific URLs described in step of method .

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art aspects of the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly aspects of the present invention may take the foam of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore aspects of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in one or more computer readable medium s having computer readable program code embodied thereon.

Any combination of one or more computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be a computer readable signal medium or a computer readable storage medium. A computer readable storage medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus or device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable storage medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CD ROM an optical storage device a magnetic storage device or any suitable combination of the foregoing. In the context of this document a computer readable storage medium may be any tangible medium that can contain or store a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

A computer readable signal medium may include a propagated data signal with computer readable program code embodied therein for example in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. Such a propagated signal may take any of a variety of forms including but not limited to electro magnetic optical or any suitable combination thereof. A computer readable signal medium may be any computer readable medium that is not a computer readable storage medium and that can communicate propagate or transport a program for use by or in connection with an instruction execution system apparatus or device.

Program code embodied on a computer readable medium may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc. or any suitable combination of the foregoing.

Computer program code for carrying out operations for aspects of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

Aspects of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instructions which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer other programmable data processing apparatus or other devices to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer other programmable apparatus or other devices to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

Referring again to the diagrams in the Figures illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in a flowchart or a block diagram may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagram and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagram and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

Accordingly techniques of the invention for example as depicted in can also include as described herein providing a system wherein the system includes distinct modules e.g. modules comprising software hardware or software and hardware . By way of example only the modules may include but are not limited to an agent registration module operative to perform agent registration comprising providing one or more cellular phone numbers and one or more subject areas of knowledge for each mobile agent. The registration module comprises a database storing cellular phone numbers of each mobile agent and subject areas of knowledge for the each mobile agent. By way of further example the modules may include but are not limited i a wireless communications network accessing module configured to access a wireless communications network and ii an inquiry response module operative to respond to an inquiry of a user the responses provided by a mobile agent located outside of a fixed location contact center the mobile agent communicates with the user using one or more communication devices wirelessly coupled to the wireless communications network iii an inquiry routing module configured to route an inquiry of a user to a mobile agent iv an information obtaining module configured to obtain information by crowd sourcing for a selected agent to form a response to an inquiry of a user and v a registration module operative to register each mobile agent that may be selected to respond to an inquiry of a user the registration of each mobile agent comprising i storing in a database one or more cellular phone numbers of the each mobile agent and ii storing in the database one or more subject areas of knowledge for the each mobile agent. By way of further example the modules may include but are not limited to an accessing module operative to access using at least one client adaptor at least one agent group comprising at least one agent having knowledge regarding one or more inquiries. The at least one agent group has pre existing communications infrastructure that is accessed by a computing platform of the contact center using the at least one client adaptor. These and other modules may be configured for example to perform the steps of described and illustrated in the context of .

One or more embodiments can make use of software running on a general purpose computer or workstation. With reference to such an implementation employs for example a processor a memory and an input output interface formed for example by a display and a keyboard . The term processor as used herein is intended to include any processing device such as for example one that includes a CPU central processing unit and or other forms of processing circuitry. Further the term processor may refer to more than one individual processor. The term memory is intended to include memory associated with a processor or CPU such as for example RAM random access memory ROM read only memory a fixed memory device for example hard drive a removable memory device for example diskette a flash memory and the like. In addition the phrase input output interface as used herein is intended to include for example one or more mechanisms for inputting data to the processing unit for example keyboard or mouse and one or more mechanisms for providing results associated with the processing unit for example display or printer . The processor memory and input output interface such as display and keyboard can be interconnected for example via bus as part of a data processing unit . Suitable interconnections for example via bus can also be provided to a network interface such as a network card which can be provided to interface with a computer network and to a media interface such as a diskette or CD ROM drive which can be provided to interface with media .

A data processing system suitable for storing and or executing program code can include at least one processor coupled directly or indirectly to memory elements through a system bus . The memory elements can include local memory employed during actual execution of the program code bulk storage and cache memories which provide temporary storage of at least some program code in order to reduce the number of times code must be retrieved from bulk storage during execution.

Input output or I O devices including but not limited to keyboard display pointing device and the like can be coupled to the system either directly such as via bus or through intervening I O controllers omitted for clarity .

Network adapters such as network interface may also be coupled to the system to enable the data processing system to become coupled to other data processing systems or remote printers or storage devices through intervening private or public networks. Modems cable modem and Ethernet cards are just a few of the currently available types of network adapters.

As used herein including the claims a server includes a physical data processing system for example system as shown in running a server program. It will be understood that such a physical server may or may not include a display and keyboard.

It will be appreciated and should be understood that the exemplary embodiments of the invention described above can be implemented in a number of different fashions. Given the teachings of the invention provided herein one of ordinary skill in the related art will be able to contemplate other implementations of the invention. Indeed although illustrative embodiments of the present invention have been described herein with reference to the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to those precise embodiments and that various other changes and modifications may be made by one skilled in the art without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention.

