---

title: Systems and methods for temporal multiplexing X-ray imaging
abstract: The present subject matter relates to systems and methods for temporal multiplexing x-ray imaging of dynamic objects with high temporal resolution and fast imaging speed. A pulsed x-ray beam can irradiate an object undergoing a range of motion such as a cyclic motion. Multiple x-ray images can be acquired at different phases within a single motion cycle or range of the object. The multiple x-ray images can be demultiplexed to produce an individual phase image. Compared to sequential imaging, temporal multiplexing x-ray imaging can achieve high temporal resolution of dynamics object in multiple phases with imaging time comparable to that of a single phase. Temporal multiplexing x-ray imaging can thus be applied to a wide variety of applications, including biomedical imaging and industrial non-destructive testing.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08358739&OS=08358739&RS=08358739
owner: The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
number: 08358739
owner_city: Chapel Hill
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100903
---
This invention was made with government support under Grant Nos. 4 R33 EB004204 01 and U54 CA119343 awarded by The National Institutes of Health National Institute of Biomedical Imaging and Bioengineering and the National Cancer Institute. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The subject matter disclosed herein relates generally to systems and methods for x ray imaging. More particularly the subject matter disclosed herein relates to x ray imaging of dynamic objects with high temporal resolution and fast imaging speed.

In many applications of x ray imaging such as medical imaging and industrial inspections it is often desirable to obtain dynamic i.e. moving images of objects in different dynamic states i.e. phases with high temporary resolution. For example the object may be undergoing motions such as the cyclic motions involved in human respiration and cardiac activities. Unfortunately motion induced blurs can degrade the image quality resulting in significantly deteriorated imaging resolution. The current practice of reducing motion blurs is to use fast frame readout from x ray detectors or short x ray exposure from x ray sources.

Because of technological constrains however the frame rate of current x ray detectors is limited by the speed from detector readout electronics and the x ray exposure time is limited by the flux from a given x ray tube. To reduce the imaging blur induced by a cyclic motion it is common to gate the x ray exposure and the image acquisition to the cyclic motion. This method can reduce the blur but it can also significantly increase the imaging time because only one image is taken within a single motion cycle or predetermined motion range.

Accordingly in all existing methods the temporal resolution is limited by the pulsing control of the x ray source and the imaging time is limited by the x ray detector speed. Advances in this field have yielded devices and methods that can achieve high temporal resolution by using a carbon nanotube CNT x ray source and multiplexing methods can increase the 3D x ray imaging speed. Despite these advances however it would desirable for a system and method for x ray imaging of dynamic objects with high temporal resolution and fast imaging speed without using fast x ray detectors.

In accordance with this disclosure systems and methods for x ray imaging of dynamic objects with high temporal resolution and fast imaging speed are provided. In one aspect a method of x ray imaging is provided. The method can include applying a single pulsed x ray beam to an object to be imaged undergoing cyclic motion detecting x ray radiation from the object generating multiple x ray images from the x ray radiation and demultiplexing the multiple x ray images to produce an individual phase image. The multiple x ray images can be acquired at different phases within a single motion cycle or predetermined motion range of the object.

In another aspect an x ray imaging system is provided. The x ray imaging system can include a single beam x ray source operable to generate a pulsed x ray beam for acquiring multiple x ray images of an object undergoing cyclic motion at different phases within a single motion cycle or predetermined motion range an x ray detector and a controller in communication with the x ray source and the object.

Although some of the aspects of the subject matter disclosed herein have been stated hereinabove and which are achieved in whole or in part by the presently disclosed subject matter other aspects will become evident as the description proceeds when taken in connection with the accompanying drawings as best described hereinbelow.

Multiplexing refers to the simultaneous collection of multiple datasets and has been applied successfully in areas such as telecommunication and analytical instrumentations to increase rates of data acquisition. Although multiplexing using a coded aperture approach has previously been considered for x ray imaging using newly developed technology for a carbon nanotube based spatially distributed multi beam x ray source multiplexing x ray imaging can be performed with frequency multiplexing which is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 7 245 692 to Lu et al. filed Apr. 25 2006 and issued Jul. 17 2007 the disclosure of which is incorporated herein in its entirety. Alternatively multiplexing x ray imaging can be performed with spatial binary multiplexing which is disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Pub. No. 2008 0069420 to Zhang et al. filed May 21 2007 the disclosure of which is also incorporated herein in its entirety. By simultaneous collection of multiple x ray images either multiplexing approach can significantly increase the data collection speed when compared to a conventional sequential imaging mode.

In yet another alternative the presently disclosed subject matter provides a novel temporal multiplexing method for dynamic x ray imaging of an object in cyclic motion. Compared to existing spatial multiplexing methods the disclosed systems and methods provide equivalent effects in terms of reduction in data collection time but only a single beam x ray source need be used and multiplexing can be performed through the temporal domain.

In general the dynamic x ray imaging of an object motion such as cyclic motion or a predetermined motion range requires multiple phase images i.e. multiple images corresponding to different phases along the motion cycle or range. In methods according to conventional sequential imaging modes each phase image is acquired from synchronizing the x ray exposure and the image acquisition e.g. a detector readout with the motion cycle or range. Thus within one motion cycle or range only one image can be acquired. Furthermore when the flux within the short exposure from a given x ray tube is limited multiple frames must be acquired at the same phase and averaged for a single phase image to have a sufficient signal to noise ratio SNR . As a result this practice can lead to prolonged imaging time.

In contrast one principle of temporal multiplexing as disclosed by the presently disclosed subject matter is to speed up the multiple frame averaged dynamic x ray imaging process by acquiring multiple images of the object at different phases within a single motion cycle or cycles. Furthermore this acquisition can be accomplished without the use of a fast x ray detector by acquiring the multiple images of different phases in a single composite image taken once per motion cycle. The multiple images contained within the composite image can then be deconvoluted by demultiplexing to recover the individual phase images.

For example the temporal multiplexing concept is illustrated in for a generalized x ray imaging system generally designated consisting of a single beam x ray source XS operable to generate an x ray beam XB that can be pulsed a digital area detector DET operable to detect x ray radiation XR an object O undergoing cyclic motion and an analyzer AN for imaging object O. As used herein the term cyclic can refer to a motion profile that is repeatable but not necessarily periodic such as the contraction expansion of a human heart for example. Object O can be positioned on an object stage OS in the path of x ray beam XB for intercepting at least a portion of x ray beam XB and system can further include a control module CTR in communication with one or more of x ray source XS object O and x ray detector DET.

X ray source XS can be any suitable device operable to generate an x ray beam for imaging an object. An exemplary x ray source can be a field emission x ray source such as those described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 553 096 to Zhou et al. filed Oct. 6 2000 and issued Apr. 22 2003 U.S. Pat. No. 6 850 595 to Zhou et al. file Dec. 4 2002 and issued Feb. 1 2005 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 876 724 to Zhou et al. filed Jan. 22 2002 and issued Apr. 5 2005 the disclosures of which are incorporated by reference herein. It is to be understood however that the systems and methods of x ray imaging disclosed herein are not limited to any particular type or configuration of x ray source. Rather the present systems and methods can be implemented using any of a variety of x ray sources capable of generating a pulsed x ray beam.

In one particular configuration illustrated in x ray source XS can be a field emission x ray source including an electron field emitter FE also referred to herein as a pixel for emitting electrons. Electron field emitter FE can comprise one or more carbon nanotubes and or other suitable electron field emission materials. Exemplary electron field emission materials can include nanotubes nanorods. Spindt tips and nanoparticles of diamond. Carbon nanotubes are typically nano structured or nanostructure material such as nanoparticles with particle sizes less than 100 nm. Electron field emitter FE can be coupled to a surface of a cathode C conductive or contact line or other suitable conductive material for receiving current.

Electron field emitter FE can be controlled by a controller such as control module CTR shown in to emit electrons for producing an electron beam EB. In one embodiment a controller can control a voltage source VS to apply a voltage between electron field emitter FE and a gate electrode GE to generate an electric field for extracting electrons from electron field emitter FE. The applied voltage can be pulsed for generating a pulsed electron beam EB. Thus the frequency of x ray beam XB can be controlled by the frequency of the applied extraction electric field.

Electron field emitter FE can be oriented such that extracted electrons are directed towards an anode target structure T. Target structure T can produce an x ray beam XB of a desired wavelength upon bombardment by electron beam EB. X ray source XS can include a focusing electrode FEL for focusing electrons extracted from electron field emitters FE on target structure T and thus reducing the size of electron beam EB. Focusing electrode FEL can be controlled by application of voltage to focusing electrode FEL by voltage source VS. A voltage source VS can apply a voltage between gate electrode GE and target structure T for accelerating electrons emitted by field emitters FE towards target structure T.

A vacuum chamber VC can include a sealed interior for containing electron field emitter FE and gate electrode GE. The interior of vacuum chamber VC can be evacuated to achieve a desired interior pressure. An exemplary interior pressure of vacuum chamber VC can be about 10Torr. Electron beam EB can travel from the interior of vacuum chamber VC to its exterior through an electron permeable portion or window.

Referring again to system shown in the detected x ray radiation XR can include the portion of x ray beam XB passing through object O and or past object O. X ray radiation XR can also include noise generated by imaging objects detector DET electronic circuits or various other sources. Further x ray detector DET can generate x ray data based on x ray radiation XR. X ray detector DET can be any suitable device operable to detect x ray radiation. In one example x ray detector DET can be a high frame rate digital detector. In another example x ray detector DET can be one or more Si PIN photodiode x ray detectors. Examples of digital x ray detectors include but are not limited to charge coupled device CCD area detectors amorphous selenium a Se area detectors amorphous silicon a Si area detectors and arrays of Si PIN photodiode x ray detectors.

X ray source XS can be programmed so that the x ray exposure can be synchronized with the detector readout and the motion of object O. To reduce the imaging blur from the cyclic motion the x ray exposure can be substantially shorter than the detector integration time. With this short exposure the x ray flux from x ray source XS can be so limited that multiple frames are required for dynamic x ray imaging of object O in sequential imaging mode.

Using temporal multiplexing according to the present systems and methods the multiple frames can each capture more than just a single phase image. In particular X ray source XS can provide X ray radiation XR in the form of a sequenced combination of X ray pulses that are all transmitted through object O and received at detector DET within a single detection cycle of X ray detector DET. In other words although X ray radiation XR can comprise multiple pulses that are separated in time all of the pulses are received at detector DET as a single detection as if the temporally spaced pulses were received concurrently. In this way although detector DET need only be fast enough for a single image to be generated each motion cycle of object O that single image can be a multiplexed composite image contained multiple phase images. The composite image can be later demultiplexed to recover the individual phase images. Thus even though multiple frames may be required to achieve sufficient signal to noise ratio those multiple frames can acquire image data for multiple phase images thereby reducing the imaging time while maintaining high temporal resolution.

Specifically to image an object in N phases with temporal multiplexing the first step can be to construct a multiplexing matrix. Similar to spatial multiplexing there are many possible ways of achieving multiplexing. For example the Hadamard binary matrix can be used although it should be understood that any multiplexing matrix capable of being inverted can be applied. A second step can be to acquire N composite x ray frames each composite frame being triggered by the signal synchronized to the beginning of a motion cycle or range and exposed by an x ray pulse sequence defined by a row of the Hadamard multiplexing matrix. After all composite images are acquired demultiplexing can be performed by applying inverse Hadamard matrix to recover the x ray images corresponding to the N phases of the motion cycle or range.

By way of specific example for N having a value of 7 shows the seven phases along one motion cycle or predetermined motion range the multiplexing matrix and the corresponding x ray pulse timing diagram. The columns of the matrix can correspond to phases and the rows of the matrix can correspond to output recording frames i.e. the composite frames . In a single row of the matrix a value of one in a particular column can indicate that the x ray pulse corresponding to that phase is on for that composite frame. Conversely a value of zero can indicate that the x ray pulse corresponding to that phase is off for a given composite frame. Each of the seven composite frames can be exposed by four x ray pulses according to the corresponding row of the Hadamard matrix. From those seven composite images the seven phase images corresponding to the seven phases of the motion cycle or range can be recovered through demultiplexing. It should be noted that the temporal resolution of the imaging method can be determined by the individual x ray pulse width and it is not necessary for all pulses to have the same pulse width but it can be helpful for the pulse width to be the same for a given phase of cyclic motion. For example when applying temporal multiplexing to objects that have complex cyclic motion different phases can have different motion speeds e.g. contraction and expansion of a heart and lung . In these situations a higher temporal resolution can limit the motion blur during phases having a higher motion speed. In this regard the flexibility in temporal multiplexing to choose different x ray pulse widths for different phases of a complex cyclic motion can lead to better handling of motion blur thereby resulting in sharper imaging quality.

In one particular arrangement temporal multiplexing can be applied to the dynamic x ray imaging of a mechanical rotating object with a CNT based x ray source XS and a flat panel x ray detector DET which is illustrated in . A CNT x ray source can advantageously be used in this arrangement because of its flexibility in electronic switching. Any other suitable type of x ray source with easy programmable switching mechanisms can be used. For this configuration x ray source XS can be operated at 45 kVp 0.9 mA peak tube current and a 100 m effective focal spot size. X ray detector DET can be a complementary metal oxide semiconducting CMOS flat panel sensor with a Csl scintillator plate directly deposited on a photo diode array e.g. a Model C7940DK 02 flat panel sensor produced by Hamamatsu Photonics . For instance the sensor can have 2 k 2 k pixels with a n ominal pixel size of about 50 m.

For ease of explanation the rotating object can be modeled using a wire phantom that can be made of an aluminum disk e.g. about 1 mm thick which can be driven by a stable rotor. Disk can have a radius of about 115 mm with a rectangular cut out section near its edge e.g. a 20 mm 60 mm section . A first tungsten wire e.g. about 1 mm in diameter can be mounted radially across this cut out section. A second tungsten wire e.g. about 50 m can be positioned perpendicular to first wire at its mid length. A notch e.g. about 3 mm 5 mm can be formed on the disk s edge opposite to the first wire the notch serving as an optoswitch trigger point . The phantom can be placed close to detector DET so that the magnification is approximately one. The phantom can be rotated at a speed such that the linear velocity of first wire is about 6.0 cm s at a bottom point and about 7.5 cm s at a top point for the part of first wire within the cut out section. When wires and pass through the detector field of view FOV optoswitch coupled below the edge of disk can generate a transistor transistor logic TTL pulse which can be used to trigger the x ray pulse sequences and the composite images acquisition via control module CTR e.g. a computer .

The object e.g. the rotating wire phantom disclosed above can be imaged with seven phase temporal multiplexing. All seven phases can be equally spaced to each other with the first phase triggered by optoswitch trigger without delay. Each phase and therefore the corresponding x ray pulse can have a short predetermined duration e.g. about 10 ms . The delay between two neighboring phases pulses can be equal to this duration. Therefore the seven phases pulses can be separated from optoswitch trigger by multiples of the predetermined duration e.g. about 0 ms 20 ms 40 ms 60 ms 80 ms 100 ms and 120 ms respectively . Referring again to the multiplexing matrix is shown. As discussed above in a single row of the matrix a value of one in a particular column can indicate that an x ray pulse corresponding to that phase is on for that composite frame. Likewise a value of zero can indicate the x ray pulse corresponding to that phase is off for a given composite frame. After acquiring the seven composite images over seven motion cycles or ranges demultiplexing can be applied on the composite images to recover the seven demultiplexed phase images.

To assess the quality of the seven demultiplexed phase images the same seven phase images can be obtained in the sequential imaging mode. At each phase four x ray images can be acquired over four motion cycles or predetermined motion ranges at the same imaging conditions e.g. voltage current detector configuration and geometry except that each image can be exposed by a single x ray pulse e.g. about 10 ms . The four x ray images can be averaged to give the sequential image for that phase. Thus the doses for the sequential images and the demultiplexed images can be the same except that the sequential images can take four times longer to obtain. The seven sequential phase images are shown in . The two sets of images in have good phase co registration which indicates no loss of temporal resolution.

Compared to sequential imaging temporal multiplexing can enable imaging system to squeeze more x ray photons in a motion cycle or predetermined motion range without loss of temporal resolution thereby reducing the imaging time. In general given a sequential dynamic imaging of an object in cyclic motion where 2N 1 phases are required and each sequential phase image is averaged from N frames cycles exposed by a single x ray pulse of a given width t temporal multiplexing of dimension 2N 1 can reduce the total number of motion cycles or ranges required for image acquisition by a factor of N without loss of the temporal resolution t. This reduction in data collection time becomes particularly significant when N is large.

In summary the present subject matter provides systems and methods for reducing the imaging time for dynamic x ray imaging of an object with cyclic motion by using temporal multiplexing x ray imaging TMX . Compared to sequential imaging. TMX can achieve high temporal resolution of dynamics object in multiple phases with imaging time substantially reduced. Temporal multiplexing x ray imaging can thus be applied to a wide variety of applications including biomedical imaging and industrial non destructive testing.

The present subject matter can be embodied in other forms without departure from the spirit and essential characteristics thereof. The embodiments described therefore are to be considered in all respects as illustrative and not restrictive. Although the present subject matter has been described in terms of certain preferred embodiments other embodiments that are apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art are also within the scope of the present subject matter.

