---

title: System and method for converting a message via a posting converter
abstract: A system and method for converting a message via a posting converter is provided. At least one incoming message is received from a composition device. Characteristics of the message are determined. The characteristics include a target device to which the message is directed and an application through which the message will be presented. An appropriate template is selected for the message based on at least one of the message characteristics. The message is converted to a different format using the selected template. The converted message is provided for display on the target device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09116884&OS=09116884&RS=09116884
owner: INTELLISIST, INC.
number: 09116884
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101203
---
This non provisional patent application claims priority under 35 U.S.C. 119 e to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 266 969 filed Dec. 4 2009 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates in general to message based voice communications and in particular to a system and method for converting a message via a posting converter.

Social and inter personal communication tools have been enriched by technologies like SMS MMS and speech to text as well as web services and websites such as Twitter Facebook and MySpace. Currently inter personal communication and social networking are extremely popular with users of all ages. This phenomenon is not showing signs of a slow down.

Users of these inter personal and social communications technology tools often develop a common communication style that can style can differ across different technology tools and environments or alternatively within the same tools and environments. Factors for a change in communication style include age group geographic location of the users and local group such as a school or club. Communication between different tools or environments is not always effective or accurate. For example messages sent as an email but received as a text are often incomplete due to the size limit imposed on text messages. Accordingly users are required to adapt based on the device application or service used. Common methods of adaptation include word shortcuts word replacements icons and emoticons as well as more abstract writing styles based on the technology tool or service. For instance on Twitter a user is limited to postings of 140 words while no such limit is imposed on Facebook.

The shortcuts can include abbreviations acronyms emoticons or graphics as well as other shortcuts. For example the digit 2 can be used in place of the words to or too when sending an SMS Short Message Service message. In a further example children and teenagers might use the short code PIR which stands for Parent In Room or POS which stands for Parent Over Shoulder when communicating with friends on Instant Messenger IM to warn their friends that a parent is near. Additionally on Twitter users may use the shortcut FF which stands for Follow Friday to suggest to their readers other tweets and twitters to view and follow.

At the same time there is a growing variety of tools that people can use to post content or send messages using the above described communication tools. For example one can post entries known as tweets by various ways such as accessing the Twitter website directly using a web browser by using a variety of Personal Computer widgets or by sending SMS messages to a predefined address. One could send SMS messages to other mobile phone users by using a mobile phone by using a web service or by sending an email to a predefined email address typically provided by mobile operators.

A system and method to allow users of various communication tools and environments to bridge between their typical communication style the capabilities of the device or method they are using to send a given message or post a given posting and the expected style and grammar of the target communication tool or environment is needed.

A posting converter converts a message from one format to another based on many factors including an environment in which the message was generated and an environment in which the message is presented. Once composed on a conversion tool the message is transmitted to the posting converter which identifies one or more templates for converting the message. The converted message is then transmitted to a target tool and presented.

An embodiment provides a system and method for converting a message via a posting converter. At least one incoming message is received from a composition device. Characteristics of the message are determined. The characteristics include a target device to which the message is directed and an application through which the message will be presented. An appropriate template is selected for the message based on at least one of the message characteristics. The message is converted to a different format using the selected template. The converted message is provided for display on the target device.

A further embodiment provides a system and method for converting message content. Incoming messages are received via a first application. A template is selected for converting at least one of the incoming messages for display using a different application. The different application is associated with guidelines for presentation of the incoming message. Content of the incoming message is converted to comply with the presentation guidelines of the different application via the selected template. The converted message is provided for presentation via the different application.

Still other embodiments will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art from the following detailed description wherein are described embodiments of the invention by way of illustrating the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. As will be realized the invention is capable of other and different embodiments and its several details are capable of modifications in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and the scope of the present invention. Accordingly the drawings and detailed description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

As social networking and electronic communications increase communication standards become dependent on a particular method device or application in which the communication in transmitted. Thus each different means for communication can be associated with different communication standards which can make transmission of a message from one communication tool to another awkward. A posting converter allows users to bridge different communication tools for transmitting messages regardless of the different communication styles.

The posting converter can be a stand alone application that is located on and run by the composition and target tools as well as an online service or an application running on a network appliance . The posting converter can include conversion templates which each include information on content conversion rules style and graphical elements as well as age language and preference dependent conversion resources. Such preferences can be passed to the posting converter with the content or separately at the time of conversation or on a prior occasion. Alternatively the conversion templates can be stored separately from the posting converter such as on the composition tools target tools or other tools.

Once received the posting converter identifies characteristics of the message such as the type of target to which the message is directed an environment in which the message will be delivered a sender of the message and a recipient of the message. Other characteristics are possible. The identified characteristics can be used to locate applicable templates for converting the message from the current format to a different format that is more appropriate to the environment user or device type of the target tool. The converted message is then transmitted to the target tool. Other configurations topologies and arrangements of the above identified system are feasible as would be recognized by one skilled in the art.

The composition and target tools and network appliances can be general purpose programmed digital computing devices consisting of a central processing unit CPU random access memory RAM non volatile secondary storage such as a hard drive or CD ROM drive network interfaces and peripheral devices including user interfacing means such as a keyboard and display. The various implementations of the source code and object and byte codes can be held on a computer readable storage medium such as a floppy disk hard drive digital video disk DVD random access memory RAM read only memory ROM and similar storage mediums. For example program code including software programs and data are loaded into the RAM for execution and processing by the CPU and results are generated for display output transmittal or storage.

The conversion and target tools can include PCDs with a voice to text engine for receiving voice messages from a user and converting the voice message to text prior to transmission of the message to the posting converter. is a block diagram showing the logical structure of a PCD for use in the system of . The PCD is functionally divided into a voice message processing and control module and message storage module . The voice message processing and control module includes logic for converting analog voice signals into digitized form managing message queuing and storage and controlling voice processing functions including standby and active modes activated via an Attention button. The message storage module includes a message buffer for assembling outgoing voice messages a message queue for transitorily storing voice messages and a message store for persistently storing received voice messages. Other types of PCDs with voice to text capabilities are possible.

In a further embodiment a voice message can be generated on a PCD and transmitted to a remote service center for conversion to text. Once converted the message is then transmitted to the posting converter for further conversion into an appropriate format for presentation on a target tool. The posting converter can he located at or within the remote service center or external to the remote service center.

In yet a further embodiment the remote service center can include a call center which receives calls from users. Each user can relay a voice message to a recording system or live agent for conversion to text. Once converted the text is then transmitted to the posting converter for further conversion into an appropriate format for presentation on a target tool. The posting converter can be located at the call center or external to the call center.

Converting messages allows a user to transmit a message from a composition tool in one format for presentation to a target tool in a different format. is a flow diagram respectively showing a method for converting a message via a posting converter in accordance with one embodiment. A message is composed by a composition tool and transmitted block to a posting converter. The message can be transmitted with a designation of one or more target tools to which the message is directed. The posting converter identifies one or more appropriate templates block for converting the message. The templates can be selected based on characteristics such as the target tool sender and recipient attributes common attributes of the sender and recipient and an environment surrounding the target tool. The attributes can include age state of mind language style preferences social groups organizations memberships or social network. Other attributes and methods for identifying templates are possible. Once identified the conversion is performed using the template as a guide block . The converted message is then transmitted to a target tool block . Delivery of the converted message can occur through a local or remote file system using an operating system Application Programming Interface call using Web technology such as HTTP POST using mobile technology or as an SMS or MMS message transmitted from a PCD.

The posting converter can communicate with both the conversion tool and target tool for relaying the message. is a flow diagram showing by way of example a message flow from a composition tool to a target tool . A composition tool composes a message that is directed to a target tool . A determination is made as to whether any processing of the message is required prior to transmission. For example a user records a voice message on the composition tool for posting a tweet on Twitter. The voice message includes bought one before I left for Las Vegas. Prior to transmission to a posting converter the voice message is processed for converting to a text message. The voice to text conversion can occur on the composition tool or another tool. In a further embodiment the voice message can be converted to text using the posting converter .

After processing if necessary the text message is then transmitted to the posting converter which identifies one or more templates for converting the text message into a format appropriate for display by the target tool . The templates can be selected based on message characteristics such as the target tool application running on the target tool sender and recipient attributes common attributes of the sender and recipient and an environment surrounding the target tool. Returning to the above example the text message is received by the posting converter which identifies a template for the message based on the application Twitter.

Currently Twitter tweets are limited to 140 characters. Accordingly a wide variety of abbreviations and acronyms are used so that more information can be provided in a single tweet. A template for converting the original voice message to a tweet can include rules for abbreviating the terms one before for and Las Vegas. Other abbreviations are possible. The converted message now appears as bought 1 b4 I left 4 LV which greatly reduces the number of characters. The text message is then transmitted to the target tool for presentation via Twitter.

In a further example the voice message can be converted to an emoticon for posting on a recipient s wall in Facebook. The voice message can include thanks smiley face. The posting converter identifies a template for Facebook and converts the message to thanks . The converted message is transmitted to the recipient s Facebook page and posted on the wall. The emoticons can be identified based on a phrase code name or identification number. Other methods for identifying emoticons are possible.

Other examples for converting the format of a message are possible including filling out the content of a message such as a tweet for display using an application service or tool that allows more characters or content than Twitter. In this example abbreviations located in the tweet can be expanded to include full text for easier reading by a recipient.

In a further embodiment the posting converter may only communicate with the conversion tool. is a flow diagram showing by way of example an alternative message flow from a composition tool to a target tool . A message is composed on the composition tool . Any processing if necessary is performed on the message which is then transmitted to the posting converter . The posting converter identifies characteristics of the message to locate an appropriate template . Once located the message is converted and transmitted back to the composition tool which then transmits the message to the target tool .

In yet a further embodiment the message is composed using more than one composition tool. For example a voice message can be combined with a text message for transmitting to the posting converter. However prior to transmission the voice message can be converted to text and then the converted voice message is combined with the test message for sending to the posting converter.

In yet a further embodiment the converted message can be transmitted to more than one target tool. For example a user may wish to compose a message for posting on Twitter and sending as a text to one or more recipients. The list of recipients can be predetermined or selected by a user such as from an address book or friend list.

While the invention has been particularly shown and described as referenced to the embodiments thereof those skilled in the art will understand that the foregoing and other changes in form and detail may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

