---

title: Combinatorial optimization of multiple resources across a set of cloud-based networks
abstract: Embodiments relate to combinatorial optimization of multiple resources across a set of cloud-based networks. In aspects, a set of usage histories can store patterns for users in a host cloud-based network recording the consumption of processor, memory, storage, operating system, application, or other resources subscribed to by the user. The user can be a corporation or other collective user. A deployment engine can identify similar target resources available in a set of target clouds. The engine can receive selection criteria for selecting target clouds for a migration of the user's deployment. In the combinatorial selection, each target cloud can independently supply one or more target resources. The engine can thus identify a series of combinations of target resources and target clouds supplying those resources to discover combinations of target clouds and target resources that can satisfy or optimize the selection criteria, such as cost or others.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08924539&OS=08924539&RS=08924539
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 08924539
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101124
---
The invention relates generally to systems and methods for the combinatorial optimization of multiple resources across a set of cloud based networks and more particularly to platforms and techniques for discovering optimized or otherwise preferred or desired combinations of clouds from which multiple or diverse processing memory storage and or other resources can be migrated and subscribed based on the usage history of a user.

The advent of cloud based computing architectures has opened new possibilities for the rapid and scalable deployment of virtual Web stores media outlets social networking sites and many other on line sites or services. In general a cloud based architecture deploys a set of hosted resources such as processors operating systems software and other components that can be combined together to form virtual machines. A user or customer can request the instantiation of a virtual machine or set of machines from those resources from a central server or cloud management system to perform intended tasks services or applications. For example a user may wish to set up and instantiate a virtual server from the cloud to create a storefront to market products or services on a temporary basis for instance to sell tickets to or merchandise for an upcoming sports or musical performance. The user can subscribe to the set of resources needed to build and run the set of instantiated virtual machines on a comparatively short term basis such as hours or days for their intended application.

Typically when a user utilizes a cloud the user must track the software applications executed in the cloud and or processes instantiated in the cloud. For example the user must track the cloud processes to ensure that the correct cloud processes have been instantiated that the cloud processes are functioning properly and or efficiently that the cloud is providing sufficient resources to the cloud processes and so forth. Due in part to the user s requirements and overall usage of the cloud the user may have many applications and or processes instantiated in a cloud at any given instant and the user s deployment of virtual machines software and other resources can change dynamically over time. In cases the user may also utilize multiple independent clouds to support the user s cloud deployment. That user may further instantiate and use multiple applications or other software or services inside or across multiple of those cloud boundaries and those resources may be used or consumed by multiple or differing end user groups in those different cloud networks.

In terms of deployment analysis a cloud operator or other entity may collect and store the usage history of a user reflecting their consumption of processor memory application and or other resources in a host or existing cloud. The operator of a further cloud the user themselves and or other entity may wish to explore the possible migration of those subscribed resources to a set of new target clouds. The user or other entity performing that migration analysis may wish to explore those possible deployments on a combinatorial or mix and match basis for instance to achieve the best possible cost ratio for processor and memory while achieving the greatest possible redundancy for storage capabilities at the same time. When presented with more complex deployment choices existing cloud tools do not permit or do not assist a user with the task of evaluating a range of possible different cloud resource combinations over diverse cloud sets on a comprehensive basis. It may be desirable to provide systems and methods for combinatorial optimization of multiple resources across a set of cloud based networks in which cloud related tools and resources can perform a discovery and evaluation process to determine combinatorially optimized groupings of individual resources and corresponding clouds to present the user with the best available or preferred combined target choices in their cloud deployment options.

Embodiments described herein can be implemented in or supported by a cloud network architecture. As used herein a cloud can comprise a collection of hardware software services and or resources that can be invoked to instantiate a virtual machine process or other resource for a limited or defined duration. As shown for example in the collection of resources supporting a cloud can at a hardware level comprise a set of resource servers configured to deliver computing components needed to instantiate a virtual machine process service or other resource. For example one group of resource servers in set of resource servers can host and serve an operating system and or components utilities or interfaces related to that operating system to deliver to a virtual target and instantiate that machine with an image of that operating system. Another group of servers in set of resource servers can accept requests to host computing cycles or processor time memory allocations communications ports or links and or other resources to supply a defined level of processing power or throughput for a virtual machine. A further group of resource servers in set of resource servers can host and serve applications or other software to load on an instantiation of a virtual machine such as an email client a browser application a messaging application or other applications software or services. Other types of resource servers can be used to support one or more clouds .

In embodiments the entire set of resource servers and or other hardware or software resources used to support one or more clouds along with the set of instantiated virtual machines can be managed by a cloud management system . The cloud management system can comprise a dedicated or centralized server and or other software hardware services and network tools that communicate via network such as the Internet or other public or private network with all servers in set of resource servers to manage the cloud and its operation. To instantiate a new or updated set of virtual machines a user can transmit an instantiation request to the cloud management system for the particular type of virtual machine they wish to invoke for their intended application. A user can for instance make a request to instantiate a set of virtual machines configured for email messaging or other applications from the cloud . The virtual machines can be instantiated as virtual client machines virtual appliance machines consisting of special purpose or dedicated task machines as understood in the art and or as other virtual machines or entities. The request to invoke and instantiate the desired complement of virtual machines can be received and processed by the cloud management system which identifies the type of virtual machine process or other resource being requested in that platform s associated cloud. The cloud management system can then identify the collection of hardware software service and or other resources necessary to instantiate that complement of virtual machines or other resources. In embodiments the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources can for example and as noted comprise virtual transaction servers used to support Web storefronts Web pages and or other transaction sites.

In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify a variety of parameters defining the operation of the set of virtual machines to be invoked. The instantiation request for example can specify a defined period of time for which the instantiated collection of machines services or processes is needed. The period of time can be for example an hour a day a month or other interval of time. In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify the instantiation of a set of virtual machines or processes on a task basis rather than for a predetermined amount or interval of time. For instance a user could request a set of virtual provisioning servers and other resources until a target software update is completed on a population of corporate or other machines. The user s instantiation request can in further regards specify other parameters that define the configuration and operation of the set of virtual machines or other instantiated resources. For example the request can specify a specific minimum or maximum amount of processing power or input output I O throughput that the user wishes to be available to each instance of the virtual machine or other resource. In embodiments the requesting user can for instance specify a service level agreement SLA acceptable for their desired set of applications or services. Other parameters and settings can be used to instantiate and operate a set of virtual machines software and other resources in the host clouds. One skilled in the art will realize that the user s request can likewise include combinations of the foregoing exemplary parameters and others. It may be noted that user herein can include a network level user or subscriber to cloud based networks such as a corporation government entity educational institution and or other entity including individual users and groups of users.

When the request to instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources has been received and the necessary resources to build those machines or resources have been identified the cloud management system can communicate with one or more set of resource servers to locate resources to supply the required components. Generally the cloud management system can select servers from the diverse set of resource servers to assemble the various components needed to build the requested set of virtual machines services or other resources. It may be noted that in some embodiments permanent storage such as optical storage or hard disk arrays may or may not be included or located within the set of resource servers available to the cloud management system since the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources may be intended to operate on a purely transient or temporary basis. In embodiments other hardware software or other resources not strictly located or hosted in one or more clouds can be accessed and leveraged as needed. For example other software or services that are provided outside of one or more clouds acting as hosts and are instead hosted by third parties outside the boundaries of those clouds can be invoked by in cloud virtual machines or users. For further example other non cloud hardware and or storage services can be utilized as an extension to the one or more clouds acting as hosts or native clouds for instance on an on demand subscribed or event triggered basis.

With the resource requirements identified for building a network of virtual machines the cloud management system can extract and build the set of virtual machines or other resources on a dynamic on demand basis. For example one set of resource servers may respond to an instantiation request for a given quantity of processor cycles with an offer to deliver that computational power immediately and guaranteed for the next hour or day. A further set of resource servers can offer to immediately supply communication bandwidth for example on a guaranteed minimum or best efforts basis for instance over a defined window of time. In other embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources can be built on a batch basis or at a particular future time. For example a set of resource servers may respond to a request for instantiation of virtual machines at a programmed time with an offer to deliver the specified quantity of processor cycles within a specific amount of time such as the next 12 hours. Other timing and resource configurations are possible.

After interrogating and receiving resource commitments from the set of resource servers the cloud management system can select a group of servers in the set of resource servers that match or best match the instantiation request for each component needed to build the user s requested virtual machine service or other resource. The cloud management system for the one or more clouds acting as the destination for the virtual machines can then coordinate the integration of the identified group of servers from the set of resource servers to build and launch the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. The cloud management system can track the identified group of servers selected from the set of resource servers or other distributed resources that are dynamically or temporarily combined to produce and manage the requested virtual machine population services or other cloud based resources.

In embodiments the cloud management system can generate a resource aggregation table or other record that identifies the various selected sets of resource servers in set of resource servers that will be used to supply the components of the set of instantiated virtual machines services or processes. The selected sets of resource servers can be identified by unique identifiers such as for instance Internet protocol IP addresses or other addresses. In aspects different sets of servers in set of resource servers can be selected to deliver different resources to different users and or for different applications. The cloud management system can register the finalized group of servers in the set resource servers contributing to or otherwise supporting the set of instantiated machines services or processes.

The cloud management system can then set up and launch the initiation process to instantiate the virtual machines processes services and or other resources to be hosted and delivered from the one or more clouds . The cloud management system can for instance transmit an instantiation command or instruction to the registered group of servers in the set of resource servers . The cloud management system can receive a confirmation message back from each registered server in set of resource servers indicating a status or state regarding the provisioning of their respective resources. Various registered resource servers may confirm for example the availability of a dedicated amount of processor cycles amounts of electronic memory communications bandwidth services and or applications or other software prepared to be served and delivered.

As shown for example in after coordination of the sources and configuration of resources including the hardware layer selected software and or other resources the cloud management system can then instantiate a set of virtual machines and or other appliances services processes and or entities based on the resources supplied by servers within set of resource servers registered to support the one or more clouds in a multiple cloud network . According to aspects cloud management system can access or interact with a virtualization module platform or service to instantiate and operate set of virtual machines such as the KERNAL BASED VIRTUAL MACHINE KVM available from RED HAT INC. of Raleigh N.C. or others. In embodiments the cloud management system can instantiate a given number for example 10 500 1000 20 000 or other numbers or instances of virtual machines to populate one or more clouds and be made available to users of that cloud or clouds. In aspects users may access the one or more clouds via the Internet or other public or private networks. Each virtual machine can be assigned an instantiated machine ID that can be stored in the resource aggregation table or other record or image of the instantiated virtual machine population. Additionally the cloud management system can store data related to the duration of the existence or operation of each operating virtual machine as well as the collection of resources utilized by the overall set of instantiated virtual machines .

In embodiments the cloud management system can further store track and manage each user s identity and associated set of rights or entitlements to software hardware and other resources. Each user that operates a virtual machine or service in the set of virtual machines in the cloud can have specific rights and resources assigned and made available to them with associated access rights and security provisions. The cloud management system can track and configure specific actions that each user can perform such as the ability to provision a set of virtual machines with software applications or other resources configure a set of virtual machines to desired specifications submit jobs to the set of virtual machines or other host manage other users of the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources and or other privileges entitlements or actions. The cloud management system associated with the virtual machine s of each user can further generate records of the usage of instantiated virtual machines to permit tracking billing and auditing of the resources and services consumed by the user or set of users. In aspects of the present teachings the tracking of usage activity for one or more user including network level user and or end user can be abstracted from any one cloud to which that user is registered and made available from an external or independent usage tracking service capable of tracking software and other usage across an arbitrary collection of clouds as described herein. In embodiments the cloud management system of an associated cloud can for example meter the usage and or duration of the set of instantiated virtual machines to generate subscription and or billing records for a user that has launched those machines. In aspects tracking records can in addition or instead be generated by an internal service operating within a given cloud. Other subscription billing entitlement and or value arrangements are possible.

The cloud management system can configure each virtual machine in set of instantiated virtual machines to be made available to users via one or more networks such as the Internet or other public or private networks. Those users can for instance access set of instantiated virtual machines via a browser interface via an application server such as a JAVA server via an application programming interface API and or other interface or mechanism. Each instantiated virtual machine in set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with its associated cloud management system and the registered servers in set of resource servers via a standard Web application programming interface API or via other calls protocols and or interfaces. The set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with each other as well as other sites servers locations and resources available via the Internet or other public or private networks whether within a given cloud in one or more clouds or between those or other clouds.

It may be noted that while a browser interface or other front end can be used to view and operate the set of instantiated virtual machines from a client or terminal the processing memory communications storage and other hardware as well as software resources required to be combined to build the virtual machines or other resources are all hosted remotely in the one or more clouds . In embodiments the set of virtual machines or other services machines or resources may not depend in any degree on or require the user s own on premise hardware or other resources. In embodiments a user can therefore request and instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources on a purely off premise basis for instance to build and launch a virtual storefront messaging site and or any other application. Likewise one or more clouds can also be formed in whole or part from resources hosted or maintained by the users of those clouds themselves.

Because the cloud management system in one regard specifies builds operates and manages the set of instantiated virtual machines on a logical or virtual level the user can request and receive different sets of virtual machines and other resources on a real time or near real time basis without a need to specify install or configure any particular hardware. The user s set of instantiated virtual machines processes services and or other resources can in one regard therefore be scaled up or down immediately or virtually immediately on an on demand basis if desired. In embodiments the set of resource servers that are accessed by the cloud management system to support the set of instantiated virtual machines or processes can change or be substituted over time. The type and operating characteristics of the set of instantiated virtual machines can nevertheless remain constant or virtually constant since instances are assembled from a collection of abstracted resources that can be selected and maintained from diverse sources based on uniform specifications. Conversely the users of the set of instantiated virtual machines can also change or update the resource or operational specifications of those machines at any time. The cloud management system and or other logic can then adapt the allocated resources for that population of virtual machines or other entities on a dynamic basis.

In terms of network management of the set of instantiate virtual machines that have been successfully configured and instantiated the one or more cloud management systems associated with those machines can perform various network management tasks including security maintenance and metering for billing or subscription purposes. The cloud management system of one or more clouds can for example install initiate suspend or terminate instances of applications or appliances on individual machines. The cloud management system can similarly monitor one or more operating virtual machines to detect any virus or other rogue process on individual machines and for instance terminate an application identified as infected or a virtual machine detected to have entered a fault state. The cloud management system can likewise manage the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources on a network wide or other collective basis for instance to push the delivery a software upgrade to all active virtual machines or subsets of machines. Other network management processes can be carried out by cloud management system and or other associated logic.

In embodiments more than one set of virtual machines can be instantiated in a given cloud at the same time at overlapping times and or at successive times or intervals. The cloud management system can in such implementations build launch and manage multiple sets of virtual machines as part of the set of instantiated virtual machines based on the same or different underlying set of resource servers with populations of different virtual machines such as may be requested by the same or different users. The cloud management system can institute and enforce security protocols in one or more clouds hosting one or more sets of virtual machines. Each of the individual sets or subsets of virtual machines in the set of instantiated virtual machines can be hosted in a respective partition or sub cloud of the resources of the main cloud . The cloud management system of one or more clouds can for example deploy services specific to isolated or defined sub clouds or isolate individual workloads processes within the cloud to a specific sub cloud or other sub domain or partition of the one or more clouds acting as host. The subdivision of one or more clouds into distinct transient sub clouds sub components or other subsets which have assured security and isolation features can assist in establishing a multiple user or multi tenant cloud arrangement. In a multiple user scenario each of the multiple users can use the cloud platform as a common utility while retaining the assurance that their information is secure from other users of the same one or more clouds . In further embodiments sub clouds can nevertheless be configured to share resources if desired.

In embodiments and as also shown in the set of instantiated virtual machines generated in a first cloud in one or more clouds can also interact with a set of instantiated virtual machines services and or processes generated in a second third or further cloud in one or more clouds comprising a multiple cloud network . The cloud management system of a first cloud of one or more clouds can interface with the cloud management system of a second third or further cloud of one or more clouds to coordinate those domains and operate the clouds and or virtual machines services and or processes on a combined basis. The cloud management system of a given cloud on one or more clouds can in aspects track and manage individual virtual machines or other resources instantiated in that cloud as well as the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources in other clouds.

In the foregoing and other embodiments the user making an instantiation request or otherwise accessing or utilizing the cloud network can be a person customer subscriber administrator corporation organization government and or other entity. In embodiments the user can be or include another virtual machine application service and or process. In further embodiments multiple users or entities can share the use of a set of virtual machines or other resources.

Aspects of the present teachings relate to platforms and techniques in which the usage history for a given user or users can be decomposed and analyzed to determine the usage needs patterns attributes and or other characteristics of a user s resource consumption in a host cloud and determine an optimized maximized improved and or otherwise desired set of target cloud resource combinations for potential migration of that same usage and consumption to new cloud combinations. shows an illustrative network configuration in which systems and methods for combinatorial optimization of multiple resources across a set of cloud based networks can be implemented according to various embodiments. In embodiments as shown an administrator or other user can operate a client and or other device site or service to access a deployment engine to perform combinatorial analyses studies or modeling of potential cloud migration scenarios to a set of target clouds . According to aspects the deployment engine can maintain a target resource record in a cloud store registering the set of target resources available for subscription in the set of target clouds . The set of target resources reflected in the target resource record can include merely for instance processor throughput memory amounts memory speed and or types storage amounts and or types storage backup capability communications resources such as communications ports and bandwidth operating system resources application resources security resources and or other hardware software services and or other resources deployed by or available from or in the set of target clouds .

In aspects the deployment engine can generate and present a selection dialog to the user to select different potential migration or deployment parameters configurations providers and or other alternatives or factors to be used in assessing various possible deployment combinations and results. The deployment engine can access a set of usage history data for one or more users to extract consumption data and other information related to a user s existing or historical patterns of resource consumption in a set of host clouds to which the user is currently subscribed or has in the past subscribed. The set of usage history data can for instance be stored in a cloud store associated with the cloud management system and or other local or remote database or other storage.

In various aspects the selection dialog can generate a selection dialog and or other input interface to receive a set of selection criteria from the user. The set of selection criteria can include the types categories values ranges weights and or other information or attributes related to the set of target resources to which the administrator or other user possibly including a set of network users and or other collective user base wishes to explore for potential subscription and use in the set of target clouds . In aspects the set of selection criteria can include selections such as the cost network performance level or rate type compatibility and or other details for a given resource or group of resources in the set of target clouds . For instance the set of selection criteria can present selections for and or receive user inputs for processor resources that may be specified to include criteria such as minimum 10000 MIPS millions of instructions per second x86 processor architecture minimum quad processor architecture max cost 5 cents per hour minimum uptime 99.0 and or specifications details thresholds or criteria. In aspects different resources in the set of target resources can receive different user specified criteria in the set of selection criteria for evaluation against the set of target clouds and their corresponding hosted resources.

In terms of identifying and evaluating resources in the set of target resources that match or satisfy the set of selection criteria illustrate various analyses calculations results comparisons and or other operations that the deployment engine can perform or invoke to locate or identify individual resources that meet or correspond to the set of selection criteria in the set of target clouds . In embodiments as shown in each cloud in the set of target clouds can host contain provide and or otherwise make accessible a set of target resources such as processor resources memory resources storage resources communications bandwidth and or other hardware software appliances and or other resources. In aspects as generally shown each cloud in the set of target clouds may host a different set array group or collection of set of target resources . In aspects as shown a cloud hosting a greater number degree and or other quantity of a resource can be shown with a higher bar in the bar graph representing the collection of resources present or available in the set of target clouds . In aspects the resources present or available in the set of target clouds can change over time for instance depending on the resources located and procured by the cloud management system to offer or deploy for users of the cloud.

In aspects in general the deployment engine can apply the set of selection criteria to the set of target resources hosted in each cloud of the set of target clouds to determine those clouds which host one or more resources matching or satisfying the criteria the user wishes to apply to those respective criteria. In aspects as for instance illustrated in in cases the user may specify via the set of selection criteria that they simply to do nothing other than to maximize the degree or quantity of each given resource which they wish to consider in the set of target clouds . In such cases the deployment engine can identify the cloud in the set of target clouds which maximizes the degree or quantity of each resource independently and present the user for instance via the selection dialog with a combined set of clouds and resources drawn from the set of target clouds which match the set of selection criteria to the highest degree or quantity. In cases the resulting combination of clouds in the set of target clouds and the resources to be taken from those clouds can be a unique or single set of cloud resource pairings. In cases the more than one target cloud may be able to provide the same or same to within a predetermined margin degree or quantity of a given resource so that multiple or alternative cloud combinations can generate or achieve the same maximized or best available results. In the latter case the selection dialog may present a list and or other dialog to present the user with the maximized or best available results to permit the user to consider and or choose the combination they prefer.

According to further aspects and as for instance generally illustrated in in cases the set of selection criteria may not specify criteria requesting only maximization of desired resources but instead compound and or otherwise more complex criteria. For instance a user may specify in the set of selection criteria that they wish to obtain or consider a set of processor resources capable of a range of between 1000 and 2000 MIPS per virtual machine with a minimum memory allocation of 2 Gigabytes per virtual machine each machine being allocated at least 100 Gigabytes of permanent or persistent storage with an allocated communications bandwidth of 100 Megabytes sec over port between 6 00 a.m. and 9 00 pm and at least 40 Megabytes sec over that port at other times all with a total subscription cost of not more than 15 cents per hour per virtual machine on an average basis. In cases where compound and or otherwise complex specifications are provided to match to the set of target resources available in the set of target clouds the deployment engine may perform an exhaustive search on resources cloud combinations in the set of target clouds to determine the combinations potentially satisfying the set of selection criteria . For instance the deployment engine may first determine all clouds in the set of target clouds capable of hosting or delivering processor resources in the range of 1000 to 2000 for each virtual machine. The deployment engine then may select a first target cloud to potentially host that resource and then seek out exhaustively all clouds that can host or supply a minimum memory allocation of 2 Gigabytes per machine if that first target cloud were selected to host the requested processor resources. The deployment engine may then select a second target cloud to potentially host the processor resource meeting the specified criteria then evaluate all potential combinations of target clouds to host the specified memory resources in this example a minimum or threshold of 2 Gigabytes given the hosting of the processor resources in the second cloud. The deployment engine can then continue to repeat the analysis of all combinations of clouds potentially matching one resource criterion or criteria against all potential pairing or combinations of clouds supplying all other desired resources satisfying all other criteria specified in the set of selection criteria in exhaustive combinatorial fashion. The result of that program of analysis can produce a set of combinatorially maximized cloud resource combinations as illustrated in . In aspects each potential collection of target resources and target clouds to host those resources in set of combinatorially maximized cloud resource combinations can represent a possible solution to the constraints imposed by the set of selection criteria . In aspects there may be no general unique or single set of combinatorially maximized cloud resource combinations which best satisfies the set of selection criteria but instead a series or collection of possible solutions some of which can be optimized around or based on separate variables or criteria in the set of selection criteria such as overall cost communications bandwidth expected uptime under a Service Level Agreement SLA and so forth. In regards therefore the deployment engine can produce a selection or possible combination or alternative combinations of target clouds and target resources which can variously represent an optimized maximized best available most efficient preferred as desired enhanced threshold or minimum and or otherwise selected combination of resources and clouds to host those resources in the set of target clouds . In embodiments the set of combinatorially optimized cloud resource combinations can thereby also or instead incorporate those target resource target cloud combinations representing a net benefit compared to the existing host deployment in any one or more resource or factor of the user s choosing rather than a strictly optimized or maximized set of quantities for those resources or factors.

In the deployment engine can evaluate the set of target resources located in the set of target clouds based on the set of selection criteria for a first resource such as merely illustratively processor speed or powers and generate a selection score for the first resource for each cloud in the set of target clouds . In similarly the deployment engine can evaluate the set of target resources located in the set of target clouds based on the set of selection criteria for a second resource and generate a selection score for second resource such as merely illustratively memory amount or speed for each cloud in the set of target clouds . In the deployment engine can evaluate the set of target resources located in the set of target clouds based on the set of selection criteria for each additional resource under evaluation in cases where one or more additional resources are specified and generate a selection score for each additional resource for each cloud in the set of target clouds as appropriate.

In the deployment engine can analyze the combined selection scores for the first resource and the second resource across all possible pairings of clouds in the set of target clouds . For instance different pairings of target clouds can be assigned different total scores based on a sum of the selection score for each of the first and second resource in that pair of clouds. In the deployment engine can analyze the combined selection scores for each additional resource along with the first resource and second resource across all possible combinations of target clouds in the set of target clouds as appropriate. For instance the combination of three or more target clouds can be assigned a combined selection score based on the sum of the selection score for each of the resources hypothetically hosted in one or more individual cloud.

In the deployment engine can select an optimized maximized best available and or otherwise preferred or desired combined selection score s for the first resource second resource and or additional resources and associated groups or sets of target clouds in the set of target clouds . In the deployment engine can notify the user of the optimized or otherwise preferred combinations of target clouds and resource assignments in those target clouds and or initiate migration or deployment to the set of selected target clouds to subscribe to those resources in optimized or otherwise preferred combinations of clouds as appropriate. In as understood by persons skilled in the art processing can repeat return to a prior processing point jump to a further processing point or end.

The foregoing description is illustrative and variations in configuration and implementation may occur to persons skilled in the art. For example while embodiments have been described in which the cloud management system for a particular cloud resides in a single server or platform in embodiments the cloud management system and associated logic can be distributed among multiple servers services or systems. Similarly while embodiments have been described in which one group of servers within a set of resource servers can provide one component to build a requested set of virtual machines in embodiments one group of resource servers can deliver multiple components to populate the requested set of instantiated virtual machines and or other machines entities services or resources. For further example while embodiments have been described in which a user connects to or accesses the deployment engine via one client in embodiments multiple clients portals services and or other access points to the deployment engine can be used. Likewise while embodiments have been described in which one deployment engine operates to manage the deployment activities of one or more users to a set of target clouds in embodiments multiple deployment engines and or other logic or services can perform the same or similar logic to manage deployment options. Other resources described as singular or integrated can in embodiments be plural or distributed and resources described as multiple or distributed can in embodiments be combined. The scope of the invention is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims.

