---

title: Voice message transmission and retrieval
abstract: A method and system for storing, transmitting and retrieving an audio message is disclosed herein. The invention allows a recipient to access a voice message sent by a sender by clicking on an access key in a SMS text sent to the recipient's phone. The SMS text preferably provides information on the sender and the length of the voice message. Once the recipient accesses the message, another SMS text is sent to the sender providing information on the when and how much of the voice message was communicated to the recipient. The voice message is preferably stored at a server of the system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08315361&OS=08315361&RS=08315361
owner: 
number: 08315361
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20100621
---
The present application is a continuation application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 758 009 filed Apr. 11 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

The present invention generally relates to telecommunications. More specifically the present invention relates to voice messaging using a mobile communication device.

The prior art discusses various techniques for receiving voice mail. As shown in a conventional method for creating and leaving a voice message for a recipient is generally designated . At block a caller dials a telephone number for callee the recipient . At block the caller waits for the connection to the callee or the callee s voicemail system. At block the caller listens to the callee s greeting. At block the caller listens to the voicemail instructions for the callee s voicemail system. At block the caller records the voicemail message on the callee s voicemail system and disconnects the telephone call. At block the callee receives the voicemail notification however the callee does not know from whom the voicemail message was sent and how many voicemail messages may be stored in the callee s voicemail system. At block the callee dials the callee s voicemail system and enters the callee s password to access the callee s voicemail system. At block the callee finally listens to the voicemail message from the caller. The caller is unaware if the callee has received the voicemail message and if the callee listened to the entire voicemail message.

Various improvements to the conventional voicemail system have been proposed in the patent literature.

One example is Markport Limited International Publication Number 2009 122389 for Voice Mail Processing which discloses a system that allows a user to access a voicemail message through a Short Message Service SMS and circuit switched voice channel.

Another example is Ruf et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 013 155 for Delivery Of An Instant Voice Message In A Wireless Network Using The SMS Protocol which discloses an interactive voice response system for a sender to use to send a voice message.

Yet another example is Mumick et al. U.S. Pat. No. 7 184 786 for Techniques For Combining Voice With Wireless Text Short Message Services which discloses combining speech with existing text wireless SMS to create a multimodal SMS service.

One aspect of the present invention is a method for storing transmitting and retrieving an audio message. The method includes accessing a recipient name and recipient telephone number from a contact list of a telephonic computing device of a sender. A preferred telephonic computing device is a smartphone. The method also includes creating an audio message from the telephonic computing device of the sender. The method also includes transmitting the audio message to a server over a wireless network. The method also includes receiving at the server the audio message for the recipient telephone number sent by the sender. The method also includes mapping an audio file number to the audio message. The method also includes storing the audio message in a database at the server. The method also includes transmitting a SMS to the recipient telephone number the SMS comprising a response to access the audio message in the database at the server based on the audio file number the SMS also comprising a name of the sender a telephone number of the sender and a length of the audio message. The method also includes receiving the single character response to access to the audio message in the database at the server. The method also includes telephoning the recipient telephone number with a call from the server. The method also includes confirming an answer at the recipient telephone number in response to the call from the server. The method also includes transmitting the audio message to the recipient telephone number upon confirmation from the recipient telephone number. The method also includes transmitting a delivery receipt SMS to the sender the delivery receipt comprising the time of the delivery of the audio message to the recipient and the percent of the audio message played for the recipient prior to a disconnection of the call from the server.

In a most preferred embodiment the invention also encompasses not only the receipt feature notifying the sender that the recipient has received the message but also another feature that allows the recipient to instantly reply to the sender. After hearing the audio message the recipient is prompted with to reply to this message hit the key or some other message . If the recipient hits the key then the recipient is prompted to leave a message that is sent back to the sender via SMS in the same fashion the recipient received the first message from the sender.

Having briefly described the present invention the above and further objects features and advantages thereof will be recognized by those skilled in the pertinent art from the following detailed description of the invention when taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings.

As shown in a method of the present invention is generally designated . At block a sender accesses a recipient s name and telephone number from a contact list on the sender s telephonic computing device. The system of the present invention retrieves the first and last name and the mobile phone number of the recipient from the phone contact Application Programming Interface API . The sender s first and last name and phone number are retrieved through the phone API or prompted upon first use of the client application and are sent to the service of the system. For the system to operate properly the server preferably requires the name and phone number of both the recipient and the sender. Software Development Kits SDKs for mobile phones are not standardized. Phones that include an API for third party development return contact information in records that include First Name Last Name Company Name and multiple sub records for phone numbers addresses email IM Twitter Notes profile image thumbnails etc. The types of phones can be mobile home office or others. Such preferred telephonic computing devices include the IPHONE smartphone from Apple Inc. BLACKBERRY smartphones from Research In Motion the ANDROID smartphone from Google Inc. the TRE smartphone from Palm Inc. and many more. At block the sender creates an audio message by accessing an application software on the sender s telephonic computing device and recording the audio message into a microphone of the telephonic computing device. The message is preferably recorded using the Audio SDK provided by the phone recording through the microphone and then the encoded binary sound file is transferred to the server over the wireless network and through the Internet. An alternative mechanism supported by almost any mobile phone has the sender send the contact information of the recipient to a short code over MMS SMS . Most mobile phones support a standard called vCard .vcf when sending contact information in a text message. After receiving the contact information of the person via txt msg the service of the system then calls the mobile phone of the sender and asks him or her to record a message. At block the audio message is transmitted over a wireless network to a server.

At block the server receives the audio message from the sender. The underlying protocol at the server is preferably Internet Protocol Suite Transfer Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP and the transmission protocol to receive a file is preferably a file transfer protocol FTP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or other similar protocols. The transmission protocol ranges from SIP to MGCP to FTP and beyond. Essentially any protocol is used that is designed for transmission of media files. The transmission protocol is preferably an audio binary file .caf sent over HTTP. As described above the audio file is preferably received by calling the mobile phone directly after receiving contact information .vcf over a multimedia message. The protocol at the server is preferably HTTP. However in the alternative for a legacy mobile phone mechanism the protocol is dependent on the phone carrier for transmitting audio content since the service of the system is calling the sender s phone and prompting the sender s phone for the message. At block the server maps an audio file number to the audio message. The server preferably uses the sender s telephone number the recipient telephone number and a unique message identification to create a unique key to the message. For mapping an audio file to an audio message an audio message is received and is given a unique identifier. The message is stored as a binary audio file on disk typically .wav or .mp3 . The unique identifier is stored in a database along with meta information about the sender and recipient such as the mobile phone number and name the length of the message in seconds 12.3 seconds for example queue position 1 2 3 . . . 10 . For each message being stored for a recipient the queue position is incremented. In the preferred implementation if the end user calls a DID directly instead of replying to the text message then the system maps the DID called to a queue position. For example 858.555.1200 queue pos 1 858.555.1201 queue pos 2 etc. The recipient can also get their audio message by sending the system a text message which triggers a call back with the audio message when using the text message approach the recipient is required to respond with the queue position specified by play 1 play 2 play 3 . At block the server stores the audio message on a database. Preferably a database record stores the Uniform Resource Locator URL to a file location. For storing the audio message at the database in a most preferred implementation the database stores a reference to a binary audio file encoded as .wav or .mp3. When a recipient asks the message to be played back by sending a text message to the service of the system the system looks up the message by using the caller id or mobile phone number that the text message was sent from the queue pos and calls back the mobile phone and plays back that message. Alternatively if the recipient calls a system DID then the DID is mapped to a queue pos the caller id to look up the audio message. Alternatively a database stores the binary of a file. At block the server transmits a SMS message to the recipient telephone number. The SMS preferably contains information on the name of the sender the length time of message and an access key to retrieve the message.

At block the server receives a response from the recipient to the SMS message. For receiving the response to access to the audio message in the database at the server the response preferably goes through the carrier s wireless network and eventually triggers an HTTP from the carrier to the system which communicates the text message content play 1 and the caller id of the mobile phone that made the text message. These two bits of information are used to look up the message and the system calls the number and plays back the message. At block the server telephones the recipient s telephone number. Preferably the inbound request information is matched including the recipient s telephone number and message content and that information is used to retrieve the source audio file in the database. Then a telephone call to the recipient is initiated using an Interactive Voice Response IVR system. At block the server confirms an answer to the telephone call. Preferably an answering machine detection system detects if a human being is present and not a voicemail greeting. The IVR system sends a message to the server indicating that a human being is present on the telephone call. For confirmation the audio message sent to the sender s mobile phone will have the form Recipient name listened to your 12.3 second voice message sent at date and time at date and time . At block the server plays the audio message for the recipient. Preferably the audio message is played via an IVR system. Alternatively the audio message is played using another telephonic media platform designed to send and receive telephone calls and play media content to both parties during a telephone call. The source audio format of the audio message is preferably any supported IVR or other media format including MP .WAV. or others. At block the server transmits a delivery SMS message to the sender with information concerning the time of delivery of the audio message to the recipient and the percent of the audio message listened to by the recipient. Preferably the SMS message is sent using standard SMS protocols used by wireless carriers. Alternatively an application message is transmitted to the sender s telephone using normal data protocols such as TCP IP. The SMS message sent to the sender s mobile phone will have the form Recipient name listened to your 12.3 second voice message sent at date and time at date and time .

The application software is preferably uploaded to the sender s telephonic computing device over a wireless network. The application software communicates with the server to facilitate the storage transmission and retrieval of audio messages. The sender interacts with the application software on the telephonic computing device of the sender to select a target contact record an audio message and send the message to the recipient . The recipient does not need to have the application software on the recipient s telephone. The recipient s telephone only preferably needs to have SMS capability.

The server preferably stores and manages audio messages sent by senders using the application software on each sender s telephonic computing device. In an alternative embodiment the server preferably uses an association table to correlate E.164 numbers to audio messages. For example utilizing the North American Number Plan NANP numbers for dial in access to audio messages a table such as Table One would map the audio files to NANP numbers also referred to as DIDs for retrieval by the server for playing for a recipient .

The same DID may be utilized for multiple recipients since the system would recognize a caller ID of the recipient dialing the DID to retrieve the audio message and only play the associated audio massage for the intended recipient. Specifically the server receives the telephone call to the DID. The server examines the callerID of the caller. The server searches for the DID in the table to find an audio message where there is a match for the called DID and the recipient callerID. The server then plays the audio message for the caller recipient .

The present invention provides an easier method for sending an audio message to a recipient and provides the sender with confirmation of the receipt of the audio message and what percent of the message was listened to by the recipient. For example as shown in a sender named Jessica wants to send an audio message to her sister. Jessica accesses the application on her telephonic computing device and then accesses the contact list on her telephonic computing device as shown in to find her intended recipient. As shown in Jessica scrolls down the list of menu choices and selects Record Message. Jessica then records her audio message by speaking into a microphone of her telephonic computing device. As shown in Jessica then selects Send Message and the application sends the audio message over a wireless network to the server as shown by transmission . The server maps an audio file number to the audio message and stores the audio message. The server then sends a SMS message as shown by transmission to a phone of the intended recipient. As shown in on a display of the recipient s phone the SMS message states that the recipient has an audio message from Jessica that is two minutes in length of time and that the recipient can access the audio message by clicking on the letter Y in the message. The recipient Jessica s sister clicks on the letter Y and is connected to the server as shown by transmission in . The server verifies the audio message for the recipient and plays the audio message for the recipient . The server then sends a SMS delivery receipt to Jessica notifying her that her sister heard her message at what time her sister heard her audio message and what percent of the audio message was listened to by her sister.

In a most preferred embodiment the invention also encompasses not only the receipt feature notifying the sender that the recipient has received the message but also another feature that allows the recipient to instantly reply to the sender. After hearing the audio message the recipient is prompted with to reply to this message hit the key or some other message . If the recipient hits the key then the recipient is prompted to leave a message that is sent back to the sender via SMS in the same fashion the recipient received the first message from the sender.

From the foregoing it is believed that those skilled in the pertinent art will recognize the meritorious advancement of this invention and will readily understand that while the present invention has been described in association with a preferred embodiment thereof and other embodiments illustrated in the accompanying drawings numerous changes modification and substitutions of equivalents may be made therein without departing from the spirit and scope of this invention which is intended to be unlimited by the foregoing except as may appear in the following appended claim. Therefore the embodiments of the invention in which an exclusive property or privilege is claimed are defined in the following appended claims.

