---

title: Near field electrospinning system for continuous, aligned fiber tows
abstract: A near field electrospinning system includes a spinneret that provides a plurality of fibers and a collector positioned relative to the plurality of spinnerets. The electrospinning system also includes a coagulant flowing along the collector. The coagulant is configured to receive a plurality of fibers from the spinneret(s) and move the plurality of fibers away from the spinneret(s). The electrospinning system also includes a roller configured to collect the plurality of fibers from the coagulant as a substantially untwisted bundle of continuous fibers.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08980158&OS=08980158&RS=08980158
owner: Physical Sciences, Inc.
number: 08980158
owner_city: Andover
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101007
---
The subject matter described herein was developed in connection with funding provided by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency s Contracts Management Office DARPA CMO under Contract No. HR0011 08 C 0001. The Federal government may have rights in the technology.

This invention relates generally to electrospinning and more particularly to near field electrospinning of continuous aligned fiber tows.

Electrospinning is a process that can be used to form fibers for example polymer fibers or polyacrylonitrile PAN fibers. Electrospinning systems typically include at least one spinneret which can include a needle or array of needles a high voltage power supply and a collector. The spinneret can also include a syringe in which a liquid solution e.g. a polymer solution particulate suspension or particulate melt is loaded. The high voltage power supply applies an electric field between the collector and the spinneret to extract the solution from the capillary. The electric field causes a droplet of the solution to become elongated at the tip of the needle or capillary also known as the Taylor cone. When the force from the electric field exceeds the surface tension of the liquid a jet of charged liquid is ejected from the capillary. The liquid dries in the air and the current flow migrates to the surface of the fiber. Electrostatic repulsion due to the charged surface of the fiber causes small bends or whipping that can elongate the fiber. The fiber is then collected on a collector that is grounded to dissipate the electric charge. In some circumstances the fibers are heated after collection or submerged in a rinse bath e.g. alcohol to remove residual liquid and dry the fiber.

Conventional fiber tow manufacture for example is limited to fibers having a diameter of about 10 microns or larger. Electrospinning produces fibers that are typically less than 10 microns and can be as small as 10 nm. The fiber tows produced by an electrospinning process results in a yarn e.g. tows with randomly oriented fibers.

A near field electrospinning process and device can produce continuous aligned polymer fiber tows that have diameters of less than about 10 microns. The near field electrospinning system has at least one spinneret that is positioned above a collector. The spinneret is made of a conductive material. The spinneret can include a syringe and needle or arrays of needles that are used to hold a liquid solution. A high voltage power supply applies an electric field between the collector and the spinneret to extract the solution from the spinneret. The electric field causes a droplet of the solution to become elongated at the tip of the spinneret also known as the Taylor cone. When the force from the electric field exceeds the surface tension of the liquid a jet of charged liquid is ejected from the spinneret. The liquid evaporates from the fiber and the current flow migrates to the surface of the fiber.

In the near field electrospinning system the collector is typically located less than about 2 cm below the spinnerets. Because of this relatively short distance the fiber is collected on the collector before the electrostatic repulsion e.g. from the current flow migrating to the surface of the fiber causes small bends or whipping in the fiber. Therefore the fiber in the near field electrospinning system is collected before this unstable whipping state occurs. A coagulant flows along the collector and carries the fibers away from the spinnerets and towards a roller that collects the fibers as a substantially untwisted bundle of continuous fibers.

In one aspect the invention features a near field electrospinning system including a plurality of spinnerets that provide a plurality of fibers and a collector positioned relative to the plurality of spinnerets. The electrospinning system also includes a coagulant flowing along the collector. The coagulant is configured to receive a plurality of fibers from the plurality of spinnerets and move the plurality of fibers away from the plurality of spinnerets. The electrospinning system also includes a roller configured to collect the plurality of fibers from the coagulant as a substantially untwisted bundle of continuous fibers.

In another aspect the invention features a method of forming a substantially untwisted bundle of continuous fibers. The method includes forming a plurality of fibers by near field electrospinning and receiving the plurality of fibers in a coagulant. The method also includes flowing the coagulant to move the plurality of fibers away from the near field electrospinner. The method further includes collecting the plurality of fibers as a substantially untwisted bundle of continuous fibers.

In another aspect the invention features a method of forming a substantially untwisted bundle of continuous fibers. The method includes a means for forming a plurality of fibers for example by using an electrospinning process. The method also includes a means for moving the plurality of fibers away from the means for forming the plurality of fibers for example with a coagulation bath. The method also includes a means for collecting the plurality of fibers as a substantially untwisted bundle of continuous fibers. The collecting means can be for example a collector a substrate or a winding drum.

In some embodiments the collector is positioned at an incline. The collector can be positioned on an incline of about 45 . In some embodiments the collector includes a ramp positioned relative to the plurality of spinnerets and a gutter positioned relative to the ramp. The ramp can taper towards the gutter.

In some embodiments the near field electrospinning system further includes a container positioned relative to the gutter. The container can be configured to collect the coagulant. The system further includes a first coagulant recycle that is configured to transfer the coagulant from the container to the collector.

In some embodiments the first coagulant recycle includes a chiller to cool the coagulant. The chiller can cool the coagulant to a temperature of about 0 C. to about room temperature or about 25 C. In some embodiments the chiller can cool the coagulant to about 5 C.

The near field electrospinning system can further include a container positioned relative to the gutter. The container can be configured to collect the coagulant. The system can further include a second coagulant recycle that is configured to transfer the coagulant from the container to the gutter. The system can also include a heater to heat the second coagulant recycle. In some embodiments the heater heats the coagulant to a temperature of about room temperature or about 25 C. to about 80 C. In some embodiments the heater heats the coagulant to a temperature of about 75 C.

In some embodiments the plurality of spinnerets forms at least one array that comprises about 50 to about 1 000 spinnerets.

The near field electrospinning system can further include a lower gutter positioned below the gutter. The system can also include a screen positioned in the gutter. The screen can be configured to allow the coagulant to flow from the gutter to the lower gutter.

The coagulant flow can have a Reynolds number of about 1 10to about 1 10. In some embodiments the coagulant flows along the collector at a rate of about 0.1 m s to about 10 m s.

In some embodiments the coagulant can be collected and or recycled. The coagulant can be cooled in a region where the plurality of fibers is received. In some embodiments the plurality of fibers can be rinsed.

Other aspects and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following drawings and description all of which illustrate principles of the invention by way of example only.

The near field electrospinning system includes a plurality of spinnerets a collector a coagulant flowing along the collector and a roller . The plurality of spinnerets can provide a plurality of fibers . The collector is positioned relative to the plurality of spinnerets . The coagulant is configured to receive the plurality of fibers from the plurality of spinnerets . The coagulant moves the plurality of fibers away from the plurality of spinnerets . The roller is configured to collect the plurality of fibers from the coagulant . The fibers are collected as a substantially untwisted bundle of continuous fibers.

Although the term spinneret is used throughout this application the term spinneret can be used interchangeably with the terms electrode and needle. In some embodiments the spinneret is a needle with a syringe. The syringe can be filled with a polymer melt for example. When an electric field is applied the polymer melt and fibers are extracted through the needle. In some embodiments the fibers are PAN nanofibers. In addition to PAN nanofibers a wide range of solutions or melt processable polymers can be used including for example polyamide e.g. nylon polyester and polyolefin.

Each spinneret within the array can produce a single fiber. When the fibers from multiple spinnerets are combined together a tow is formed. For example about 50 to about 1000 fibers can be combined to form a tow. In some embodiments about 20 fibers can be combined together to form a tow. In some embodiments more than 1 000 fibers can be combined together to form a tow. The substantially untwisted bundle of continuous fibers that are collected using the near field electrospinning apparatus described herein can be collected with the fibers in parallel alignment without any substantial twisting or braiding. Multiple substantially untwisted bundles of continuous fibers can be braided together to produce a thread.

The collector can be positioned below the spinneret array to collect the plurality of fibers . In some embodiments the collector is positioned at an incline. The incline can be from about 10 to about 60 although larger or smaller angles can be used depending on the application. In one embodiment the incline is about 45 .

In some embodiments the electrospinning system includes a power supply that can apply an electric field between the collector and the spinneret array to extract the solution from the spinneret array and form fibers.

The distance between a spinneret and the collector can vary depending on the specific application. For example the collector can be positioned about 1 mm to about 2 cm below the spinnerets . The position of the collector relative to spinnerets can be based on when the unstable portion of the fiber occurs e.g. when the fiber begins to bend or whip due to the electrostatic repulsions on the charged surface of the fiber . For example when an electric field is applied between the spinneret and the collector a droplet of the solution in the syringe becomes elongated at the tip of the needle or capillary. When the force from the electric field exceeds the surface tension of the liquid a jet of charged liquid is ejected from the capillary. The liquid dries in the air and the current flow migrates to the surface of the fiber. When the distance between the spinnerets and the collector is large for example greater than about 2 cm electrostatic repulsion due to the charged surface of the fiber can cause small bends or whipping that can elongate the fiber. However when the distance between the spinnerets and the collector is small e.g. less than about 2 cm the fiber reaches the collector before the whipping or unstable portion of the fiber occurs.

The coagulant can act as a flowing conveyor belt to transfer the plurality of fibers away from the spinnerets . For example when the collector is positioned at an incline gravity forces the coagulant and thus the plurality of fibers to move away from the plurality of spinnerets or spinneret array .

The coagulant can be water an organic solvent DMF isopropyl alcohol IPA acetone or any combination thereof. For example the coagulant can be 10 acetone 35 DMF and 55 water at 5 C. Table 1 shows examples of coagulant compositions.

The coagulant or the concentration of the coagulant can have an affect on both the breaking strength of the fiber and the percent of elongation of the fiber at the breaking point. shows a graph of the breaking strength and the percent of elongation of the fiber at break versus the DMF concentration. The breaking strength of the fiber increases as the DMF concentration of the coagulant increases from 0 to about 30 . The breaking strength of the fiber decreases from about 30 to about 50 DMF of the coagulant. Similarly the percent elongation at break of the fiber increases as the DMF concentration increases from about 0 to about 50 . The solvent concentrations within the coagulant can maximize both the strength of the fiber and the percent elongation of the fiber at the breaking point.

Referring to the incline of the collector can determine the rate at which the coagulant flows away from the plurality of spinnerets or spinneret array . A shallow incline for example about 10 results in a slower rate of coagulant flow then a steeper incline for example about 60 . In some embodiments the coagulant flows along the collector at a rate of about 0.1 m s to about 10 m s.

The coagulant flow can have a Reynolds number of about 1 10to about 1 10. The Reynolds number is an indication of whether the coagulant flow is laminar or turbulent and is dependent on the fluid velocity of the coagulant. Turbulent coagulant flow is typically avoided because the turbulent flow can tangle or break the fibers. Laminar flow is used to provide a steady controlled flow of the coagulant. Laminar flow can allow for controlled management of the fibers flowing in the coagulant so that the fibers are maintained in parallel alignment without breaking.

The roller can be a rotating mandrel. The roller can rotate at a rate of about 6 msec. In some embodiments the roller has both a rotational speed and a lateral movement that is used to wind the fibers . The lateral movement can allow the fibers to be wound along the length of the roller . For example the roller can have a wind pattern of about 9 rotations for every lateral movement across the roller .

In some embodiments the collector includes a ramp that is positioned relative to the spinneret array . The ramp can be positioned at varying inclines for example between about 10 to about 60 . In some embodiments the ramp is positioned between the collector and the roller . The ramp and the collector can both be positioned at inclines. For example the collector can be positioned at a shallower incline than the ramp . In some embodiments the incline of the collector is about two thirds to about one third of the incline of the ramp . In some embodiments the collector and the ramp are positioned at the same incline. The collector can also be positioned at a steeper incline than the ramp .

The ramp and the collector can be about 1 ft to about 10 ft wide. In some embodiments the ramp and the collector are about 2 ft to about 3 ft wide. The ramp and the collector can have the same width or the ramp and the collector can have different widths.

The electrospinning system includes a gutter positioned relative to the ramp . In some embodiments the gutter is positioned between the ramp and the roller . In some embodiments the gutter and ramp have the same width. The ramp can have a first width and a second width . The first width can be greater than the second width . In some embodiments the second width can be the same as the width of the gutter . The ramp can taper from the first width to the second width as the ramp approaches the gutter .

In some embodiments the collector the ramp and or the gutter have a means for maintaining the coagulant on the collector ramp and or gutter respectively. In some embodiments the collector the ramp and the gutter have the same means for maintaining the coagulant within the electrospinning system . The collector the ramp and the gutter can have different means for maintaining the coagulant within the electrospinning system . For example the edges of the collector ramp and or gutter can be raised so that the coagulant flows from the collector to the roller without being lost to the surrounding environment. In some embodiments the collector ramp and or gutter have groove around the outer perimeter to maintain the coagulant within the electrospinning system .

The flow of the coagulant can decrease in the area where the ramp meets the gutter particularly if the ramp tapers towards the gutter . This can cause the coagulant to pool at the location where the ramp meets the gutter or flow upstream e.g. towards the spinneret array instead of towards the roller . To prevent the flow reversal and or pooling of the coagulant the gutter can include means e.g. a groove around the perimeter of the gutter or holes through the bottom of the gutter to allow a portion of the coagulant to exit the gutter prior to the roller .

The electrospinning system includes a container positioned relative to the gutter . The container can be configured to collect the coagulant after the coagulant has moved the plurality of fibers through the electrospinning system . In addition the electrospinning system includes a recycle for example a first coagulant recycle which is configured to transfer the coagulant from the container to the collector and or the ramp .

The screen can be made of brass and is configured to allow a portion of the coagulant to flow through the screen to the lower gutter . The coagulant that does not flow through the screen flows with the fiber tow to the roller . The depth of the coagulant decreases across the length of the gutter and or screen . When the coagulant reaches the end of the gutter screen and or lower gutter the coagulant can be collected and or recycled.

In some embodiments the coagulation bath split mechanism can be used to transfer the fiber tow from the initial coagulant to a rinse bath without cross contamination of the coagulant and rinse bath. Contamination of a coagulant for example DMF and water with a rinse bath for example water can complicate processing and waste stream handling. Moreover each fluid the coagulant and rinse bath can be recycled separately. The tow transfer can be made across the baths without breaking the tow. For example the screen can have about a 20 open area to divert the coagulant to a lower gutter below the screen . The tow remains in the flow retained in the screen stream. The tow can then be transferred to a rinse bath not shown with a minimum flow transfer. In some embodiments about 90 of the flow of the coagulant is diverted to the lower gutter .

A surface agent can be added to the coagulant to impact the surface tension and wettability of the coagulant. A lower surface tension of the coagulant allows the fiber to immerse almost immediately into the coagulant without stretching. The addition of an alcohol based solvent to the coagulant also enhances wettability of the coagulant on the ramp and in the gutter segments of the process. The addition of the alcohol enhances fiber uniformity and process stability.

In some embodiments the first coagulant recycle includes a chiller to cool the coagulant before the coagulant is transferred to collector . The chiller for example a heat exchanger can cool the coagulant to a temperature of about 0 C. to about room temperature or about 25 C. The coagulant is cooled to slow down the diffusion of the solvent from the fiber to the coagulant. Slow solvent diffusion from the fiber results in a fiber of high density which correlates with high strength.

The coagulant can be distributed on the collector by a coagulant feed . The coagulant feed can distribute the coagulant evenly along the width of the collector . An even distribution of coagulant across the width of the collector is beneficial to maintain the plurality of fibers in the coagulant and to allow the coagulant to transfer the plurality of fibers from the collector to the roller .

In some embodiments the electrospinning system includes a second coagulant recycle that is configured to transfer the coagulant from the container to the gutter . The second coagulant recycle can also include a heater for example a heat exchanger which can heat the second coagulant recycle . In some embodiments the heater heats the coagulant to a temperature of about room temperature or about 25 C. to about 80 C. This heated rinse removes residual solvent from the fiber so that the solvent won t vaporize when the fiber is dried. If the solvent vaporizes while fiber dries the fiber can crack or develop voids.

In some embodiments the process includes collecting the coagulant step after the plurality of fibers is collected step . The coagulant can then be recycled . The coagulant can be recycled at various points throughout the electrospinning system. For example the coagulant can be recycled to the beginning of the process where the coagulant is initially dispersed or the coagulant can be recycled at any point along the path the coagulant flows to move the plurality of fibers away from the near field electrospinner.

In some embodiments the process includes cooling the coagulant in a region where the plurality of fibers is received. The process can also include heating the coagulant at a region along the path the coagulant flows.

The process can also include rinsing the plurality of fibers. The rinse can cleanse the plurality of fibers from any contaminates that may have accumulated on the plurality of fibers during the electrospinning process. The rinse can also remove the remaining coagulant from the plurality of fibers.

To obtain the approximately 3 micron diameter fiber tow an electrospinning nozzle array can be composed of multiple blunt tip syringe style needles secured to an aluminum manifold. The flow of PAN polymer to the electrospinning nozzles can be controlled using for example Argon gas pressure or a series of syringe pumps. The syringe pumps provide the ability to accurately meter the polymer flow while the gas pressure provides a more approximate meter of the polymer flow. An 8 or 10 nozzle array can be used with a 1 in. separation between nozzles at a separation distance of 2 cm from the nozzle tips to the water surface for production of 3 micron diameter fibers from 15 PAN DMF .

The fiber velocity can be calculated from the measured fiber diameter as a function of standoff position of the nozzle tip to the coagulant bath flow. is a graph of fiber diameter as a function of spinning distance with calculated fiber velocity . As shown in the fiber diameter decreases as the standoff position of the nozzle tip to the coagulant bath flow increases. In addition the calculated draw speed increases as the standoff position of the nozzle tip to the coagulant bath flow increases. Moreover to obtain a smaller fiber diameter the calculated fiber velocity can be increased.

The data in was used to ensure the coagulation bath flow was fast enough to keep the fiber in tension during travel through the downstream process. The data also confirms flow calculations and literature estimates of near field electrospinning velocities.

The process ramp and gutter coagulation bath velocity can be measured as a function of coagulant flow rate. is a graph of water speed versus water flow for an unrestricted ramp and restricted ramp and is a graph of water speed versus water flow for an unrestricted gutter and restricted gutter . provide a correlation for the coagulation surface velocity and the coagulant bath flow rate. The coagulation bath enters the ramp through an opening about 15 in. wide across the ramp above the electrospinning head. As the coagulant flows down the ramp it can be restricted by sidewalls or allowed to flow freely to the gutter. The flow is channeled from about 15 in. wide down to about a 2 in. wide flow in the gutter. The shape of the restriction can be controlled. Once in the gutter the flow cross section is narrowed further and the flow velocity speeds up. The tow alignment can be dependant upon the flow velocity and the flow velocity can exceed the nanofiber ejection velocity about 1 m s from the nozzle to the flow below on the ramp .

The electrospun fiber tow can be collected on a take up drum spinning at a rotational velocity matched to the fiber production rate. The tow take up velocity can be higher than the fiber production rate to stretch and align the nanofibers. There is a space between the gutter and the drum where the coagulant flow is diverted downward and the tow is collected on the drum. Tows with as few as eight 3 micron diameter filaments can be continuously collected on the take up drum.

The tow strength can be measured as a function of take up drum rotation speed for steady electrospinning and coagulation conditions. As the tow is stretched during take up the fibers better align within the tow and the individual filaments are stretched to better align the polymer chains. Both of these effects can increase tow strength. is a graph of tow strength as a function of take up velocity. As shown in the maximum tow strength is at a take up speed of about 1.1 m s indicating that the filaments in the tow are breaking or the stretching is weakening the tow.

A rinse step can be performed either after the tow is wound on the drum or while the tow is being wound on the drum. Pure hot water can be used to rinse the tow. Rinse temperatures can range from about room temperature or about 25 C. to about 85 C. Rinsing can be accompanied by fiber tow stretching up to four times. Stretching can be accomplished by controlling the rotation speed of the take up reel speed.

One skilled in the art will realize the invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from the spirit or essential characteristics thereof. The foregoing embodiments are therefore to be considered in all respects illustrative rather than limiting of the invention described herein. Scope of the invention is thus indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description and all changes that come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are therefore intended to be embraced therein.

