---

title: Internet television program guide system
abstract: An Internet television program guide system is provided that allows a user at a multimedia system to access information related to television programs over an Internet communications link. The user can view television program guide listings and related video stills and video clips. The user can perform database searches on the program guide listings (e.g., to search for a particular type of television program). The user can set a reminder message for a television program that is transmitted prior to the transmission time of the program. If desired, the user can select an option that directs the multimedia system to tune directly to a television channel for a selected program or to a related television program guide or movie guide service on a television channel. The user can order pay-per-view events using the system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09003451&OS=09003451&RS=09003451
owner: Rovi Guides, Inc.
number: 09003451
owner_city: Santa Clara
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100430
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 894 621 filed Aug. 20 2007 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 486 948 filed Jul. 13 2006 now abandoned which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 115 099 filed Apr. 26 2005 which is a continuation of application Ser. No. 10 735 093 filed Dec. 12 2003 now abandoned which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 287 640 filed Nov. 1 2002 now abandoned which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 09 560 207 filed Apr. 27 2000 now abandoned which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 08 938 028 filed Sep. 18 1997 now abandoned which claims the benefit of United States provisional application No. 60 032 539 filed Dec. 10 1996. All of these prior applications are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

This invention relates to the Internet and more particularly to techniques for providing television program guide information and services to a user over the Internet.

A large number of television channels are available over cable television systems and satellite television systems. Television viewers have traditionally had to consult preprinted television program listings to determine which programs were scheduled to be broadcast on a particular day. More recently television based program guides have been developed that allow television viewers to view television program listings directly on their television sets.

For example the Prevue channel is a scrolling television program listings service that a cable system operator may make available to subscribers over a dedicated cable channel. Viewers can tune to the appropriate television channel to view program listings for television programs that are currently being broadcast and are scheduled to be broadcast in the next few hours. Although the Prevue channel is a valuable service the viewer is somewhat constrained by the passive nature of the service. For example the viewer cannot view television listings for the next day or week.

As a result more advanced television program guide services have been developed that allow the service provider to deliver television program listing data to the user s set top box. The data is typically delivered over the television cable system infrastructure e.g. on a given television channel during the vertical blanking interval or over an out of band channel. Software in the set top box allows the viewer to display the television program listings on the viewer s television set.

These program guide services allow the user to manipulate the television listings by searching or sorting through the listings using criteria such as genre channel and broadcast time. An example of a such an interactive television program guide is the Prevue Express guide of Prevue Networks Inc. of Tulsa Okla. the assignee of the present invention.

Although passive scrolling guides and interactive set top box guides are useful sources of television program guide information millions of users with personal computers have not been able to obtain on line television program listings. In addition users have not been able to select from diverse options that allow the user to view promotional video clips interview segments audio clips and other multimedia material related to a given television program.

It is therefore an object of the present invention to provide a television program guide system that provides television program listings from a server to a user s multimedia system over an Internet communications link.

It is a further object of the present invention to provide a television program guide system that allows users to click on text or still images to view promotional video clips audio clips interview segments and other multimedia material related to a given television program.

These and other objects of the invention are accomplished in accordance with the principles of the present invention by providing an Internet television program guide system. A computer system having a media library and a data server is used to provide multimedia clips and related television program guide data. The multimedia material and program guide data are provided to a web server. The web server provides this information to the user s multimedia system via an Internet communications link.

The multimedia system has a processing unit for receiving information from the Internet communications link and processing such information accordingly. The multimedia system also has a video unit for receiving television signals. In a first embodiment the processing unit is based on a personal computer running a standard web browser with plug ins. The video unit is based on a television. In a second embodiment the processing unit and video unit of the multimedia system are provided by an integrated personal computer and television unit. In a third embodiment the processing unit is in an Internet capable set top box and the video unit is based on a television.

The web server may be located adjacent to the computer system and the program guide data and multimedia material provided to the multimedia system via the Internet. Alternatively the web server may be located in a cable system headend. When the web server is located in the cable system headend program guide data and other multimedia material may be provided to the web server via a satellite link. The program guide data and multimedia material are provided to the multimedia system over an Internet communications link.

Television program guide data and related multimedia information are preferably provided to the user s multimedia system in the form of one or more web pages. Because such an arrangement allows the use of the widely adopted hypertext transfer protocol http and emerging web standards a user with a personal computer can access information using commonly available web browser software. Because program guide information is distributed over the Internet the user can access this information at remote locations. For example the user can access the television program guide service while traveling by car bus train or plane from a hotel room or business meeting from a personal computer at work or in any suitable environment in which there is a link to the Internet. In all arrangements whether the user is accessing the program guide service from their home or from a remote location the system benefits from using the established protocols and standards of the Internet.

In addition because the Internet television program guide is provided as a web site having a number of linked web pages features can be easily added or deleted from the service by the service provider without directly affecting the hardware and software of the user.

Using a web site platform also allows a wide range of service options to be provided. In particular numerous media formats animation full motion video sound still images and text are supported and may be interconnected using various embedded hypertext transfer protocol links.

Further features of the invention its nature and various advantages will be more apparent from the accompanying drawings and the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments.

An Internet television program guide system is shown in . Television program information is stored in media library and data server . Media library preferably contains an array of compact disc read only memory CD ROM disks digital video disks DVDs or other suitable media for storing multimedia content. Media library contains television program clips and related interviews and reviews. The television program information stored in media library is primarily video based. Data server maintains various databases of television program information. For example data server may have a remote media database containing descriptions of videos in media library . Data server may also have a database containing information on standard titles a pay per view database containing information regarding pay per view events and a scheduling information database. Data server may have a cable system operator database containing channel lineups information on the time zone of the operator weather data for the operator s region data on the zip codes in the cable system operator s area etc. Other databases may be supported by data server as desired. The television program information in data server is primarily in non video formats.

Media library and data server are interconnected with transmission server via internal network . Media library data server network and transmission server make up computer system . Television program information may be stored on data server in a relational database format and may be stored on transmission server in an object oriented database format. A building process implemented in the C programming language can be used to periodically e.g. once a day build a temporary data set of television program information e.g. a seven day to one month data set for storage on transmission server . Transmission server also receives information for the Internet television program guide service such as weather data sports scores etc. via data input .

Television program information and related data may be transferred from transmission server to web server via communications line . Communications line may be part of an internal network or may be a standard dedicated communications line. Web server can be connected to the Internet via communications link . Communications link is preferably a telephone line or other suitable Internet communications path.

If transmission server and web server are separate devices as shown in transmission server can be used as a common data processing facility for other applications which use the type of television program data stored on transmission server . If desired the functions of transmission server and web server can be integrated in a signal machine.

Web server uses a standard protocols such as the TCP IP Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol and hypertext transfer protocol to make the television program information available over the Internet to users at multimedia systems and via communications links and . Communications links and are Internet links formed from telephone lines radio frequency RF links cable modem links satellite dish links combinations of links such as these or any other suitable internet connection paths.

Multimedia system has personal computer and may have television . Certain program guide features require that personal computer be able to control television via link which may be e.g. an infrared communications link. Link allows personal computer to tune television using control signals. Television receives television signals from input . The television signals received by input and the other television signal inputs shown in may be provided by cable television satellite television broadcast television a combination of such sources or any other suitable source of television programming signals. Internet access for multimedia system is provided via Internet communications link .

Multimedia system has an integrated personal computer and television such as the Gateway 2000 Destination PC TV hybrid available from Gateway 2000 Inc. of North Sioux City S.Dak. Television signals are provided at input . Internet access is provided via Internet communications link .

Multimedia system has an Internet capable set top box . Set top box may use the TV OnLine set top box application software of World Gate Corporation which may be implemented on set top boxes such as the CFT 2200 of General Instrument Corporation of Hatboro Pa. and the 8600x of Scientific Atlanta of Atlanta Ga. Set top box receives television signals via input . Internet access is provided via Internet communications link . Video display signals containing television and Internet information are provided to television by line .

During operation of system certain data processing functions such as user initiated searches and sorts are typically performed on web server . If desired such functions can be performed on a suitable data processing component in multimedia systems and .

Certain television guide functions require only that multimedia systems and contain web browsing capabilities. Other functions require television tuning and video recording capabilities. shows a generalized multimedia system arrangement that is capable of supporting controlled television tuning and video recording if desired. As shown in multimedia system has a processing unit which preferably contains memory for storing instructions and a microprocessor for executing the instructions. Processing unit accesses the Internet via Internet link . Video unit which may be connected to processing unit by communications line contains recording unit tuner and monitor . Television signals are received at input .

Tuner is used to select television programs from television signals on input for viewing or recording. Tuner may be controlled under the direction of control signals provided by processing unit over communications link . Television signals and Internet information can be viewed using monitor . Recording unit allows the user to make videocassette recordings of television programs. Recording unit may also be controlled by control signals from processing unit .

The operation of processing unit is determined based on the execution of instructions stored in memory in processing unit and on control inputs received from the user via user interface . Suitable user interfaces include handheld infrared remote controls keyboards pointing devices and voice recognition devices.

Multimedia systems such as multimedia system of may be used in place of multimedia systems and . Alternatively systems such as systems and may be modified to incorporate features like those shown multimedia system . For example if it were desired to provide a multimedia system with circuitry to handle video recording video recording units such as recording unit could be provided in systems such as multimedia systems and . In addition in systems such as system certain components may be used more than once e.g. tuner may be contained within both a television component and a videocassette recorder component in system .

Regardless of the specific configuration of the multimedia systems used in system the user of such a multimedia system has the capability to access television program guide information on web server . Many of the features of the Internet program guide service are available using multimedia systems with the capabilities of a modern personal computer desktop or laptop . If it is desired to use certain program guide features that rely upon controlling a tuner or recording unit the multimedia system should also have the ability to tune to a desired television program from among the various television programs provided at inputs and and have the ability to record that program automatically under the control of commands from processing unit . Additional features may also be implemented on multimedia system .

Another configuration that may be used for an Internet television program guide system is shown in . As shown in Internet television program guide system has media library and data server . Media library contains television program clips interviews and reviews. The television program information stored in media library is primarily video. Data server contains databases of television program information. For example data server may have a database containing descriptions of videos in media library . Data server may also have a databases containing information on program titles pay per view events and television program schedules. Data server may have a cable system operator database containing channel lineups information on the time zone of the operator weather data for the operator s region data on the zip codes in the cable system operator s area etc. Other databases may also be supported by data server . The television program information in data server is mainly in formats other than video.

Media library and data server are interconnected with transmission server via internal network . Media library data server and internal network make up computer system . Television program information may be stored on data server in a relational database format and may be stored on transmission server in an object oriented database format. A building process implemented in the C programming language may be used to periodically e.g. once a day build a temporary data set of television program information e.g. a seven day to one month data set for storage on transmission server . Transmission server also receives information for the Internet television program guide service such as weather data sports scores etc. via data input .

A web server is provided in each cable system headend . Cable system headend has additional components not shown for distributing cable television signals to customers in the service area surrounding headend . Providing web server in a location that is relatively close to users allows television program information to be provided to the users efficiently.

Television program information including video clips and associated television program data is transmitted from transmission server to each cable system headend via satellite uplink and satellite downlink . Each web server uses the Internet TCP IP protocol to make the television program information available to users at multimedia systems and via respective communications links and . Communications links and are Internet links formed from telephone lines radio frequency RF links cable modem links satellite dish downlinks combinations of links such as these or any other suitable Internet connection paths. Although illustrated as direct links between multimedia systems and and web server communications links and may be Internet paths that pass through extensive portions of the Internet.

Multimedia system has personal computer and may have television . Television receives television signals from input . Access to web server is provided via Internet communications link .

Multimedia system has an integrated personal computer and television such as the Gateway 2000 Destination PC TV hybrid. Television signals are provided at input . Access to web server is provided via Internet communications link .

Multimedia system has an Internet capable set top box such as the TV OnLine set top box. Set top box receives television signals via input . Access to web server is provided via Internet communications link . Video display signals containing television and Internet information are provided to television by line .

The system hardware shown in for providing television program guide Internet services is illustrative and other suitable hardware arrangements may be used if desired. Regardless of the particular hardware system that is used however the present invention preferably involves providing television program guide services and features to users over the Internet in the form of multiple web pages that use the standard hypertext transfer protocol http . In the system of web pages and associated program guide features such as searching etc. are provided using web server . In the system of web pages and associated features are provided using web server .

Because television program guide services are provided using web pages the program guide services may be accessed using standard web browsers operating on the appropriate processing unit in the user s multimedia system. For example in multimedia system of a web browser may be implemented using processing unit . Suitable web browsers include the Internet Explorer web browser of Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. and the Netscape Navigator web browser of Netscape Communications Corporation of Mountain View Calif. Such web browsers support the viewing of various types of multimedia content such as video stills JPEG or GIF files and video and audio clips AVI MOV and MPG files . If desired certain of these multimedia support functions may be provided as web browser plug ins i.e. special software modules designed to enhance the features of a web browser application . A suitable video player plug in for MOV files is the Quicktime application of Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. AVI and MPG or MPEG Motion Picture Expert Group files may be played using the ActiveMovie application of Microsoft Corporation.

An illustrative welcome page for the television program guide service of the present invention is shown in . A site map is shown in . Web browser function keys help the user at multimedia system to navigate through web pages of material such as welcome page . Users may also navigate by clicking on an image or an element of highlighted text with cursor which may be controlled by a pointing device such as a mouse or trackball. Other arrangements for selecting links may be used if supported by the user interface that is provided in multimedia system . Web browser function keys include back and forward keys that allow the user to navigate backward and forward along a browsing trail. Web browser function keys are not shown in the other FIGS. but are shown in to illustrate the types of function keys that are available with a standard web browser.

Welcome page may contain identifying logos which may be for example United States trademarks . Identifying logos allow a user to quickly associate a service provider such as the assignee of the present invention Prevue Networks Inc. of Tulsa Okla. with the Internet television program guide service. If desired welcome page can contain summary instructions that inform the user of some of the features available with the service. Other web pages not shown may contain links that point to welcome page .

Advertisements and allow a service provider to generate revenues from parties who wish to advertise products using Internet television program guide system or .

Advertisements and may be video stills may be animated or may include full motion video. Audio material can also be associated with advertisements and . For example supplemental audio information can be provided when a user clicks on advertisement or . If desired advertisements and may be linked to web sites provided by the advertising parties. The advertisements and that are displayed may periodically e.g. once every few seconds cycle through different advertisements for different advertisers.

An important aspect of the Internet television program guide service provided by system and system relates to on line television program listings and information on upcoming movies and special events. The user may be presented with a number of choices regarding the type of on line information that is available. For example the user may be presented with the opportunity to select between go local option go national option and go satellite option . Additional features of the service may be accessed after the user has selected one of these options.

If the user desires to select go local option the user may be prompted to enter a zip code for the local area of interest in box . If service is available the program guide system links the user to an appropriate the local system operator s web site based on the zip code information. If desired the user can select a local area by entering information such as a cable system operator s name the name of a city international country and city information etc. Another way in which the user may select a local service area of interest is using a map based graphical user interface. As shown in the user is presented with United States map . The user selects a state of interest using cursor . If necessary additional maps containing greater levels of detail are provided each allowing the user to make further geographical selections. Ultimately the user is presented with a local map e.g. a map that allows the user to select from several available cable system operators . In map of the user can select between three available cable system operator regions region region and region .

If no local service is available the user may be provided with a web page such as no service page of in which the user is informed that local service is not presently available in the area selected by the user. No service page may provide the user with an opportunity to submit the user s e mail address cable provider information local zip code information and comments. Information provided by the user can be used by the operator of the television program guide system to solicit participation from non participating local cable operators.

If no local service is available the user may also be provided with pick again page as shown in . Pick again page provides the user with another opportunity to select go national option or go satellite option . In addition pick again page provides the user with select a city option which is associated with a less restrictive set of program information than go local option . With select a city option the user may select a desired city using arrow key or alternatively could type the name of the city directly into box . After entering the desired city the city information is submitted to the system by clicking on submit button . Because select a city option is less localized than go local option choosing select a city option makes it more likely that there will be a set of program listings available for the user.

If service is available for the user in either the city selected in city option or the localized geographic area selected in go local option the user is presented with registration page as shown in . Registration page may contain instructions prompting the user to enter an e mail address and information concerning the user s computer equipment. As with many of the other web pages provided in connection with the Internet television program guide service of systems registration page contains an identifying logo and advertisements and .

Upon completing registration page the user is presented with local cable site page of which is customized to reflect the local geographic area or city selected by the user. Local cable site page may contain a welcome message that is customized to reflect the name of the local cable system operator.

A number of options may be presented as hypertext links to associated web pages. An image is displayed that changes as the user places cursor on top of each option . For example the image of is presented when the user positions cursor over program guide option . Different images are displayed as cursor passes over each option . The images to be displayed are stored as bitmap images in processing unit of multimedia system . This technique of presenting context sensitive images to illustrate the current position of the cursor over hypertext link options is preferably used throughout the Internet television program guide service.

Various web pages may be displayed depending on which option is selected by the user. For example selecting community events option presents the user with community events page which contains information on local upcoming community events. If desired the listed community events may be specific to the type of service to which the user subscribes e.g. cable or satellite .

Selecting cable feedback option presents the user with cable feedback page which allows the user to submit an e mail address and comments to the local cable system operator.

Selecting cable operator option takes the user to cable operator page which contains information related to the local cable system. For example by clicking on icon the user may be provided with a weekly report prepared by the cable system operator.

If the user wishes to customize the program guide service the user may click on customize option . Selecting customize option presents the user with a customization web page containing guide features that the user can customize such as channel line ups and genre specific display colors e.g. pink for sports program listings and orange for movie program listings . The customization web page may also contain user selectable options that control how the user receives reminder messages when a desired program is about to start on the user s television. The user can direct the system to provide a pop up reminder on the television screen to send the user an e mail reminder or to remind the user via a predetermined paging number etc. Customize option may be provided in any. suitable portion of the program guide service such as on a program guide listings page .

Another option that is available on local cable site page is local weather option . Selecting local weather option takes the user to local weather page . If desired a map based menu such as shown in or other user input arrangement can be used to provide the user with the opportunity to select additional cities for which weather information is desired.

Program guide option allows the user to access television program listings that can be organized by time channel and category and can be searched. Selecting program guide option takes the user to program guide menu page . Movie guide option allows the user to access channel listings for premium and pay per view channels interviews and various promotional media. Selecting movie guide option takes the user to movie guide menu page .

The user may reach program guide menu page from go national option or go satellite option . If the user selected go local option and successfully completed registration page the user may reach program guide menu page by selecting program guide option on local cable site page . The user may also reach program guide menu page via select a city option . Each of these paths to program guide menu page requires that slightly different user selections be made.

Go local option requires that a user specify a particular local region or cable system operator of interest to reach local cable site page . To reach program guide menu page from local cable site page the user selects program guide option .

Go national option requires that a user select a desired time zone e.g. eastern central mountain or pacific . To reach program guide menu page from welcome page or pick again page the user selects program guide option .

Go satellite option requires that the user select a desired satellite provider . To reach program guide menu page from welcome page or pick again page the user selects program guide option .

Select a city option requires that the user enter information specifying a particular city. When the user submits the city information by clicking on submit button the user is taken to registration page . The user reaches program guide menu page from local cable site page after completing the form on registration page .

Regardless of which option is used to reach program guide menu page information is preferably retained by the system or that indicates which selections have been made by the user. Retaining this information allows subsequently displayed program listings and other information to be automatically customized to reflect the user s selections.

As shown in program guide menu page may be constructed from two smaller web pages top web page and a bottom web page . Top web page contains graphics and text based options that are common to many different system operators. Bottom web page may contain system specific promotional materials such as pay per view video promotion . Dividing program guide menu page in this way allows system resources to be used more efficiently than would otherwise be possible because the common material in top web page can be used for more than one local cable system.

If desired television channel options and may be provided that allow the user to easily access related television channel program services. When the user selects options or processing unit sends control commands to video unit that direct tuner of video unit to tune to a television channel on which the desired program service is being broadcast.

For example if the user wishes to tune video unit to the Prevue channel the user may click on program guide television channel option . When program guide television channel option is selected processing unit directs video unit to select the appropriate television signal from television signal input so that the Prevue channel is displayed on monitor . The Prevue channel is an example of a type of program guide service that displays a scrolling list of television program titles with a concurrent display of promotional videos and advertisements.

If the user wishes to tune video unit to the Sneak Prevue channel the user may click on movie guide television channel option . When movie guide television channel option is selected processing unit directs video unit to select the appropriate television signal from television signal input so that the Sneak Prevue channel is displayed on monitor . The Sneak Prevue channel is an example of a type of movie guide service that displays promotional videos of upcoming pay per view events and premium channel offerings.

Television channel options and allow user to jump directly from an Internet based television program guide service to related program guides services provided on conventional television channels. Facilitating this type of direct link is beneficial for the user because it allows the user to avoid the cumbersome steps of leaving the Internet based service and manually tuning video unit to the appropriate channel while attempting to remember the correct channel number of the desired television service.

Options allow the user to choose how to display various program listings for the user s preselected region of interest national satellite or local . Typical options include by time option by channel option by category option and search option .

If by time option is selected the user is presented with by time page as shown in . By time page contains program listings that are organized in channel order from top to bottom and by broadcast time from left to right. In by time page the programs in program listings may be listed beginning with programs that are currently being broadcast. For example if the current time is between 1 30 PM and 2 00 PM program listings may begin with programs that start at 1 30 PM. Alternatively the programs in program listings may be listed based on a predetermined time slot e.g. morning. afternoon or prime time . If desired the closest time slot to the current time may be displayed. Program listings typically contain information for about two hours of programming.

Cursors and are used to navigate to earlier or later time periods respectively. Web browser cursors and allow the user to scroll through the program listings. The user may also navigate the program listings with time navigation buttons . For example if the user would like to view program listings that begin in the morning the user clicks on the morning navigation button . If the user would like to view program listings for programs currently being broadcast the user may click on the current navigation button . Program listings for different days in the month may be viewed by selecting the appropriate day from calendar buttons .

The user can chose between various available view options by selecting the appropriate time channel category or search button from among view buttons . View buttons take the user to the same web pages that are presented when the corresponding options of are selected. For example by channel option and channel view button are both linked to by channel page .

Another component of by time page and various other web pages provided by the present system is program information box . The contents of program information box changes dynamically depending on which program title in program listings is selected. For example the user has clicked on the entry Primal Fear in program listings of . As a result the contents of program information box reflect this selection. Program information box typically contains the program title e.g. Primal Fear the running time of the program e.g. 2 09 a brief description of the program e.g. A hot shot . . . and a description of the program type or genre e.g. drama movie . The program description may contain information on the actors in the program the director etc. Program information box typically provides a rating of the program such as a star rating e.g. three stars or the Motion Picture Association of America MPAA rating for movies or the television rating for television programs. If the user desires to view additional information relating to the selected program the user may click on closer look icon or alternatively on any portion of box which takes the user to program information page .

If desired when programs are selected by a user that are currently being broadcast direct tune button may be displayed. When direct tune button is clicked on by the user processing unit directs video unit to select the appropriate television signal from television signal input to display the selected program on monitor .

By channel page of is presented when the user selects by channel option from program guide menu page or when the user clicks on a channel view button such as channel view button of by time page . By channel page contains channel list . Channel list may be arranged in channel number order and may contain associated icons for certain channels. A user can click on each individual channel in channel list to obtain a list of program information based on the selected channel. A user can also click on a graphic or text link to a listed network s web site to be hyperlinked to that site.

When a channel is selected the user is presented with channel program list page as shown in . The selected channel in the example of is channel . In channel program list page program listings for the selected channel may be arranged in time order beginning with the current time. If programs in program listings extend into the next day the programs may be separated by date separation bar . Title bar contains information identifying the currently selected channel.

By category page of is presented when the user selects by category option from program guide menu page or when the user clicks on a category view button such as category view button of by time page . By category page contains category list which may be presented in the form of category icons . A user can click an individual category icon in category list to obtain a list of program information based on the selected category.

When a category is selected the user is presented with category program list page as shown in . In category program list page program listings may be arranged in time and channel order beginning with the current time and date. Program listings contain the channel information for each program adjacent to the program title. If a user wishes to view program information for a given channel the user may click on one of the displayed channels. The user is then presented with a program list that is restricted to programs appearing on the selected channel.

If desired the program list that is displayed in category program list page may be limited to programs appearing in the next 24 hour period. The user may view information for later days by clicking on the appropriate day in calendar buttons .

Search page of is presented when the user selects search option from program guide menu page or when the user clicks on a search view button such as search view button in by time page . Search field options allow the user to select a search field such as title actor category description rating. A search text string is entered in search text box .

After search text has been entered in search text box and one of search field options has been selected the requested search is performed e.g. by web server or web server and the user is provided with search results page of . Search results page contains program listings that satisfy the search criteria specified using search page . For example the program listings in resulted from a search for the text string Gibson in the actor search field as shown by search criteria bar .

The user may reach movie guide menu page from go national option or go satellite option . If the user selects go local option and successfully completes registration page the user may reach movie guide menu page by selecting movie guide option on local cable site page . Each of these paths to movie guide menu page requires that slightly different user selections be made.

Go local option requires that a user specify a particular local region or cable system operator of interest to reach local cable site page . To reach movie guide menu page from local cable site page the user selects movie guide option .

Go national option requires that a user select a desired time zone e.g. eastern central mountain or pacific . To reach movie guide menu page from welcome page or pick again page the user selects movie guide option .

Go satellite option requires that the user select a desired satellite provider . To reach movie guide menu page from welcome page FIG or pick again page the user selects movie guide option .

Regardless of which option is used to reach movie guide menu page information is preferably retained by the system or that indicates which selections have been made by the user. Retaining this information allows subsequently displayed program listings and other information to be automatically customized to reflect the user s selections.

As shown in movie guide menu page contains hot picks option movie cruiser option main event option and interview option . When the user selects one of these options by clicking on the associated icon the user is presented with a corresponding web page for that feature.

If the user selects hot picks option the user is provided with hot picks page as shown in . Hot picks page contains images and of popular programs for which promotional materials are available. Images and typically contain program titles. Images and typically contain actor stills. The programs for which images and are displayed may be automatically selected in accordance with their upcoming frequency on the pay per view services. The upcoming frequency may be calculated based on the number of expected occurrences of a given program in a predetermined period of time e.g. seven days . The predetermined period may be commenced starting with the current date and time thereby allowing for a seamless crossing of the monthly barrier. The information used to determine which program images are displayed is preferably customized based on the selections local national satellite etc. previously made by the user.

When the user clicks on one of images or the user is taken to program information page which allows the user to obtain additional information such as video clips and interview segments on the selected program. When a user clicks on pay per view link or pay per view link the user is taken to pay per view page which provides the user with pay per view program listings for the selected program.

When the user selects movie cruiser option the user is presented with movie cruiser page as shown in . Movie cruiser page lists the pay per view and premium channels that are available to the user based on previous selections . In particular movie cruiser page contains pay per view channel options and premium channel options .

If the user selects one of pay per view options the user is taken to pay per view page as shown in . Pay per view page contains program listings for pay per view events. Multiple pay per view programs may be simultaneously listed in a grid format or may be listed as shown in for a selected pay per view channel i.e. channel . As with several other pages page contains program information box which contains program information when a program from program listings has been selected by the user. Clicking on box or a closer look icon in box takes the user to program information page .

If the user selects one of premium channel options on page the user is taken to premium services page as shown in . Premium services page contains program listings for premium events. Multiple premium service programs may be simultaneously listed in a grid format or a single program may be listed as shown in for a selected premium service i.e. the Disney channel . Program information box provides program information for a program that has been selected by the user. In the example of the user has clicked on Pete s Dragon. Clicking on program information box or a closer look icon in box takes the user to program information page where the user can view additional information on the selected program i.e. information on the movie Pete s Dragon .

When the user selects main event option from movie guide menu page . the user is presented with main event page as shown in . Main event page lists premium or pay per view sports events and other special events. By clicking on an event e.g. event the user may be presented with an associated program information page such as page of provided that additional information on the event is available. Alternatively the user may be directly presented with pay per view order page .

When the user selects interview option from movie guide menu page the user is presented with interview page as shown in . Interview page contains still images of various subjects. As with other pages in the Internet program guide service the subjects presented on interview page are customized to reflect the user s selected type of service e.g. the user s selection of a particular cable system operator or the user s selection of national service or a particular satellite service . Accordingly images relate to interviews for the movies and other programs currently available to the user. The determination of which interview images are to be made available on interview page may be based on a calculation of the most frequently scheduled upcoming programs in a predetermined time period e.g. in the upcoming week . If desired interviews corresponding to programs hot currently available to the user may also be provided. The user may select a given interview by clicking on one of images . The user is then taken to program information page .

As shown in program information page contains detailed information on a selected program e.g. the movie Birdcage . Program information page preferably contains image which may initially be presented as a still image of the program title e.g. from a JPEG or GIF file . When a user clicks on image an associated video clip is presented. Program information page also contains title actor information and program description . Additional information may include content information and genre information . If desired information may be provided on the director year of release and other relevant items. Additional actor information may be supplied e.g. in the form of biographical information and related video clips accessed by clicking on actors .

Interview icon commentary icon and promotional clip icon represent available services. The user can view video clips of interviews on the selected program i.e. the movie Birdcage by clicking on the appropriate file type option associated with a given service. For example file options and are associated with an interview service represented by interview icon . Clicking on file option allows the user to view interview video clips using a protocol appropriate for an MOV file e.g. using the QuickTime application . Clicking on file option or allows the user to view interview video clip using a protocol appropriate for an AVI or MPG MPEG file e.g. using the ActiveMovie application . Commentary icon and promotional clip icon have associated file options e.g. MOV AVI and MPG options that allow the user to view commentary or promotional video clips for the selected program.

Program information page contains information tied to the program selected by the user on previous pages. The user may reach program information page by various paths. For example the user may select a program from program listings in by time page by clicking on the desired program title. The user may also select a pay per view or premium program from pay per view page or premium services page by clicking on the appropriate listing. When the user reaches program information page program information is provided for the selected program. Icons and other indicators are used to identify which services are available for the selected program. For example if no commentary video clips are available for a given program then the file options below commentary icon may be omitted. Similarly if no video still is available for a movie image can be omitted.

Program information page contains program listings which provide program title channel and time and date information for the selected program. In the example shown in the movie Birdcage is appearing on channel a pay per view channel on three days in the next weekly period. When the user clicks on a pay per view entry in program listings the user is taken to order page .

As shown in order page contains instructions on how to order a pay per view event. Order page also contains telephone number query box and personal identification number box . The user may place an order for a pay per view event by clicking on place order button . Information entered by the user into boxes and is used to verify the user s identity and account status. Once the user s information has been verified the selected pay per view event may be delivered to the user s multimedia system.

The way in which pay per view event orders are processed depends on the particular hardware used to deliver services to the user. Order and account verification information is generally electronically submitted to the headend cable system operator or a third party order fulfillment processor linked to the headend system. Equipment in the headend processes the order automatically and arranges for the delivery of the pay per view event to the user. Typically the headend equipment directs equipment such as a set top box or similar integrated component in the user s multimedia system to display the ordered event.

In system of web server at cable system headend may be used to receive and process pay per view orders submitted using order page . After processing the order web server can direct conventional pay per view equipment at headend to authorize the display of the ordered pay per view event using set top box .

Similar techniques for delivering pay per view events may be used with other hardware arrangements such as those shown in . If desired after web server has processed the user s pay per view order web server can communicate authorization information to processing unit in the user s multimedia system . Processing unit can direct video unit to decode and display the pay per view event from among the received television signals based on the authorization information.

Order page can be provided with user selectable options for recording programs and for reminding the user when selected programs are about to be broadcast. For example order page may contain a clickable record button. Selecting the record option by clicking on the record button directs multimedia system to record the selected program by controlling recording unit of video unit with processing unit when the selected program is being aired. Similarly order page may contain a clickable reminder button. Selecting the reminder option by clicking on this button directs multimedia system to remind the user of the upcoming selected program e.g. 10 minutes before the scheduled broadcast time by automatically tuning to the desired channel by displaying a reminder message or by issuing an audible reminder. Reminder messages may also be generated by web server or and transmitted to multimedia system by e mail.

If desired these selectable recording and reminder features can be incorporated into other pages such as program information page one of the pages containing television program listings or a page presented to the user after clicking on place order button .

When a user clicks on an advertisement typically an image in one of the web pages associated with the program guide service the user may be taken directly to a more detailed advertisement page. Alternatively the user may be taken to advertiser showcase page as shown in . Advertiser showcase page contains clickable images such as images and which are linked to more detailed advertising pages. Advertiser showcase page also may contain a advertiser logo image such as image . Text bar contains clickable text fields that duplicate the selections available by clicking on images.

The advertiser logo image in advertiser showcase page may be linked to the web site of the advertiser. For example image may be linked to a web site for UPN so that if the user clicks on image the user will be taken to the UPN web site.

If the user clicks on an image such as images or in advertiser showcase page the user is presented with advertisement page as shown in . Advertisement page contains detailed information related to the subject matter of the image that was selected from advertiser showcase page . In the example of additional information is provided on the program The Sentinel because this program was selected in advertising showcase page by clicking on image . If desired advertisement page can contain appropriate links to further advertisement pages or to the advertiser s home page.

Selecting an advertisement by clicking on its image may typically be done on any page containing an advertisement. In the example of selecting an advertisement on registration page takes the user to advertiser showcase page . Selecting an image on advertiser showcase page takes the user to advertisement page .

Completing the registration form on registration page allows the user to proceed to local cable site page . From local cable site page the user can view community events page by selecting the community events option. By selecting the cable feedback option the cable operator option or the local weather option the user can access cable feedback page cable operator page or local weather page .

If the user selects the go national option on welcome page the user is taken to program guide menu page or movie guide menu page depending on whether the user selected the program guide or movie guide option. Similarly if the user selects the go satellite option on welcome page the user is taken to program guide menu page or movie guide menu page depending on whether the user selected the program guide or movie guide option. The user can also reach program guide menu page or movie guide menu page from pick again page or local cable site page . If the user reaches program guide menu page from either pick again page or local cable site page the local area of interest to the user is retained by the system so that subsequently displayed program guide listings can be customized to the user s local area.

When the user is at program guide menu page selecting the program guide channel option tunes the system directly to program guide television channel . Similarly selecting the movie guide channel option tunes the system to movie guide television channel . Selecting the time option from program guide menu page takes the user to by time page . If a program is selected that is currently being broadcast and is therefore available for the user to view a direct tune option may be displayed on by time page or any page containing program listings. Selecting the direct tune option tunes the user s television unit directly to selected television channel .

Selecting the channel option from program guide menu page takes the user to by channel page . When the user selects a desired channel channel program list page is displayed. Selecting the category option from program guide menu page takes the user to by category page . When the user selects a desired category category program list page is displayed.

When the user at program guide menu page selects the search option search page is presented. Search page allows the user to enter search terms and to initiate a search of a program database. After the search is performed search results page is displayed.

Selecting the movie guide option from welcome page pick again page or local cable site page presents the user with movie guide menu page . If the user selects the interview option the user is presented with interview page . When the user selects an interview from interview page the user is taken to program information page to view the interview. If the user selects the hot picks option from movie guide menu page the user is presented with hot picks page . When the user selects a hot pick from the displayed images on hot picks page the user is taken to program information page to view a promotional video clip for the hot pick. If the user selects the main event option from movie guide menu page the user is presented with main event page . When the user selects a given event from main events page the user is taken to program information page to view information on that event. Alternatively the user may be taken to order page to place an order for the event.

Selecting the movie cruiser option from movie guide menu page presents the user with movie cruiser page . The user can view pay per view page by selecting the pay per view option. The user can view premium services page by selecting the premium option. Programs may be selected by the user from either pay per view page or premium services page . In either case the user is taken to program information page to view additional information on the selected program.

Program information page allows the user to view multimedia material on a given program interview event etc. The content of program information page depends on the path taken to reach program information page and the options selected by the user. Program information page contains options that allow the user to select a program to view. When the user makes such a program selection the user is presented with order page .

The foregoing is merely illustrative of the principles of this invention and various modifications can be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the scope arid spirit of the invention.

