---

title: Method and apparatus for configuring information for multiple network access providers
abstract: A computer program product that provides a graphical user interface for configuring communication information for multiple network service providers on a computer system. The program product is operable to display a network communication scene that includes edit windows and selectable options for a user to view, enter, remove, and modify configuration information for at least one network service provider, and allows the user to enter information for establishing communication with the same network service provider using at least two different communication mediums, and from several different geographical locations.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08260901&OS=08260901&RS=08260901
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08260901
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100107
---
This application is a divisional of and claims priority to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 349 737 filed Jan. 21 2003 which is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 09 235 646 filed Jan. 22 1999 the contents of each which is hereby incorporated by reference.

This invention relates to the field of information networks and more particularly to configuring communication information for multiple network access providers on a computer system to allow more efficient access to different service providers from the same computer system and from different geographic locations.

A significant development in computer networking is the Internet which is a sophisticated global wide area network WAN of computer systems. In order to send and receive messages over the Internet an individual user s computer system must be connected to a network server computer system commonly known as a server. Users may have their own server or they may subscribe to an Internet service provider ISP for access to a server. The servers are in turn connected to a backbone node which allows access to other servers thereby forming the Internet. There are many different hardware and software technologies used to connect individual users and networks to the Internet. Known connection types also referred to as communication mediums include dial up modem access Integrated Services Data Network ISDN point to point services such as T1 or 56K circuits switched technologies such as Frame Relay X.25 Switched Multimegabit Data Service SMDS Asynchronous Transfer Mode ATM wireless radio communication and traditional local area network LAN technologies such as Ethernet or the fiber distributed data interface FDDI .

The term network service provider as used in the present application refers to ISPs as well as any other providers of communication network services that may or may not be associated with the Internet.

One of the fastest growing areas in Internet usage is the individual user using access technologies such as asynchronous dial up moderns or circuit switched technologies such as ISDN. Many computer systems include a modem or serial ports that can be easily used to access networks via asynchronous dial up connections. While these devices provide the hardware for physical transport of data corresponding software routines and addressing protocols are required to pack up the data for transmission as well as determining a destination for the data in the communication network. In dial up systems the data packets are transmitted through a telephone system to a server and then through backbone nodes until they reach the destination server.

The Internet Protocol IP is a widely used method for transporting data within and between communications networks. IP combines the functions of internode linking with those of links between physical networks to provide communications paths between nodes on different networks. Each IP packet consists of a header and a payload. The IP header provides addressing and control information such as the IP version number the amount of data in the packet a destination address and a source address. The packet payload contains information such as extension headers higher level protocol headers and application or user level content. Each IP packet is treated completely independently from all others.

Higher level protocols rely on IP to perform more complex services. The two principal higher level protocols that make use of IP are user datagram protocol UDP and transmission control protocol TCP . UDP introduces a further point of delivery known as a port. A port is associated with a particular program or application that listens for information sent to that particular location. TCP also uses ports as well as packet numbering and tracking to ensure delivery or at least provide delivery error information for all messages. TCP accounts for the majority of traffic using IP in the Internet while UDP is more widely used for local area network file systems. The two protocols are part of a layered networking protocol referred to as TCP IP as shown in . Each layer has a different network responsibility. If there are two hosts on a network each host layer will communicate on a logical basis with its equivalent layer on the other host. For example the IP internetwork layer on one host will communicate logically with the IP internetwork layer on the host across the Internet. The physical communication of data occurs on the physical link layer.

To transmit and receive packets a host computer system must be connected to a server or router which determines where to send packets from that point. Each server has a unique address associated with it that allows it to be identified from among other servers connected to the Internet. TCP IP software running on the originating host computer system must therefore have access to the server s address as well as other protocol information. Further an ISP typically provides services such as electronic mail hereinafter e mail and web page hosting for clients. Configuration information such as usernames passwords and mail box account names along with communication protocol information is therefore required. This configuration information is often set up through a utility program provided in the operating system on the user s computer system. Although configuration information for some of the larger ISPs may be preset when a user purchases a new computer system this information must typically be entered by the user if they choose a local or regional ISP. Further when a user moves from one geographic location to another the ISP s local dial up access telephone number may change. Additionally a user may wish to use different ISPs and different types of connections or communication mediums such as modems ISDN and T1 links from the same computer at different times and or different locations as well as when using different application programs.

The Internet is formed of a worldwide collection of wide area networks WANs . For non dedicated Internet access via an analog dial up service traditional data and voice networks connecting any two locations typically use a local and a long distance telephone service provider. The local access provider connects a user s premises to its nearest central office where the call is then handed off to the long distance access provider. The same process is mirrored at the receiver s end where the long distance provider hands off the call to the local access provider. The hand off point on the long distance network is referred to as point of presence POP . Although a dial up connection provides the physical transport for data means to transport higher layer TCP IP protocols over point to point communications media such as modem dial up or ISDN is required.

One such protocol for transmitting IP packets over serial point to point communications links is serial line Internet protocol SLIP which was designed to operate over dedicated character oriented asynchronous lines such as RS 232. SLIP has several deficiencies such as each end must know the other end s IP address a serial line cannot be shared between SLIP and another protocol and there is no checksum added to the SLIP packets SLIP relies on error checking modems or on the higher network layers to detect errors. Another such protocol is point to point protocol PPP which is a serial line protocol that was developed to remedy known shortcomings of SLIP. PPP is primarily designed as a standards based encapsulation protocol for network layer protocols such as IP across serial point to point links. However unlike SLIP PPP was designed to support higher rates of data transfer and other known network layer protocols such as IPX AppleTalk DECnet and OSI. PPP also performs error checking via a cyclic redundancy check on each packet.

TCP IP packets are sent back and forth using IP addresses that identify the sender and receiver of the data. Each server on the Internet has a unique address associated with it that allows it to be identified from among other servers connected to the Internet. Currently IP addresses are written as four decimal integers separated by decimal points. Thus a 32 bit numeric address is written as xx.xx.xx.xx for example 128.10.2.30. To accommodate the growing number of users on the Internet an alternate addressing system is being developed to allow a greater number of IP addresses.

Since humans tend to be more comfortable when using the host name of a server instead of its numeric address a domain name system DNS has been developed. The DNS is essentially one distributed database system that provides the mapping between IP address and host names. The term distributed refers to the fact that no single site on the Internet knows all the mapping information. Each site in the distributed system maintains its own database and runs a name server that other systems across the Internet can query. The DNS is hierarchical with two or more levels that form a tree structure through the server nodes with each server being responsible for its own domain or section of the name space.

A user may have access to the Internet through one or more ISPs and one or more different communication mediums. For example ISPs that charge monthly subscription rates typically offer a free trial period to allow a user to try their service before subscribing. Additionally a user may have dial up modem access with one ISP and T1 access to another server. Currently the user must manually alter the configuration information each time a different communication medium and or different telephone access number is used. Therefore a mechanism that allows a user to store configuration information for several ISPs having different connection types and different geographical locations and to easily select one to connect to is desired.

Still further with the growing popularity of portable microprocessor based computers and personal communication systems it is desirable to provide means for a user equipped with a portable device to select from among several pre configured ISPs. If a dial up connection is used through the telephone system it is desirable to use a local telephone number to access an ISP instead of a long distance number for the ISP. In this manner several locations for the same ISP can be configured with different local telephone access numbers to connect without reconfiguring ISP information or incurring long distance telephone charges.

In one embodiment the present invention provides a computer system that allows a user to communicate with zero one or more network service providers as desired. The computer system includes a display device a user input device a communication device and a memory having a set of program instructions stored therein for configuring communication information for multiple network service providers. The program instructions are operable to display a network communication scene that includes edit windows and selectable options for a user to view enter remove and modify some or all of the configuration information for the at least one network service provider and to allow the user to specify one or more different communication mediums to connect to the same network service provider.

The program instructions provide a user interface that is operable to detect when a user touches a selectable object in the network communication scene and to display corresponding edit windows objects and information in response. For example when the user touches a services tab the program instruction display an add service button in the network communication scene. The program instructions detect when a user touches the add service button and then display a choose service window that includes objects representing services available from the network service provider. The program instructions detect when the user touches a service to add and then displays the network communication scene with the added service. The program instructions include an application programming interface that allows a user to customize the interface and to access configuration information.

Another feature provided by the program instructions is an interface to connections configured for the network service provider in the network communication scene.

Another feature provided by the program instructions is an interface for adding connections via the network communication scene. The program instructions display a window that allows the user to choose a connection type when the user touches a object for adding connections along with options associated with the connection type. The choose connection type window includes objects representing connection types available to establish communication with the network service provider. The program instructions further detect when the user touches a connection type and display the network communication scene with the added connection types.

Another feature provided by the program instructions is an interface for displaying adding modifying and removing locations configured for the network service provider and adding or removing locations where the computer system is to be used.

In another embodiment the program instructions of the present invention are provided as a computer program product for configuring communication information for multiple network service providers on a computer system.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method for configuring information for a network service provider using a graphical user interface on a computer system. The method includes displaying a network communication scene that includes edit windows and selectable options for a user to view enter remove and modify configuration information for one or more network service providers wherein the user may enter at least two different means for establishing communication with the same network service provider.

The present invention provides a graphical user interface for configuring communication information for multiple network service providers from multiple locations. Consequently a mobile user with a portable computer system has ready access to configuration information for establishing communication with several different network service providers and or the same network service provider from several different locations. Any type of communication medium such as dial up modem or wireless communication may be utilized. An application programming interface features allows configuration information to be entered with minimal user interface. The application programming interface feature also allows the user to access configuration information from external application programs and to customize the user interface by adding objects to any of the network center scenes or windows to provide further networking capabilities.

The foregoing has outlined rather broadly the objects features and technical advantages of the present invention so that the detailed description of the invention that follows may be better understood.

The following sets forth a detailed description of the best contemplated mode for carrying out the invention. The description is intended to be illustrative of the invention and should not be taken to be limiting.

Referring now to a diagram of components commonly included in computer system within which the present invention may be utilized is shown. Computer system includes central processing unit CPU which is coupled to memory input output I O devices such as display device printer and touch screen option key communication device and option card slot . Memory includes random access memory. Memory also includes non volatile memory such as read only memory or magnetic discs. CPU can be constructed from one or more microprocessors and or integrated circuits.

Display device is for example a liquid crystal display LCD having columns by 220 rows of pixels each pixel being capable of displaying one of four levels of grey. Display device may incorporate touch screen which is a touch sensitive device that overlays display device and provides signals to CPU when it is touched by a touching device such as stylus or by the finger of a user. The signals include signals indicating the coordinate location of display device where the touch occurred.

While touch screen is described herein as the position locator used with the present invention any known position locator can be used with the present invention. Other position locators which can be used with the present invention include mouse devices trackball devices thumbwheels tablets scanline sensitive stili joysticks and radio frequency digitizing devices. The term position locator refers to any device which can be used to indicate a position on the display screen.

Often the position indicated by a position locator corresponds to the location of a cursor which is displayed on the display device . However with touch screen the position corresponds to the location that is touched. Most position locators are operable in an actuated state and in a deactuated state. For example mouse devices often include a mouse button the pressing of which places the mouse device in an actuated state and the releasing of which places the mouse device in a deactuated state. Touch screen is in an actuated state while touched and in a deactuated state while not touched.

Actuating a position locator i.e. placing the position locator in an actuated state while the position locator indicates the position at which an object is displayed in display device is herein called touching the object. The touching of an object which can be effected with any known position locating device should not be confused with the physical touching of touch screen which actuates touch screen and indicates a point on display device . For example an object can be touched using a mouse device as a position locator by manipulating the mouse to indicate a position within display device occupied by the object and actuating the mouse device.

The terms drag and drop are used herein as they are generally understood in the art. An object is dragged across display device by i using the position locator to indicate a position at which the object is displayed ii actuating the position locator iii changing the position indicated by the position locator to a second position while maintaining the position locator in an actuated state and iv deactuating the position locator to thereby drop the object at the second position. With respect to dragging and dropping objects across display device while using touch screen as a position locator an object is dragged and dropped by i actuating touch screen with for example stylus at a position at which the object is displayed ii moving stylus to a second position on display device while keeping stylus in physical contact with display device and iii removing stylus from physical contact with display device to thereby drop the object at the second position. A user can use in the place of stylus any similar physical object e.g. a finger of the user to drag a graphical object across touch screen .

Option key provides signals to CPU indicating when option key is activated. Generally option key is activated in combination with activation of a location on display device . Option card slot is configured to receive an option card such as memory card .

Memory stores Magic Cap system software which controls the operation of computer system . System software includes groups of instructions which are organized as objects. During operation of system CPU retrieves the objects from memory and executes the objects to perform tasks. Computer system software includes objects which provide a graphical user interface to display device . The graphical user interface includes a navigation system which allows a user to navigate within computer system software using metaphors of physical objects. The graphical user interface allows a user to access and control system via visual presentations that are provided by display device .

Those skilled in the art will recognize that computer system encompasses all types of computer systems including personal computers midrange computers mainframes and handheld personal communicators. Note that many additions modifications and deletions can be made to this computer system when used with the present invention. Examples of this are input keyboard cache memory and peripheral devices such as mouse and printer . Computer system may be one of many computer systems connected to a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or a global information network such as the Internet .

Communication device allows computer system to send and receive data to and from any network computer system may be connected to. This network may be a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN and or a global information network such as the Internet. Suitable methods of connecting to the Internet include known analog and or digital networking mechanisms. Many different network protocols can be used to implement a network. The protocols are implemented in specialized software programs that allow computers to communicate across a network. TCP IP used to communicate across the Internet is an example of a suitable network protocol.

While the present invention is described in the context of a fully functional computer system those skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention is capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that the present invention applies equally regardless of the particular type of signal bearing media used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of signal bearing media include recordable type media such as floppy disks and CD ROM transmission type media such as digital and analog communications links as well as other known media storage and distribution systems.

Referring to computer system software includes navigation system . Navigation system allows a user to access the objects of computer system software i.e. to navigate within computer system software . Navigation system includes four metaphoric levels of navigation a first level individual object level a second level room level a third level building level and a fourth level town level . A user moves between and among these levels to navigate within computer system software . Moving between and among these levels provides the user with a context switching navigation environment.

Individual object level is the lowest navigation level and is a function specific level. Individual object level includes metaphors of familiar objects which correspond to the specific functions.

Room level is the navigation level which provides a user with options of choosing function specific objects which are included as part of the room. Room level provides access to various function specific objects using a room metaphor with each function specific object being represented as a physical metaphor for the object. Most rooms within navigation system are designated for a particular activity or group of activities. Room level provides a representation of a commonly understood volume of physical space.

Building level is the navigation level which provides a user with options of choosing various room objects which are part of the building. Building level connects the various room level objects via a hallway metaphor having doorway metaphors to represent access to the various rooms. All of the objects which are included within computer system software are included within a building having a metaphor for a home. All of these objects are accessed via the home building hallway and rooms that are connected to the home building hallway. Building level provides a representation of a commonly understood way of traveling between locations.

Town level is the navigation level which provides a user with options for choosing various building objects which are part of the town. Town level connects the various building objects via a street metaphor. The building objects represent services and information which are remote to computer system these services are accessible through communication device . Town level provides a representation of a commonly understood way of traveling between locations.

A user navigates among the objects of computer system software of computer system by stepping into lower navigation levels and stepping back to higher navigation levels. For example a user steps back from room level to get to street level or a user steps into object level by stepping into an object that is displayed in room level .

Levels are interconnected in descending object levels i.e. a number of individual objects are coupled to a single room object a number of room objects are coupled to a single town object. Building objects may include only a single room in which case room object is coupled directly to street object . Additionally individual objects may be directly accessed from either a building object or a town object in which case an individual object is coupled directly to the building object or the town object via which the individual object is accessed. Additionally hallway level may be coupled to a room level object which itself functions as a hallway like object accessing other room level objects. With this type of room object the room level object provides a way of traveling between locations in the room.

Navigation system is based on a conceptual model that includes metaphoric representations of a physical environment and physical objects within the physical environment to provide an intuitive means for a user to navigate within computer system software . In this model visual presentations of physical locations i.e. scenes are displayed on display device to provide a metaphor to a user as if the user were navigating or moving within a physical environment. As a user navigates within computer system software different scenes are presented on display device which include physical metaphors to indicate a present location within the computer system software to a user.

Referring to desk room scene is shown which is the default navigation location of computer navigation system i.e. when computer system is first powered on desk room scene is the scene which is presented on display device .

Desk room scene presents a representation of a room containing desktop . On desktop are physical metaphors of different objects which are accessible from desk room scene . For example on desktop are physical representations for telephone name card rack postcard notebook and datebook . Desk room scene also includes physical representations for other objects which are accessible from desk room scene such as clock web access icon in box out box and file cabinet . Each of these physical representations represent the function that the corresponding object performs. E.g. when telephone object is actuated a telephone function is accessed. Web access icon provides an interface for the user to connect to access a application program for interfacing with a network such as a browser program for interfacing with the well known world wide web via the Internet. Desk room scene also includes stationery drawer and overflow drawer which are presented as part of the desk metaphor. When actuated drawers provide access to more specialized objects.

In addition to the desk room scene every screen presentation including desk room screen includes title bar displayed across the top of display device and button strip displayed across the bottom of display device . Title bar and button strip are displayed at each level of navigation system .

Title bar provides user information as well as navigation control. On the left side of title bar is a scene description request icon as well as a title of the present location within navigation system e.g. desk . Activating the scene description request icon causes CPU to provide information about the present scene onto display device . On the right side of title bar is a step back description indicating a scene to where a user steps back from the present location e.g. hallway by actuating this description a user steps back to the described scene. Accordingly the step back description on title bar provides step back control which is external to the particular scene i.e. the area of display device where the metaphor is realized.

Button strip provides access to commonly used functions of computer system . Touching a button activates the touched button. Button strip includes desk button stamper button magic lamp button tote bag button tool holder button keyboard button and trash button . Desk button is activated from any navigation location to return to desk room scene . Stamper button is activated to present a catalog of stamps in a window on display device . Magic lamp button is activated to access general purpose commands the actual command options may differ depending upon the scene that is presented when magic lamp button is actuated. Tote bag button is activated to store items and move items from place to place. Tool holder button is activated to access writing and drawing tools. Trash button is activated to manipulate on display device an item that is to be removed from computer system .

Referring to hallway scene presentation includes hallway scene . Hallway scene is the scene to which a user steps back from desk room scene . Hallway scene represents a hallway navigation level object. A hallway level object is accessible from room objects by stepping back from the room level object. Additionally a plurality of room level objects may be accessed from hallway scene . Each room level object is accessed via an entrance which is represented with a metaphor of a doorway. For example desk room scene is accessed via desk doorway which sets forth a graphical representation of a desk along with the textual representation of a desk i.e. the word desk .

As with desk room scene hallway scene presentation includes button strip and title bar . Title bar shows in text that hallway scene is the present navigation level and also shows in text that downtown is the navigation level to which a user can step back. Hallway scene includes right arrow and left arrow . Arrows and allow a user to navigate throughout hallway scene by simulating movement along the hallway. More specifically when right arrow is actuated a user moves down hallway scene to the right. When left arrow is actuated a user moves down hallway scene to the left. When a user reaches one end of the hallway scene then only one arrow is displayed and only movement in the direction indicated by the single arrow is permitted.

Referring to when Internet center is selected from directory or by actuating Internet center then Internet center scene is displayed on display device . The Internet center scene includes selectable objects such Internet providers sign for changing configuration information for an ISP provider setup sign for configuring an ISP and mail rules sign for customizing electronic mail options. Internet center scene may include additional objects that allow a user to enter and modify other information regarding ISPs or to interact with a particular application program as necessary. The present invention also includes an application programming interface API that allows objects to be added and information to be entered in any Interet center scene using an application program external to the present invention. Application programs using the API can select information to use including none some or all the information associated with one or more of the ISPs. Additionally an external application program may define their own user interface for entering modifying and viewing configuration information. This is especially useful when a service requires configuration information that is not required for other ISPs.

An external application program may also retrieve configuration information associated with Internet center . Further an external application program may present a symbol or other selectable device that provides a shortcut to various scenes associated with the Internet center .

Configuration information for commonly used nationwide ISPs may come preconfigured in system software . A use may also enter configuration information for an ISP. To add a new ISP a user touches provider setup object to open a new ISP window as shown in . New ISP window allows a user to select a preconfigured ISP by touching quick setup option . A complete list of ISPs that are already configured is displayed by touching arrow . A user may enter information for an ISP that is not listed in quick setup option by touching other Internet provider option . The user touches accept button to begin entering configuration information for the selected ISP.

When a preconfigured ISP is selected using quick setup option a series of edit windows are presented on display device . shows one such edit window in which the name of the POP mailbox also referred to as a username appears in edit window . The name of the POP mailbox may be modified as known whereby the user touches the inner portion of edit window and a movable cursor appears to allow the user to change any or all of the characters. Previous button and next button allow the user to go backward to the preceding window or forward to the succeeding window. Previous button and next button are included in displays of edit windows that are intermediate other edit windows. Previous button is shown on the last of the series of edit windows.

Edit window in allows the user to modify the PPP dial up access account name while the next edit window in allows the user to modify the dial up password. A user may edit the password or choose not to store the PPP dial up password in computer system by touching ask when connect option . When the ask when connect option is selected a symbol such as a check mark as shown in appears and computer system will prompt the user for the PPP dial up password when connecting to the ISP s server. also show a done button that a user selects when finished modifying or viewing edit window information to return to Internet center scene .

Referring back to when a user touches other Internet provider option a series of edit windows such as shown in is presented to the user that allow the user to enter configuration information for a new ISP. Note that some of the edit windows namely edit windows in and Q T are the same whether quick setup option or other Internet provider option is chosen. The description provided hereinabove for and G H applies to and Q T respectively. Additionally previous button and next button function in the same manner in as described hereinabove for .

The edit windows shown in and N P are unique to the other Internet provider option . shows edit window that allows a user to enter the ISP s name. The name entered in edit window will appear in the list of preconfigured ISPs such as Internet providers sign in and when the user selects arrow in .

When a user subscribes to an ISP the ISP typically provides the user with an e mail address a POP mailbox server name a simple mail transfer protocol SMTP mailer server name and the DNS address for the ISP s server. This information is entered in edit windows and respectively as shown for example in FIGS. J and N P.

Referring back to a user may edit configuration information for an ISP by touching the ISP on Internet providers sign . A complete list of ISPs for which configuration information has been entered is displayed by touching arrow . When a user touches an ISP on Internet providers sign an interface for viewing entering and modifying configuration information for the selected ISP is presented on display device .

For example a set of interface displays as shown in may be available for presentation on display device when a user touches the ISP labeled Netcom in . Utilizing netcom scene in a user may select different types of information to view and or modify by touching services tab connections tab or locations tab . In this example Netcom scene also includes add service button rename button remove button and look up button . Add service button changes depending on the view selected while rename button remove button and look up button remain the same for each of the three views accessed by services tab connections tab and locations tab .

In this example touching rename button causes an edit window not shown to be presented that allows the user to change the name of the ISP as it is to be shown on displays such as Internet provider sign . An ISP may be removed by touching remove button . When remove button is touched a confirmation window not shown may be presented to the user to allow the user to confirm removal of the ISP from the list of preconfigured ISPs. When look up button is touched the ISP s name card not shown if one exists is presented on display device . A name card exists for each preconfigured ISP and a name address card is created when an ISP is added.

Further in this example when services tab is touched netcom scene is presented on display device . When a user touches any of the service items listed such as POP mailbox SMTP mailer or name server an edit window not shown appears that allows the user to modify corresponding information. When add service button is selected choose a service window as shown in is presented on display device . When a service in window is touched the appropriate information may be entered next to the corresponding service such as POP mailbox SMTP mailer or name server in netcom scene .

When connections tab in this example of netcom scene is touched connections scene as shown for example in is presented on display device . To change the information for any of the dial up connections listed as represented by objects such as PPP dial up object PPP dial up object or Ricochet wireless object in a user touches the object and one or more edit windows not shown are presented on display device that allow the user to modify connection information such as the country telephone number PPP dial up account name and password whether the user will be prompted for user name and password and whether a terminal window opens to allow the user to communicate directly with the dial up server. When editing PPP dial up access ask when connect option as shown in is presented to allow the user to choose whether he or she will be prompted for account name and password when attempting to establish a connection as opposed to storing the information in computer system .

Many 1SPs offer local access telephone numbers for cities nationwide and even globally. The add connect feature is an example of an interface that allows users who want to connect to an ISP when travelling to connect to a local access telephone number for the ISP and avoid paying long distance telephone charges for access time. When a user touches add connect button as shown in choose a connection type window is presented to the user on display device . The user touches one of the connection types as exemplified in by PPP dial up PC card PPP Ricochet wireless or Motorola PM100C 942. The user then enters the information for that access number in edit windows not shown that are subsequently presented on display device . Note that the application programming interface included in the present invention allows other connection types such as Ethernet or cellular digital packet data CDPD as known in the art to be added by other application programs.

The present invention may also provide a dial up terminal feature that allows a user to utilize a PPP dial up connection such as PPP dial up to communicate directly with the server. This is especially useful when connecting to ISPs that have a unique system for entering information such username and password that the user s computer system does not interface with. Once a PPP dial up connection is established an interface as shown in for opening a terminal window not shown is presented on display device . The user may then enter and receive information as though connected directly to the ISP s server to establish a connection with the server and then return to his or her own system .

Touching locations tab shown in causes connecting to from scene to be presented on display device . Connecting to from scene includes information on each connection type and corresponding information such as the dial up telephone number that has been added to the configuration information for the selected ISP. An indicator such as bullet is displayed to indicate the connection currently selected. Connecting to from scene includes information on the location where the connection is typically made such as headquarters home or Ricochet where Ricochet indicates a wireless connection . To reassign a dial up telephone number to a dialing location the user touches a location for instance headquarters home or Ricochet . This causes choose a connection window such as shown in to be presented on display device . The user touches the desired telephone number from among the choices and then touches accept button to reassign the telephone number and return to connecting to from scene .

A user may add or remove a location by touching add location button as shown in . This causes adding and removing locations window as shown in to be presented on display device . The user touches location button to access location scene shown in . A description of the location is entered in location edit window . This may be done in one of several ways including typing a name in location edit window or using stamper button to select from a catalog of location stamps e.g. home work hotel airplane that are presented in a window on display device when stamper button is activated. Location stamps not shown may be dragged or dropped in location edit window to enter the description of the location.

Location scene also includes mechanisms for entering information regarding the location such as country button calling card button local tolls button area code button dial out button and carrier codes button . Touching one of buttons through causes a window not shown to appear that contains a list of possible selections and allows the user to add remove or modify the selections. When finished the user removes the window from the display through a known mechanism such as touching a done button or an X in the upper right hand corner of the window. The current selection appears next to the corresponding button. The user may also edit the current selections using edit windows such as edit windows and

Location scene also includes done button for exiting location scene remove button for removing the current selection and options button for setting dial tone options such as volume. When done button is touched location scene is replaced by connecting to from scene .

When the user is finished entering configuration information thr a new ISP he or she may return to Internet center by touching the words Internet center on navigation bar in netcom scene .

The present invention may also allow third party developers and licensees to install one or more packages that include a self contained user interface. The packages may provide any number or type of desired features and functions. The packages may be related to a particular ISP or they may be more general and provide additional functions and features that are available regardless of the ISPs configured in the system. Feature and functions provided by a third party may be accessible by touching the corresponding ISP on Internet provider sign when the package is related to a particular ISP. Alternatively a package may contribute one or more additional objects to Internet center scene to provide a mechanism to access the functions and features of the package. For example a package may install a door not shown or a sign such as mail rules sign in Internet center scene . Touching the door provides access to a scene generated by the third party package. The third party package may combine its own unique interface as well as borrow interface elements from system software . Examples of third party packages that may be provided include packages that automatically provide or update configuration information connection types and services available from an ISP as well as alternate interactive interfaces that allow the user to view enter and modify information and access other application programs that would otherwise not be accessible via system software .

While the invention has been described with respect to the embodiments and variations set forth above these embodiments and variations are illustrative and the invention is not to be considered limited in scope to these embodiments and variations. For example to delete an ISP from Internet providers sign a user may touch the name of a particular ISP and drag it to trash truck . Each ISP has its own unique configuration information and its own mapping of locations to connections. An important feature of the present invention is that it allows user to configure several ISPs on one computer so that a user may access the Internet or any other communication network from several different geographical locations using a whatever connection types are available for the ISP. It also provides a single common mechanism for a user to set up all network and network oriented application services and to set up modify and delete configuration information using a consistent common user interface. The user may configure the same ISP for different locations requiring different local numbers . Two or more ISPs may be configured for the same or different location. Internet center provides a mechanism to easily switch between locations and ISPs. Further the present invention may accommodate various known communication mediums including telephone microwave satellite and fiber optic devices and may be implemented on a variety of computer systems or distributed as a program product that a user may install on their own computer system. Additionally the information and user interfaces presented in various windows on display device may be organized differently and function differently than shown on the accompanying figures. The arrangement of objects and sequence of edit windows shown in herein are for illustration and are not meant to limit the embodiment of the present invention to a particular arrangement or sequence. It is anticipated that the functions of the present invention may be represented in many different ways on a display. Accordingly various other embodiments and modifications and improvements not described herein may be within the spirit and scope of the present invention as defined by the following claims.

