---

title: Method and system for ranking intellectual property documents using claim analysis
abstract: The present invention provides a method and system for re-ranking search results in a patent retrieval system where the query text is derived in whole or in part from a patent claim, which may be from an existing patent or a prospective claim. The re-ranking is based on several features of the candidate patent, such as the text similarity to the claim, international patent code or other classification or subject matter relatedness or overlap, and internal citation structure of the candidates. One alternative aspect provides a re-ranker that is trained on automatically generated training data, thus obviating the expensive and time-intensive step of expert annotation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09110971&OS=09110971&RS=09110971
owner: Thomson Reuters Global Resources
number: 09110971
owner_city: 
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20100203
---
The present invention relates generally to natural language processing information retrieval and more particularly to determining relevancy of terms within documents. The invention relates to statistical weighting of terms or other aspects of documents to determine how relevant or important the term or aspect is to that document and in particular to the content of that document. Also the invention relates to processes software and systems for use in delivery of services related to the legal corporate and other professional sectors. The invention relates to a system that presents searching functions to users such as subscribers to a professional services related service processes search terms and applies search syntax across document databases and displays search results generated in response to the search function and processing.

With the advents of the printing press typeset typewriting machines computer implemented word processing and mass data storage the amount of information generated by mankind has risen dramatically and with an ever quickening pace. As a result there is a continuing and growing need to collect and store identify track classify and catalogue for retrieval and distribution this growing sea of information. One traditional form of cataloging and classifying information e.g. books and other writings is the Dewey Decimal System. In the area of patents millions of patents have issued in the U.S. alone. Each patent is issued with a set of claims that define the property right granted by the U.S. and owned by the patentee. In addition to issued patents are the growing number of published patent applications that are now available for searching and reviewing. Each published patent application likewise contains one or more claims to the invention. The U.S. Patent Office uses a subject matter based classification system to place submitted patent applications in technology centers classes and sub classes of art to more efficiently handle the searching and granting or denying of patent claims. In addition a set of International Patent Codes further classifies patents and applications by subject matter. Historically examiners assigned to examine patent applications would consult shoes i.e. a box associated with a particular sub class and containing collections of patents grouped together based on subject matter disclosed and claimed by previous inventors. Prior to electronic searching examiners would consult by hand the shoes in an effort to find prior art this was very tedious time consuming and inefficient. Electronic databases effectively place patent documents in electronic shoes for searching.

In many areas and industries including the financial and legal sectors and areas of technology for example there are content and enhanced experience providers such as The Thomson Reuters Corporation. Such providers identify collect analyze and process key data for use in generating content such as law related reports articles etc. for consumption by professionals and others involved in the respective industries e.g. lawyers. Providers in the various sectors and industries continually look for products and services to provide subscribers clients and other customers and for ways to distinguish their firms over the competition. Such provides strive to create and provide enhance tools including search and ranking tools to enable clients to more efficiently and effectively process information and make informed decisions.

For example with advancements in technology and sophisticated approaches to searching across vast amounts of data and documents e.g. database of issued patents published patent applications etc. professionals and other users increasingly rely on mathematical models and algorithms in making professional and business determinations. Existing methods for applying search terms across large databases of patent documents for example have room for considerable improvement as they frequently do not adequately focus on the key information of interest to yield a focused and well ranked set of documents to most closely match the expressed searching terms and data. Although such computer based systems have shortcomings there has been significant advancement over searching identifying filtering and grouping IP documents by hand which is prohibitively time intensive costly inefficient and inconsistent.

Search engines are used to retrieve documents in response to user defined queries or search terms. To this end search engines may compare the frequency of terms that appear in one document against the frequency of those terms as they appear in other documents within a database or network of databases. This aids the search engine in determining respective importance of the different terms within the document and thus determining the best matching documents to the given query. One method for comparing terms appearing in a document against a collection of documents is called Term Frequency Inverse Document Frequency TFIDF . In this method a percentage of term count as compared to all terms within a subject document is assigned as a numerator and that is divided by the logarithm of the percentage of documents in which that term appears in a corpus as the denominator . More specifically TFIDF assigns a weight as a statistical measure used to evaluate tile importance of a word to a document in a collection of documents or corpus. The relative importance of tile word increases proportionally to tile number of times or frequency such word appears in the document. The importance is offset or compared against the frequency of that word appearing in documents comprising the corpus. TFIDF is expressed as the log N n q where q is the query term N is the number of documents in the collection and N q is the number of documents containing q. TFIDF and variations of this weighting scheme are typically used by search engines such as Google as a way to score and rank a document s relevance given a user query. Generally for each term included in a user query the document may be ranked in relevance based on summing the scores associated with each term. The documents responsive to the user query may be ranked and presented to the user based on relevancy as well as other determining factors.

The present invention provides a method and system for re ranking search results in a patent document retrieval system where the query text is derived in whole or in part from a patent claim which may be from an existing patent. The re ranking is based on one or more features of the candidate patent such as the text similarity to the claim international patent code or other classification relatedness or overlap and internal citation structure of the candidates. One feature of the invention provides a re ranker that is trained on automatically generated training data thus obviating the expensive and time intensive step of expert annotation. In implementation the inventive concepts may be automatically or semi automatically i.e. with some degree of human intervention performed.

Inventors patent examiners agents and attorneys need a reliable patent retrieval system to for example research prior art study the validity of a patent claim or to prepare for litigation. Patent retrieval is more particular and specialized and is different from generic web searching for example in the following respects 1 query text a query in patent retrieval is often a claim which has certain fixed structure and can be quite long while typical web based search queries are very short containing few terms 2 patent documents a patent usually has a standard structure that includes fields such as a title authors application date IPC International Patent Code IPC citations an abstract technical summary and claims while web documents can have various format and content and 3 search purpose the main purpose of patent retrieval is to find existing patents that relate to a searched patent e.g. may invalidate the claims of a specified patent or patent application while web search targets to find relevant documents or answer user questions. Given these differences information retrieval algorithms associated with typical web based search engines and systems are not well suited to work for patent retrieval.

Existing approaches modify baseline information retrieval algorithms in different ways. Some modify the term weighting strategy e.g. using TF Term Frequency instead of TF IDF Term Frequency Inverse Document Frequency H. Mase and M. Iwayama. 2007. Ntcir 6 patent retrieval experiments at hitachi. 6 pages 403 406 some investigate the effect of smoothing in a statistical language model J. Kim Y. H. Lee S. H. Na and J. H. Lee. 2007. Postech at ntcir 6 english patent retrieval subtask. 6 pages 393 395 some use query expansion strategies Y. H. Tseng C. Y. Tsai and D. W. Huang. 2007. Invalidity search for uspto patent documents using different patent surrogates. 6 pages 390 392 H. Tanioka and K. Yamamoto. 2007. A passage retrieval system using query expansion and emphasis. 6 pages 428 432 H. Nanba. 2007. Query expansion using an automatically constructed thesaurus. 6 pages 414 419 Mase and Iwayama 2007 and some leverage certain fields such as citations and IPCs of a patent Atsushi Fujii. 2007. Enhancing patent retrieval by citation analysis. 30 pages 793 794 M. Aono. 2007. Leveraging category based lsi for patent retrieval. 6 pages 373 376 . Additional methods that may be employed may use latent semantic indexing LSI or other latent semantic analysis. These methods are either computationally expensive or show limited improvement over the baseline. The present invention provides a method for determining retrieving and presenting a set of patents that are most related to a patent claim based query. The invention can be used both for the survey of prior art as well as for the determination of validity of an existing or a prospective claim. In one embodiment the invention uses a baseline text based retrieval system to obtain the initial pool of candidate patents which are then re ranked based on several features derived from for example one or more of claim text title abstract preamble IPCs of the candidate patents and their internal citation structure. Another feature of the invention is the automatic generation of training data to train the re ranking classifier.

In the past different retrieval methods have been proposed for patent retrieval. Kim et al Kim et al. 2007 perform patent retrieval using a baseline language model with Jelinek Mercer smoothing. It is inconclusive whether the smoothing helps retrieval performance or not based on their results. Fujii Fujii 2007 combines two searches one is based on text retrieval with Okapi BM25 S. Robertson S. Walker S. Jones M. M. Hancock Beaulieu and M. Gatford. 1994. Okapi at trec 3. In 3 pages 109 126 and another based on citations where citation scores are computed based on the citations of the top N documents from the text retrieval. The product of the two scores is used for final ranking.

A two stage patent retrieval method is proposed by Mase et al H. Mase T. Matsubayashi Y. Ogawa M. Iwayama and T. Oshio. 2005. Proposal of two stage patent retrieval method considering the claim structure. 4 2 190 206 . In stage one the standard information retrieval method is used where the entire text of a patent is used as a retrieval target. In stage two only the claim text is used to re rank the top N patents from the first stage where the relevance score is based on a selective set of claim terms with different weighting strategies. The final relevance score is a linear combination of the scores from the two stages. In another paper Mase and Iwayama 2007 Mase et al. compare several retrieval methods where the methods use different term weighting strategies query expansion strategies and document filtering strategies. These methods show improvement over the baseline method but are computationally expensive due to the use of whole patent text and term selections.

Query expansion is another attempt to improve patent retrieval. Tseng et al Tseng et al. 2007 extend the claim query with some key terms selected from the top six documents in the initial retrieval. Nanba Nanba 2007 uses hyponyms abbreviations synonyms and related terms to expand queries. Aono Aono 2007 proposes a category based Latent Semantic Indexing LSI method for patent retrieval. Specifically their algorithm first categorizes the entire patent collection into categories based on IPC International Patent Classification followed by applying LSI to each category repeatedly. And given a query claim the top fifty patents in its most similar category are returned as the invalidating candidates.

Compared to existing methods the present invention offers among other advantages the following advantages 1 automatically learns a ranking model through machine learning known systems heuristically combine different ranking results from the multiple sources 2 automatically generates training data greatly reducing if not eliminating the expensive and time intensive step of human relevance judgment and 3 effective and efficiently computable feature set. In one implementation the present invention provides an algorithm that improves the baseline search significantly at speeds on the millisecond level.

In one alternative embodiment the invention provides a computer based system for processing a user query related to patent claim terms to generate a set of patent documents responsive to the query the system comprising a search engine executed by a computer and being adapted to receive a query and based on the query to search claims of patent documents contained in at least one database and adapted to yield a first set of candidate patent documents and a re ranking module comprising code executable by the computer and adapted to re rank the first set of candidate patent documents based at least in part on a set of features associated with the patents and generate a second set of ranked patent documents the re ranking module being adapted to weight the set of features based on a previously executed learning process. In one alternative the re ranking may be based at least in part on a set of features including at least one classification feature related to the subject matter of the claimed invention. In addition re ranking module may be further adapted to generate for each patent in the first set of candidate patent documents a set of feature scores associated with the set of features the re ranking module being adapted to re rank to generate the second set of ranked patent documents based at least in part on the set of feature scores. Also the re ranking module may be further adapted to generate for each patent in the first set of candidate patent documents a collective score derived at least in part from a set of feature scores the re ranking module being adapted to re rank to generate the second set of ranked patent documents based at least in part on the collective score associated with each patent in the first set of candidate patent documents. The set of features may comprise one or more from the group consisting of fields of a patent patent title patent abstract patent IPC code patent references patent claims rank c representing the lowest rank of any claim of a patent in the first set of candidate patents sim c c representing a highest similarity score between the query and claims in a patent in the first set of candidate patents sim c cs representing a similarity score between the query and all the claims of a patent in the first set of candidate patents sim c title representing a similarity score between the query and the title of a patent in the first set of candidate patents sim c abstract representing a similarity score between the query and the abstract of a patent in the first set of candidate patents sim key key representing a similarity score between key concepts of the query and a patent in the first set of patents sim key title representing a similarity score between the key concept of the query and the title of a patent in the first set of patents sim key abstract representing a similarity score between the key concept of the query and the abstract of a patent in the first set of patents IPC overlap representing a number of overlapping IPC codes between IPC codes of a patent in the first set of patents and the IPC codes of an initial high ranking set of patents in the first set of patents and direct Cite representing the number of patents in the initial high ranking set of patent documents that cite or are cited by a patent in the first set of patent documents. Also the set of feature scores may be normalized and may include IPC overlap representing the number of the overlapping IPC codes between the IPC codes of a patent in the first set of patent documents and the IPC codes of an initial high ranking set of patent documents in the first set of patents the re ranking module further adapted to compute IPC overlap including code adapted to define the overlap score between two IPC codes divide each IPC code to a plurality of levels based on IPC code structure and wherein a first level overlap between two IPC codes results in a first score and a second level overlap between two IPC codes results in a second score. The IPC overlap of a given patent document may be the average overlap scores between the IPC codes of that patent and all the IPC codes of the initial high ranking set of patent documents and where a patent has a low IPC overlap score it may be assigned a relatively low relevance score. The re ranking module may be configured based on a previously executed learning process involving automatically generated training data processed to establish a relevance weighting to be assigned to respective ones of the set of features. The learning module may collect training data and assign a relevance weighting to the set of features based at least in part on the collected training data. The search engine may comprise a baseline text based retrieval system adapted to yield the first set of candidate patent documents. The query may comprise a plurality of separately defined query terms one or more of the separately defined query terms processed by the search engine to delimit or weight patents included in the first set of candidate patent documents. The query may comprise a plurality of separately defined query terms one or more of the separately defined query terms processed by the re ranking module to delimit or weight the set of features.

In a second embodiment the invention provides a method for receiving and processing search queries and presenting search results to users the method comprising receiving a query comprising terms representing a patent claim search using a search engine to retrieve from a database a first set of patent documents each of the first set of patent documents comprising one or more claims responsive to the query re ranking the first set of patent documents based on a set of patent features to generate a re ranked set of patent documents and generating for display an ordered list of claims from the re ranked set of patent documents responsive to the query.

In yet a third embodiment the invention provides a method for receiving and processing search queries and presenting search results to users the method comprising receiving a query comprising terms representing a patent claim search using a search engine to retrieve from a database a set of patent claims each of the set of patent claims responsive to the query ranking a set of patent documents having one or more claims from the set of patent claims re ranking the set of patent documents using a set of patent features to generate a re ranked set of patent documents and generating for display an ordered list of patent claims responsive to the query from the re ranked set of patent documents.

In yet another embodiment the present invention provides a machine readable medium having stored thereon instructions to be executed by a machine to perform operations the instructions comprising instructions for presenting a graphical user interface screen including an input box for receiving a query input receiving a query related to patent claim terms processing the query against claims associated with patent documents represented in a database comprising patent documents to generate a set of candidate patent documents responsive to the query re ranking the set of candidate patent documents based at least in part on a set of patent features and generating a second set of ranked patent documents and displaying for review a graphical user interface screen associated with the set of ranked patent documents.

The present invention will now be described in more detail with reference to exemplary embodiments as shown in the accompanying drawings. While the present invention is described herein with reference to the exemplary embodiments it should be understood that the present invention is not limited to such exemplary embodiments. Those possessing ordinary skill in the art and having access to the teachings herein will recognize additional implementations modifications and embodiments as well as other applications for use of the invention which are fully contemplated herein as within the scope of the present invention as disclosed and claimed herein and with respect to which the present invention could be of significant utility.

The present invention provides a system for patent document searching and retrieval. In one exemplary embodiment given a claim text cq as a query the invention returns patent documents that contain similar claims and ranks them based on relevance scoring. The system is for use in applications where cq is from an existing patent document e.g. patent or patent application or is not an existing issued or pending claim. In one exemplary embodiment the invention consists of three steps 1 retrieve a set of claims from the universe of claims based on the claim text of cq 2 re rank the patents whose claims are returned in Step 1 3 return an ordered list of best matching claims from the re ranked patents. This process is described in more detail below in the context of exemplary embodiments.

 Patent documents as that term is used in the specification means U.S. and non U.S. patents and published or laid open patent applications and also documents that are derived in whole or in part from such documents. For instance U.S. patents include the following fields features or terms which may be separately defined searchable fields Abstract Application Date Application Serial Number Application Type Assignee City Assignee Country Assignee Name Assignee State Assistant Examiner Attorney or Agent Claims Description Specification Foreign Priority Foreign References Government Interest International Classification or IPC Inventor City Inventor Country Inventor Name Inventor State Issue Date Other References Parent Case Information Patent Number Patent Type PCT Information Primary Examiner Reissue Data Title Related US Application Data Current US Classification and Referenced By. Other regimes may use similar or additional fields that comprise patent documents. The invention allows users to construct queries to include claim related text as the primary or sole searching term. Users may also construct queries that include in addition to the claim text query term additional query terms to particularly limit or enhance importance of other terms such as those listed above. In this manner a user could for example search based on claim text as well as narrow the responsive set of patent documents to those related to a particular assignee inventor IPC or other classification date range issue date etc. In this manner the set of candidate patent documents yielded by the search engine used to process the queries may be reduced or particularized to suit the user s particular search needs or goals. In an alternative manner the system may be configured to allow a user to input and configure the system so that the re ranking module delimits or weights certain patent related fields such as those listed above or delimit or weight features associated with patent related fields in the re ranking process.

In accordance with one implementation of the invention an Unsupervised Learning based Retrieval ULR algorithm is used for example an algorithm based on WIN search Turtle 1994 for the first step i.e. the retrieval of the initial set of claims or initial set of candidate patent documents. Because claim text is usually long and has domain specific properties a search engine like WIN designed for generic information retrieval is not effective as a means for identifying and returning the most relevant claims or patent documents as the top candidates thus necessitating re ranking. In this example only claim text is used in the query. However as described elsewhere additional terms or steps may be used to arrive at an initial candidate set of claims or patent documents. Next the re ranking step involves the computation of several numeric features of each patent in the initial set which will be explained in more detail below. In one embodiment a support vector machine SVM based ranker e.g. T. Joachims. 2002b. Optimizing search engines using clickthrough data. pages 133 142 may be used to re rank the candidate patent documents. In addition the ranking model may be trained based on automatically generated data training data the generation of which will be explained in detail below.

The following discussion provides a more detailed description of the feature extraction aspect of the exemplary embodiment of the present invention. Given a query claim cq a search engine e.g. a WIN search engine is used to search all the individual claims of the patents in the search space. In this example the patents resulting in a top set of results e.g. in the top 100 are considered as the candidate pool. For each patent pi in the candidate pool a set of features is computed. The following example describes ten features for computation. These features fully utilize different fields of a patent such as title abstract IPC references and claims. These features may include some or all of the following exemplary fields fields of a patent patent title patent abstract patent IPC code patent references patent claims rank c representing the lowest rank of any claim of a patent in the first set of candidate patents sim c c representing a highest similarity score between the query and claims in a patent in the first set of candidate patents sim c cs representing a similarity score between the query and all the claims of a patent in the first set of candidate patents sim c title representing a similarity score between the query and the title of a patent in the first set of candidate patents sim c abstract representing a similarity score between the query and the abstract of a patent in the first set of candidate patents sim key key representing a similarity score between key concepts of the query and a patent in the first set of patents sim key title representing a similarity score between the key concept of the query and the title of a patent in the first set of patents sim key abstract representing a similarity score between the key concept of the query and the abstract of a patent in the first set of patents IPC overlap representing a number of overlapping IPC codes between IPC codes of a patent in the first set of patents and the IPC codes of an initial high ranking set of patents in the first set of patents and direct Cite representing the number of patents in the initial high ranking set of patent documents that cite or are cited by a patent in the first set of patent documents.

For example rank c is the 0 9ri where ri is the lowest rank of any claim of pi in the initial WIN search. Since the initial search is against individual claims pi may have several claims that appear in the top set of results. The embodiment may use the lowest rank among those claims to compute the feature for pi. With regard to sim c c this feature is the highest similarity score between the claims of pi and cq. This feature augments the rank feature above by the similarity scores provided by the WIN search engine. This feature may be normalized by dividing by the highest score for that feature for a particular query. Next is sim c cs which represents the similarity score between cq and all the claims of pi. Again this feature may be normalized by the highest score. Next is sim c title which represents the similarity score between cq and the title of pi normalized as above. Next is sim c abstract which represents the similarity score between cq and the abstract of pi normalized as above. Next is sim key key which represents the normalized similarity score between key concepts of cq and that of pi. Often the beginning sentence of an independent claim contains words such as comprising consists of include in that hear in and so on. These words and words like them are called identifiers. The words before an identifier usually point out the main subject of the claim which may be referred to as a key concept. The key concept of a patent is defined as the key concept of the first claim of a patent.

Another term is sim key title which represents the normalized similarity score between the key concept of cq and the title of pi. Another term is sim key abstract which represents the normalized similarity score between the key concept of cq and the abstract of pi. Another term is IPC overlap. The IPC overlap feature is based on the number of the overlapping IPCs between the IPCs of pi and those of a set of the source patents which for example may be defined as the top ten patents in the candidate pool. To compute IPC overlap it is preferred to first define the overlap score between two IPCs. In one exemplary instance each IPC may be divided into three levels based on structure. For example an IPC like A61K009 02 has three levels A61K level 1 A61K 009 level 2 and A61K009 02 level 3 . A single level overlap between two IPCs gives a predefined score of for example 0.3. The overlap scores of two IPCs are the sum of the scores from the three levels. For example the overlap scores between A61K009 02 and A61K009 10 is 0.6 since they overlap at level 1 and level 2. The IPC overlap of pi may be defined as the average overlap scores between the IPCs of pi and all the IPCs of the all the source patents. This feature is based on the assumption that the IPCs shared by most of the source patents will reflect the topic of the query claim. Thus if a patent has a low IPC overlap score it is unlikely to be a relevant patent. The next feature to be discussed is direct Cite which is similar to IPC overlap in that direct Cite represents the number of source patents that cite or are cited by pi normalized by the overall number of the source patents.

The next aspect of this preferred embodiment of the present invention is automatically generating training data. The re ranker algorithm automatically learns the importance of the features such as those described above to make best use of these features. In the preferred embodiment training data is used. Training data may be collected by human annotation of results but this is a time consuming and expensive process. Instead the present invention includes a way to automatically generate training data. The first step is the automatic generation of queries selected to be the first claims of a set of target patents. These queries are run through the WIN search engine to obtain the set of candidate patents and the features for these candidate patents are computed as described above. Training labels may be assigned to these feature vectors.

The generation of the labels relies on knowing the patent from which the query claim was selected. The assigned international patent code IPC and cited patents contain rich information about a particular patent. The preferred embodiment defines the following rules to judge the relevance of a candidate patent p to a target patent ptarget. First if p s IPC matches with the IPC of the ptarget and cites or is cited by ptarget then p is relevant to the ptarget and is assigned a grade A. Second if p s IPC matches with the IPC of the ptarget but is neither cited by nor cites ptarget then p is considered somewhat relevant to the ptarget and is assigned a grade C. Third if p s IPC does not match the IPC of the ptarget and is neither cited by nor cites ptarget then p is judged irrelevant to the ptarget and is assigned a grade F. In one manner IPCs may be defined as matching if they are the same at the second level. The course of assigning automatically grades A C and F is not error free but shows relative relevance. As long as the patents with a higher grade are more likely to be relevant to the target patent the automatic generated training data will be satisfactory to learn the re ranking model.

Based on the World Intellectual Property Organization the IPC international patent code are distributed into eight sections. In the following experimental example all the patents in Section A part of the IPC are used as the whole search space which includes around a half a million patents. For each patent the title IPC abstract and claims are known. It is important to note that the invention does not require the use of the full text of a patent. In the present instance from among one half a million patents 10 000 patents were randomly picked to generate the training and testing data. Specifically in this example for each patent the first claim is used to generate its candidate patents and used the rules discussed in detail below to automatically assign to them A C F grades. The query patents that do not result in any A s are discarded. In this exemplary test 79 of the queries were separated and used for testing and the remaining queries were used for training. The dataset was balanced to have about the same number of A s C s and F s but sub sampling the C s and F s. Overall around 5 000 patents were selected as targets resulting in about 40 000 labeled feature vectors. SVM light T. Joachims. 2002a. Learning to classify text using support vector machines. Dissertation Kluwer with a polynomial degree 2 kernel was used in this example to train the ranking model.

Re ranking was performed on the 79 test query claims. For these test queries the top 5 search results were sent to patent experts to assign grades A C and F where A means very relevant C means somewhat relevant and F means not relevant. The human grades were then compared to the automatically generated computer grades below. Regarding the similarity of the computer grades to the human grades Table 1 shows the conditional probability of computer grades given human grades for around 600 candidate patents. Table 1 shows that when a patent is judged very relevant by an expert human grade is an A the computer grade is rarely an F and when a patent is judged not relevant human grade is an F the computer grade is rarely an A. When a patent is judged somewhat relevant C the computer grade is most likely to be a C as well. This indicates that the computer grades are reliable in differentiating very relevant relevant and not relevant patents.

Next retrieval results are examined by first comparing the results with the baseline WIN search based on the computer grades. In Table 2 MAP A is the mean average precision when only A patents are considered as relevant MAP AC is the MAP when A and C patents are considered as relevant pre kA is the precision at rank k when only A patents are considered as relevant and pre kAC means precision at rank k when both A and C patents are considered as relevant. As Table 2 shows this exemplary embodiment of the invention performs substantially better than the baseline search. For example the inventive method improves pre 10AC from 0.16 to 0.38 and improves pre 5AC from 0.72 to 0.85. The MAP shows an improvement in performance of 38 .

Table 3 shows the results based on human grades. For this comparison two sets of results for human grading were sent one is with direct Cite feature and one is without direct Cite feature. Only the top five search results were evaluated by human experts. Pre 1A and Pre 5A indicate that direct Cite helps to push more A patents to the top. For purposes of this test human experts did not evaluate the baseline WIN search result given the fact that human grades and computer grades match well as shown above. Based on testing it is clear that the inventive method performs significantly better than the baseline method.

One significant advantage the method of the present invention has over WIN is that it not only uses features based on text similarity but also uses features based on IPCs and citations for example which usually contain information complementary to information found in the text. For example one test query performed in experimentation was directed to a search about a storage system furniture containing words like storage base frame support structure shelf etc. Based on text similarity WIN returned some irrelevant patents in its top five e.g. one is about an inventory control system for walk in display coolers and another is about tape cartridge storage system. The method of the present invention excluded such irrelevant patents from its high ranking set because for instance the IPCs of these irrelevant patents are different from the major IPCs of the candidate pool and they have low citation scores. Therefore the method of this exemplary embodiment of the present invention placed such irrelevant patents farther down in ranking.

In this manner the method of the present invention provides an unsupervised re ranking based patent retrieval system that is significantly better than a baseline text based retrieval system. The inventive method uses a rich set of features and may be trained on automatically generated training data thus making the method very efficient at run time. Although certain exemplary features e.g. IPC overlap and direct Cite are discussed in describing the present invention one of ordinary skill in the art would not so limit the invention to these expressed features and would understand the use of the invention with additional features to yield beneficial results. For instance one could apply other encoding of these features and could employ features based on co cite and other distance metrics between IPCs.

With reference to the above processes and as discussed in more detail below may be carried out in conjunction with the combination of hardware and software and communications networking illustrated in the form of exemplary system . In this example system provides a framework for searching retrieving analyzing and ranking claims and or patent documents. System may be used in conjunction with a system offering of a professional services provider e.g. West Services Inc. a part of Thomson Reuters Corporation and in this example includes a Central Network Server Database Facility comprising a Network Server a Database of patent documents e.g. NOVUS a Patent Document Retrieval System having as components a Patent Claims Analyzer a Feature Extraction module a Re ranking module and a Learning Module . The Central Facility may be accessed by remote users such as via a network e.g. Internet. Aspects of the system may be enabled using any combination of Internet or World Wide WEB based desktop based or application WEB enabled components. The remote user system in this example includes a GUI interface operated via a computer such as a PC computer or the like that may comprise a typical combination of hardware and software including as shown in respect to computer system memory operating system application programs graphical user interface GUI processor and storage which may contain electronic information such as electronic documents. The methods and systems of the present invention described in detail hereafter may be employed in providing remote users access to a searchable database. In particular remote users may search a patent document database using search queries based on patent claims to retrieve and view patent documents of interest. Because the volume of patent documents is quite high the invention provides scoring and ranking processes that facilitate an efficient and highly effective and much improved searching and retrieving operation. Client side application software may be stored on machine readable medium and comprising instructions executed for example by the processor of computer and presentation of web based interface screens facilitate the interaction between user system and central system . The operating system should be suitable for use with the system and browser functionality described herein for example Microsoft Windows Vista business enterprise and ultimate editions Windows 7 or Windows XP Professional with appropriate service packs. The system may require the remote user or client machines to be compatible with minimum threshold levels of processing capabilities e.g. Intel Pentium III speed e.g. 500 MHz minimal memory levels and other parameters.

The configuration thus described in this example is one of many and is not limiting as to the invention. Central system may include a network of servers computers and databases such as over a LAN WLAN Ethernet token ring FDDI ring or other communications network infrastructure. Any of several suitable communication links are available such as one or a combination of wireless LAN WLAN ISDN X.25 DSL and ATM type networks for example. Software to perform functions associated with system may include self contained applications within a desktop or server or network environment and may utilize local databases such as SQL 2005 or above or SQL Express IBM DB2 or other suitable database to store documents collections and data associated with processing such information. In the exemplary embodiments the various databases may be a relational database. In the case of relational databases various tables of data are created and data is inserted into and or selected from these tables using SQL or some other database query language known in the art. In the case of a database using tables and SQL a database application such as for example MySQL SQLServer Oracle 81 10G or some other suitable database application may be used to manage the data. These tables may be organized into an RDS or Object Relational Data Schema ORDS as is known in the art.

At Step a series of steps occur in parallel. A fixed thread pool created per instance of the application manages thread creation re use and queuing specifically this pool is an instance of ExecutorService which is part of the task scheduling framework that is included with the Java Concurrency Utilities . At Step six natural language searches are performed against the w ip bibliocs collection set which is composed of relationship collections . In one manner this may be based on the same relationship collection s on which the w ip biblio biblio collection or alternatively a document collection or other collection format domain is based. Thus in effect searching this collection set searches the domain. The goal of these searches isn t to find particular relationships rather it is to collect natural language search scores and ranking information. The searches are permutations searches against various fields with queries that consist either of the claim text passed into the vertical or the key concepts text generated from the claim text by code provided by an alternative service or source. At Step a getRelationships request is issued to w ip biblio. The relationships returned yield metadata used by for both display rendering and for input into the PcaRecommendationMgr. At Step an HTTP GET request is made of the servlet that exposes the MT Image service. This call is made to return information needed to link to patent PDF documents. For instance the Image Service servlet may be used to obtain image metadata in order to provide PDF links in the result returned by the vertical. One request may be made to obtain metadata for multiple images.

At Step the search metadata and some of the metadata returned by the getRelationships call is provided to the PcaRecommendationMgr which yields an optimal sort order for the 100 claims returned. At Step the recommended claims are compiled into an XML result which is inserted as a string into a JSON response created by the Spring controller. At Step CDO receives and caches the recommended claim result. At Step the UI transforms the XML document into an HTML result and further filtering is performed by UI manipulation of the result returned.

Now with reference to an exemplary representation of a machine in the example form of a computer system within which a set of instructions may be executed to cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein. In particular the system and variations of this may be used to implement the Patent Document Retrieval System of and or components of that system e.g. Patent Claims Analyzer Feature Extraction Re ranking module and Learning Module . In alternative embodiments the machine operates as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. networked to other machines. In a networked deployment the machine may operate in the capacity of a server or a client machine in server client network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. The machine may comprise a server computer a client computer a personal computer PC a network router switch or bridge or any machine capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken by that machine. Further while only a single machine is illustrated the term machine shall also be taken to include any collection of machines that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform any one or more of the methodologies discussed herein.

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit a keyboard or other input device a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a storage unit e.g. hard disk drive a signal generation device and a network interface device .

The storage unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions illustrated herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media. The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

While the machine readable medium is shown in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any non transitory medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media.

The present invention is not to be limited in scope by the specific embodiments described herein. It is fully contemplated that other various embodiments of and modifications to the present invention in addition to those described herein will become apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art from the foregoing description and accompanying drawings. Thus such other embodiments and modifications are intended to fall within the scope of the following appended claims. Further although the present invention has been described herein in the context of particular embodiments and implementations and applications and in particular environments those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that its usefulness is not limited thereto and that the present invention can be beneficially applied in any number of ways and environments for any number of purposes. Accordingly the claims set forth below should be construed in view of the full breadth and spirit of the present invention as disclosed herein.

