---

title: Gift-card and online payment system
abstract: A method, system, media, and device are directed to providing a check-out of a merchant transaction. A gift-card redemption interface is provided for redeeming a gift-card. A payment interface is provided for presenting a plurality of additional non-gift-card payment options comprising a credit-card payment option and a non-credit-card payment option. A mechanism is provided for performing operations. The operations include restricting a use of the gift-card redemption interface with the payment options; and processing the merchant transaction based on payments the gift-card.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08700472&OS=08700472&RS=08700472
owner: Retail Royalty Company
number: 08700472
owner_city: Las Vegas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101014
---
This application claims the benefit of provisional application 61 251 590 filed Oct. 14 2009 the entire content of which is expressly incorporated herein by reference thereto.

The present invention relates to a method system apparatus and media for processing merchant transactions. More particularly but not exclusively the present invention relates to managing a gift card redemption.

Online shopping systems enable shoppers to purchase items using credit cards or other payment mechanism. Shoppers may sometimes be able to use gift cards. However the processes and interfaces for purchasing items may be time consuming or confusing. Also there may be several gift cards that may be usable thus leading to more confusion. It is with respect to these considerations and others that the present invention is directed.

The invention is directed to a method device system and media for providing a check out of a merchant transaction. One embodiment of the process includes providing a gift card redemption interface for redeeming a gift card providing a payment interface for presenting a plurality of additional non gift card payment options comprising a credit card payment option and a non credit card payment option providing a mechanism for performing operations. The operations can include restricting a use of the gift card redemption interface with the payment options and processing the merchant transaction based on payments from the gift card.

In a preferred embodiment the gift card redemption interface and the payment interface are configured to be provided in a side by side view. The non credit card payment option can include a bill me later option or a payment from an online account. The method can also include providing a purchase interface for modifying the merchant transaction in a side by side view with the gift card redemption interface. In one embodiment restricting the use of the gift card redemption interface can include at least one of disabling a user interface entry for the non credit card payment option if the gift card redemption interface is selected and or restricting a use of a combination of the gift card and at least one of the non gift card payment options for the payments. The method can further include the step of including in the payments to be processed another payment from the credit card option if a value of the gift card is insufficient to pay for the merchant transaction.

The method can also include providing a credit value for fulfilling another merchant transaction and applying the credit value to the payments before processing the merchant transaction. The method can also include storing in a computer memory information about any remaining balance on the gift card after processing the merchant transaction and providing the gift card with the remaining balance as an option for fulfilling another merchant transaction.

In one embodiment processing the merchant transaction further can include sending to a payment processor the merchant transaction and payments. Providing the gift card redemption interface can also include providing an entry for a gift card or a selection of at least one available gift card for a user authorized to fulfill the merchant transaction.

In a preferred embodiment the gift card redemption provides a management of a plurality of gift cards wherein the management comprises adding or removing the gift cards or modifying attributes of the plurality of gift cards.

In a preferred embodiment the steps of providing the gift card redemption interface and providing the payment interface can be performed by a server device wherein the server device provides the interfaces over a network to a client device and wherein the step of restricting can be performed by the client device. The step of restricting can be performed by a browser operating within the client device. In one embodiment the browser receives the interfaces restricts the use of the gift card and receives the combination of the gift card and the credit card payment option asynchronous with communications to the server device. In one embodiment the payment interface is provided as a flip through interface that operates within the browser asynchronous with communications to the server device.

The invention also relates to a system for providing a check out of a merchant transaction. One embodiment of the system includes a server device configured to perform actions comprising providing a gift card redemption interface for redeeming a gift card and providing a payment interface for providing a plurality of additional non gift card payment options comprising a credit card payment option and a non credit card payment option.

The system can also include a client device in communication with the server device and configured to perform actions comprising restricting a use of the gift card redemption interface to a provided payment option of the plurality of additional non gift card payment options and processing the merchant transaction based on payments from the gift card.

In one embodiment the actions of the client device further include providing the gift card redemption interface the payment interface and a purchase interface for modifying the merchant transaction in a side by side view. In one embodiment restricting the provided payment option includes disabling a user interface entry for the non credit card payment option or the gift card redemption interface. In one embodiment the actions of the client device further include including in the payments to be processed another payment from the credit card option if a value of the gift card is insufficient to pay for the merchant transaction.

The invention also relates to a processor readable medium for providing a check out of a merchant transaction comprising instructions that when executed by processor causes the processor to perform actions. The actions can include providing a gift card redemption interface for redeeming a gift card providing a payment interface for providing a plurality of additional non gift card payment options comprising a credit card payment option and a non credit card payment option and providing a mechanism for performing operations. The operations can include restricting a use of the gift card redemption interface with the payment options and processing the merchant transaction based on payments from a combination of the gift card and any necessary amounts from the credit card payment option if a value of the gift card is insufficient to pay for the merchant transaction. The medium can be executed within a server device.

The invention also relates to a processor readable medium for providing a check out of a merchant transaction comprising instructions that when executed by processor causes the processor to perform actions. The actions can include receiving a gift card redemption interface for redeeming a gift card receiving a payment interface with a plurality of additional non gift card payment options comprising a credit card payment option and a non credit card payment option restricting a use of the gift card redemption interface with the payment options and processing the merchant transaction based on payments from a combination of the gift card and any necessary amounts from the credit card payment option if a value of the gift card is insufficient to pay for the merchant transaction. In one embodiment the medium can comprise HTML and or Javascript code. The medium can be executed within a client device and or within a browser.

The invention also relates to a computer implemented interface configured. The interface is configured to provide the ability to accept multiple cards for payments and to combine the card payments with other forms of tender automatically block determined combinations of tenders and provide projected post transaction value of each of the multiple cards used for payments. The interface may include a digital wallet configured to provide a plurality of images of the multiple cards. The images can be configured to be selected to activate the card to be used for payments. In one embodiment the multiple cards comprise at least one gift card. In one embodiment the combinations of tenders are blocked real time.

As used herein the term component refers to computer implemented mechanisms including software combined with hardware such as a computer process and or computer memory or purely hardware mechanisms such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or the like.

Generally the invention relates to a system method and associated devices for providing a mechanism and an interface to check out and pay for merchant transaction e.g. a basket of apparel using at least one gift cards along with other billing mechanisms such as a credit card PayPal and bill me later. A credit card as used herein includes check cards debit cards or the like. The interface allows multiple payment options combined with gift cards purchases to be presented in a side by side view.

The mechanisms described herein can be used in conjunction with a shopping website including a digital closet for purchasing clothing items such as those described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 575 299 entitled METHODS AND SYSTEMS FOR ONLINE SHOPPING filed Oct. 7 2009 which is incorporated herein by reference.

Server device includes any component configured to manage the merchant transactions. Server device can provide a gift card redemption interface for redeeming a gift card to client devices over network and or provide a payment interface for providing a plurality of additional payment options e.g. non gift card payment options comprising a credit card payment option and a non credit card payment option to client devices over network . Server device can confirm that the gift card is valid by sending such information to gift card verification service and receiving a confirmation. Server device can send any received payment information including a combination of the gift card and other payment options to payment processor for processing and fulfillment. In one embodiment server device can be a web server can provide a web service or the like. Server device can provide its web interfaces as HTML XML web services Application Programming Interface API Javascript Object Notation JSON services Asynchronous Javascript and XML AJAX services or the like.

Client devices include any components configured to provide an interface for a user to manage the merchant transactions. Client devices can restrict or otherwise block a use of the gift card redemption interface to a provided payment option of the plurality of additional payment options e.g. non gift card payment options and can process the merchant transaction based on payments including a gift card payment and or other payment options. In one embodiment the processing of the merchant transaction can include sending the merchant transaction and the payments to payment processor for processing and fulfillment.

Gift card verification service includes any component for receiving information about a gift card and providing over network a confirmation whether the gift card is valid and or who much value is left on the gift card. In one embodiment service can use a database to store valid information for the gift card and remaining values for the gift card. In one embodiment service can receive over network gift card number and or PIN code and can determine by data comparison or algorithmic determination whether the number and or PIN code are valid.

Payment processor includes any component for processing payments for a merchant transaction including processing credit card online charges gift cards checks or the like. Payment processor can include a fulfillment processor for fulfilling an order an automated clearing house bank to vendor electronic system or the like.

As shown server device comprises components in communication with each other including input output control processor memory display and browser . Input output control provides an interface for entering user commands and or receiving feedback from the device. The control can comprise a keyboard mouse sound output haptic output visual output etc. Processor memory includes any computing component and or computer memory component. For example the processor includes any device for performing computerized operations such as running a program based on processor readable instructions stored within a memory such as RAM ROM EEPROM hard disk drive etc. Browser includes any component for providing a user interface. Browser can provide promotion management. A user can manage the services provided in the browser and over display using input output control . Server device includes purchase manager gift card manager and payment manager . These components are in communication with each other and other components of device . Purchase manager gift card manager and payment manager may provide its information over network interface as a API AJAX interface JSON interface HTML data or the like.

Purchase manager includes any component for modifying a merchant transaction including adding removing and modifying items from the merchant transaction. In one embodiment purchase manager may be configured to provide a purchase interface for modifying the merchant transaction in a side by side view with a gift card redemption interface.

Gift card manager includes any component for redeeming a gift card. Gift card manager can provide a gift card interface over network interface . Gift card manager can receive data about the use of the gift cards as described herein and can store such information in processor memory . Gift card manager can send the gift card data and or other payment data over network interface to third party service for verification and or processing of the merchant transaction.

Payment manager includes any component for managing a plurality of additional payment options e.g. non gift card payment options comprising a credit card payment option and a non credit card payment option. Payment manager can provide a payment interface over network interface . Payment manager can receive data about the use of the payment options as described herein and can store such information in processor memory . Payment manager can send payment data over network interface to third party service for verification and or processing of the merchant transaction.

Client device includes similar components as those in server device including input output control and processor memory . Server device includes browser which includes gift card and payment logic . These components are in communication with each other and other components of device .

Browser can receive various interfaces including gift card redemption interfaces payment interfaces purchase interfaces or the like over a network. Browser can receive logic for performing at least some of the steps of restricting a use of the gift card redemption interface with the payment options and processing the merchant transaction based on payments the gift card. The received logic an be stored and executed as gift card and payment logic . Logic can be Javascript code rules or the like. Logic can operate asynchronous with communications with the server device . That is logic can perform its processing without communicating with server device . Logic can store some of its information locally on client device . Logic can transmit its data to server device after being processed and or stored locally on the client device .

At step a gift card redemption interface for fulfilling merchant transaction is provided. In one embodiment the gift card redemption interface is configured for redeeming a gift card. The gift card redemption interface and the payment interface can be configured to be provided in a side by side view.

At step a payment interface is provided the payment interface comprising a credit card and non credit card payment option for fulfilling merchant transaction. In one embodiment the non credit card payment option comprises a bill me later option or a payment from an online account. The online account can be a PayPal account.

At step a purchase interface for modifying merchant transaction is provided. In one embodiment the purchase interface is provided in a side by side view with the gift card redemption interface and or the payment interface. The purchase interface can provide a shopper with selections for last minute purchases to modify the merchant transaction. The shopper can also remove items from the merchant transaction and or modify characteristics of the items. The purchase interface can include accumulating credit values based on making purchases. The credit values can be provided for fulfilling another merchant transaction or even the current merchant transaction.

At step a gift card logic mechanism for performing processing combination of gift card and payment is provided. In one embodiment the gift card logic mechanism can be processor readable medium programming language code rules data or the like. In a preferred embodiment the logic mechanism can be Javascript code and data e.g. cookies data that is sent to a browser and executable and or persistable in the browser. The logic mechanism can be executed asynchronously with communications with a web server. For example the logic mechanism can use AJAX methods and technology. In yet another embodiment at least a part or all of the gift card logic can be provided to a server and executable on the server. The gift card logic mechanism can be configured to perform operations comprising restricting or otherwise blocking a use of the gift card redemption interface with the credit card payment option and processing the merchant transaction based on payments the gift card as described in the steps of .

At step the use of gift card is restricted to be used with a subset of the payment options which includes one or some of the payment options but not all of the payment options. In one embodiment the subset includes the credit card payment option. In general certain combinations of gift card and non gift card payment options may be restricted or blocked while other combinations may be allowed. A user interface detection mechanism e.g. restriction rules triggers or the like may be used to restrict the uses of the gift card and or payment options. In a preferred embodiment the provided payment option in the payment interface can be restricted to the credit card payment option if a gift card is selected. In another embodiment if a payment option other than the credit card payment option is selected the gift card selection in the gift card redemption interface is disabled. Correspondingly if the credit card selection is activated the gift card selection is enabled.

At step it is determined if the gift card redemption interface is selected. The gift card redemption interface can be used to enter a number of the gift card. The gift card redemption interface can be used to select a previously entered gift card e.g. that is authorized to be used . If so processing continues to step . Otherwise processing continues to step .

At step a payment selection from the payment interface is processed to fulfill the merchant transaction. For example a credit card selection is entered by the user. Credit card information including credit card number name address access codes or the like are entered verified and stored. In one embodiment the payment selection and the merchant transaction may be sent to third party for processing and applying payments from the payment option to the merchant transaction.

At step a gift card selection combined with any necessary payment selection from the payment interface is processed to fulfill merchant transaction. The payment selection is restricted to the subset of payment options allowed to be used with a gift card. The process of step is described in more detail in .

At step any credit values that are available for the user and or the merchant transaction are applied to the to merchant transaction. The credit values may be available based on the user type of user time of day merchant promotion period local of purchase type of purchase price of purchase or the like. The credit values can be created and stored from a use of the payment interface. In one embodiment the credit value can be applied to the payments before processing the merchant transaction.

At step it is determined whether the value of the gift card is insufficient to pay for the merchant transaction. The determination can be a comparison of the value of the gift card and the amount of the merchant transaction. If so processing continues to step . Otherwise processing continues to step .

At step the value of gift card is applied to the to merchant transaction. The value of the gift card can be deducted from the amount of the merchant transaction. Processing then continues to step .

At step the credit card payment option is received from the payment interface. The credit card payment option can be processed such that an electronic debit is applied to an account of a user e.g. in a bank a fund or the like and a credit applied to the fulfillment of the merchant transaction. In one embodiment the amount of the payment can include an amount needed to make up for the short fall in the gift card.

At step a combination of a value of gift card and a credit card payment option is applied to the merchant transaction. The combined amount of the gift card and any necessary payment form the credit card payment option to make up for the short fall in the gift card can be deducted from the amount of the merchant transaction. The combined amount can be sent to a third party payment processor for processing.

At step it is determined whether the gift card has any remaining value. The value of the gift card can be subtracted from the amount of the merchant transaction and if a positive amount remains it is determined that there is a remaining value. If so processing continues to step . Otherwise processing returns to other processing.

At step gift card information is stored for another presentation in the gift card redemption interface to fulfill another merchant transaction. For example the gift card information can be provided again in step of . The gift card s information can be retained and or synchronized with the gift card s usage at a store for example using a database update storing the amount available for the gift card on a database or the like. Processing then returns to other processing.

The interface can be provided as a graphical representation of a digital closet wherein the user can manage the cards or other tenders associated with the user using selections of images associated with the tenders as described below.

Generally the logic of the user interface can be received over a network e.g. from a web server and executed within the browser. The logic of the user interface can control how gift cards can be combined with other payments. For example the logic restrict the credit card payment to be received from a user if there is a remaining balance after applying the funds of the gift card. The logic can also prevent combining gift card with PayPal or bill me later option as shown. For example when using the gift card the PayPal and bill me later tabs may be grayed out. 

The financial logic including any combinations of determining shipping costs taxes application of credit values application of gift card values verification of payment options or the like can be executed within the browser on a client as opposed to on a server. For example the browser can dynamically validate the gift card promotion codes credit values calculates the amounts for the merchant transaction remaining balances or the like and present such information through the interfaces and control the flow of the interfaces. The user interfaces and logic can save information about the gift cards used or those gift cards with remaining balances for future purchases.

Each of the interfaces of include some common components such as an interface for shipping information payment information review and place order interface current selected items for adding removing modifying or otherwise managing the selected items of the merchant transaction to be processed credit discount code interface for entering a code credit value to the transaction a purchase interface for adding items to the selected items and next button for causing the interface to move to a next step in the process and providing the next interfaces shown in . Purchase interface and selected items enable adding and removing items from the merchant transaction such as adding last minute items. 

Credit discount code interface can integrate payment with credit value usage. For example the user can accumulate credit values for their purchase s . When the credit for a user reaches a threshold the user receives a discount code e.g. via email which can be used to reduce the price of products for purchase online or at a store. The user can enter the code into interface .

The user is also enabled by the interface to navigate to other sections such as the payment interface or review by clicking on the interface or the next button if enough information has been entered to reach the appropriate interfaces.

At the interface of using shipping information interface the user is enabled to select shipping information associated with the user and or transaction. The user is enabled to also select to enter new shipping information. The user is enabled to select the shipping methods . If it is determined that the user selects to enter new shipping information processing continues to . Otherwise processing continues to .

At the interface of the user is enabled to enter shipping information including name and address and the user is enabled to select the type of shipping including standard shipping. As shown the type of shipping may be limited e.g. graying out non available methods until the shipping information can be verified. Processing continues to the interface of .

At the interface of the shipping information can be verified and if the shipping information is incorrect or otherwise determined to be problematic error indication may be provided. The indication can point to the specific entry that is problematic. After fixing the entry processing continues to the interface of .

At the interface of after entry of the appropriate shipping information a plurality of shipping methods can be provided for the user to select to send the purchased items after they are fulfilled. Processing continues to the interface of .

At the interface of a user is enabled to select the credit card payment option from payment interface e.g. by clicking on the credit card tab. As shown the user interface of provides a side by side view of the gift card redemption interface and payment interface that provides other payments used to make a purchase. If a credit card is associated with the current transaction and or user the user is enabled to select to use the associated credit card from payment interface . The user is enabled to flip through the credit card stored by dragging a mouse over the interface left or right to go to the previous or next card. Or the user is enabled to click on the next button. The user is enabled to also select to combine the credit card payment with a gift card payment by selecting gift card redemption interface . In one embodiment by selecting the credit card payment option from payment interface the gift card redemption interface is enabled to be used e.g. is activated to receive inputs and highlighted using a user interface indication . If it is determined that the user selects to enter a particular credit card for interface processing continues to the interface of . If it is determined that the user selects gift card redemption interface processing continues to . Otherwise the user is enabled to go to . The user is enabled to go to this next step of by clicking a button such as a next button and or the interface may automatically flow to the next step after a time delay or the like.

At the interface of the user is enabled to enter credit card information including the type of card the credit card number expiration date and access codes for interface billing information contact information and the like. The user is enabled to also redeem credit values available for the user and or transaction by entering a code in credit value interface . The user is enabled to save away the information entered e.g. credit card gift card credit value codes etc to be associated with the user for other transactions by selecting account interface . If it is determined that the user selects gift card redemption interface processing continues to . Otherwise processing can continue to .

At the interface of a side by side view of gift card redemption interface is provided with the other components shown including payment interface . The gift card redemption interface includes a mechanisms to add a new gift card including a gift card number a pin and a button to apply the card and to cause the system to save the card for later use. The interface also includes the selection of saved gift cards for this user and or transaction and the ability to remove the gift cards . The interface can also provide the expiration date of the gift card s . In this way a user can decide to use gift cards that are closer to expiration date so that the value of the gift cards will not be wasted. The value of the gift cards before and after purchase may also be provided. As shown the interface can comprise at least a portion of the digital wallet for the user to enable the user to manage the tenders associated with the user. The interface enables the user to pay a remaining balance using a credit card using payment interface which includes interfaces . While the full credit card entry screen for interface is shown side by side with gift card redemption interface . can also provide merely the selection of the credit card as shown in along with the gift card redemption interface . Processing continues to the interface of .

At the interface of the user is enabled to select to enter a bill me later option by selecting the bill me later tab of payment interface and entering appropriate information such as birth date social security information and information for interfaces . If it is determined that the user selects the bill me later option gift card redemption interface is disabled. The system can then create a time trigger to send a bill to the user at a later time for the merchant transaction.

At the interface of the user is enabled to select to enter an option to pay from an online account e.g. a PayPal option by selecting the appropriate tab e.g. PayPal tab of payment interface and entering appropriate information such as contact information and information for interfaces . If it is determined that the user selects the online account option gift card redemption interface is disabled.

At interface of the user is enabled to review the merchant transaction and place the order. The user can review the shipping information the payment information which includes payment options and any gift card applications the selections for the merchant transaction or the like. If it is determined that the user selects to place the order e.g. by pressing button the information shown including the gift card and the payment option are processed. The processing can include sending the information to a third party for fulfillment of the transaction debiting the user s account and or crediting the merchant s account shipping the items or the like. In one embodiment a restricted combination of payments such as gift card payments with non credit card payments may be blocked from being processed and or and error may be returned when such a combination is sent to be processed. The blocking can be performed by rules database triggers or the like. Processing then returns to other processing.

In general the processing describe in A J may be performed in real time automatically as data becomes available and or based on user input. The interfaces described above can be modified dynamically on a client device without the need to refresh a browser page using for example AJAX and or asynchronous communication with a server. In one embodiment aspects of the information displayed may be changed as the user makes selections provides input or the like. For example the type of payments available may be dynamically and automatically blocked or made available based on the selection of at least one gift card. The value of gift card available before and after a purchase e.g. post transaction may be dynamically changed or otherwise projected based on adding or changing the price of items the number of items in a shopping cart the items purchased the shipping method or the like. The addition of items to a shopping cart may be based on the drag and drop of items or addition of items from a digital closet as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 575 299.

It is to be understood that the invention is not to be limited to the exact configuration as illustrated and described herein. Accordingly all expedient modifications readily attainable by one of ordinary skill in the art from the disclosure set forth herein or by routine experimentation there from are deemed to be within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

For the sake of brevity it should be understood that certain structures and functionality or aspects thereof of embodiments of the present invention that are evident from the illustrations of the Figures have not been necessarily restated herein.

A computer or processor readable medium such as a floppy disk CD ROM DVD etc. may be use to store the processes techniques software and information illustratively described herein. The media may store instructions which when executed by a computer processor causes the processor to perform the processes described herein. The media can also be stored on devices such as a server device within a database within main memory within secondary storage or the like.

Further still the memory of the system may comprise a magnetic hard drive a magnetic floppy disk a compact disk a ROM a RAM and or any other appropriate memory. Further still the computer of the system may comprise a stand alone PC type micro computer as depicted or the computer may comprise one of a mainframe computer or a mini computer for example. Further still another computer can access the software program being processed by the CPU by utilizing a local area network a wide area network or the Internet for example.

The preceding description is presented to enable any person of ordinary skill in the art to practice the present invention. Various modifications to the preferred embodiment will be readily apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art and the principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments and applications without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Thus the invention is not intended to be limited to the specific embodiments shown but the claims are to be accorded an appropriate scope consistent with the principles and features disclosed herein as understood by skilled artisans. The figures are not necessarily to scale some features may be exaggerated to show details of particular components. Therefore specific structural and functional details disclosed herein are not to be interpreted as limiting but merely as a basis for the claims and as a representative basis for teaching one skilled in the art to variously employ the present invention.

