---

title: Weight based vehicle seat occupant detection device with compensation for seat orientation angle
abstract: A weight based occupant detection device that includes a weight sensing device installed in a vehicle seat in a manner effective to sense weight on a seating surface. The weight sensing device is configured to output a weight signal indicative of an occupant weight of a seat occupant residing on the vehicle seat. The occupant detection device also includes a seat orientation angle sensing device that is configured to output an orientation angle signal indicative of a seat orientation angle. The occupant detection device may also include an accelerometer for sensing vertical acceleration of the vehicle seat, and a seat backrest angle device for measuring the angle of the seat backrest. The occupant detection device compensates a signal from the weight sensing device for errors caused by seat orientation, seat vertical acceleration and seat backrest angle.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08558713&OS=08558713&RS=08558713
owner: Delphi Technologies, Inc.
number: 08558713
owner_city: Troy
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101103
---
The invention generally relates to vehicle occupant detection systems and more particularly relates to a device in a vehicle seat configured to compensate an estimate of occupant weight of an occupant residing on the vehicle seat based on a seat orientation angle of the vehicle seat.

Many vehicles in particular automobiles are equipped with occupant detection devices so occupant protection devices such as airbags can be enabled or disabled based on who or what is occupying a seat in the vehicle. For example if a seat is empty or occupied by a small child it may be desirable to reduce the deployment force or disable an airbag for that seat to prevent airbag deployment if the vehicle is involved in a collision. One way to estimate the size of a seat occupant is to equip the seat with a device that estimates occupant weight.

It has been observed that changes in seat orientation angle relative to the vehicle and or the direction of the force of gravity and changes in vehicle orientation angle relative to the direction of the force of gravity may change the apparent weight of an occupant indicated by the device estimating occupant weight. As used herein seat orientation angle means a difference between the forward backward tilting pitch angle of the seat and or left right tilting roll angle of the seat relative to some reference position and the direction of the force of gravity. Variations in seat vehicle orientation angle change the occupant s force vector due to gravity with respect to the weight sensor. Also the occupant weight can be off loaded from the weight sensor to other areas of the seat such as the edges of the seat or the back rest if the seat orientation angle changes. In addition up down motion heave induced by vehicle movement as the vehicle travels may also change the apparent weight of an occupant. According to some observations the effects of seat orientation angle can cause a 10 error of full scale in weight estimation. The effects of heave may add to the problem. In one situation the effects of seat orientation angle and heave can make distinguishing 5percentile adults small adults from children difficult.

The invention described herein estimates an occupant weight of an occupant residing on vehicle seat from a signal indicating the occupant weight and then corrects or compensates the indicated occupant weight for a difference of a seat orientation angle relative to a reference seat orientation angle or for vertical acceleration of the vehicle seat.

In accordance with one embodiment of this invention a weight based occupant detection device configured to be installed in a vehicle seat is provided. The device includes a weight sensing means and a seat orientation angle sensing means. The weight sensing means is installed in a vehicle seat in a manner effective to sense weight on the seating surface. The weight sensing means is configured to output a weight signal indicative of an occupant weight of a seat occupant residing on the vehicle seat. The seat orientation angle sensing means is configured to output an orientation angle signal indicative of a seat orientation angle.

In another embodiment of the present invention a vehicle seat is provided. The vehicle seat includes a seat cushion a weight sensing means and a seat orientation angle sensing means. The seat cushion is configured to define a seating surface. The weight sensing means is installed in the vehicle seat in a manner effective to sense weight on the seating surface. The weight sensing means is configured to output a weight signal indicative of an occupant weight of a seat occupant residing on the vehicle seat. The seat orientation angle sensing means is configured to output an orientation angle signal indicative of a seat orientation angle. The orientation angle signal is used to compensate the weight signal to estimate an occupant weight value.

In another embodiment of the present invention a method of operating a weight based occupant detection device provided. The method includes the step of receiving an indication of an occupant weight from a weight sensing means installed in a vehicle seat. The method also includes the step of receiving an indication of a seat orientation angle of the vehicle seat. The method also includes the step of estimating an occupant weight of an occupant residing on the vehicle seat based on the indication of occupant weight and the indication of a seat orientation angle. The orientation angle signal is used to compensate the weight signal to estimate an occupant weight value.

Further features and advantages of the invention will appear more clearly on a reading of the following detailed description of the preferred embodiment of the invention which is given by way of non limiting example only and with reference to the accompanying drawings.

In accordance with an embodiment illustrates a vehicle seat in a vehicle . The vehicle seat includes a seat cushion configured to define a seating surface suitable for a seat occupant to reside upon. The seat cushion may be formed of a compressible foam or the like having mechanical properties suitable for sitting upon. The seating surface may include a layer of cloth leather or other suitable material to make the vehicle seat appear attractive and protect the material forming the seat cushion from damage.

The vehicle seat may also include a weight sensing means installed in the vehicle seat in a manner effective to sense weight of a seat occupant on the seating surface . This weight is indicated by arrow hereafter weight or occupant weight . The weight sensing means is configured to output a weight signal indicative of an occupant weight of a seat occupant residing on the vehicle seat . The weight signal may convey the weight or the occupant or may convey a classification of the occupant for example classifying the occupant as an adult or a child. In one embodiment the weight sensing means may include a bladder and a pressure sensor . The bladder is preferably located proximate to the seating surface so that as a person sits on the seat assembly the bladder is subject to sufficient force or weight to cause a change in the fluid pressure within the bladder . The bladder is configured to define a cavity . The embodiment shown in has multiple cavities but it will be appreciated that other configurations of bladder are possible including a configuration having a single cavity. Material selected to form the bladder needs to retain a fluid and pressurize the fluid in response to an occupant weight upon the bladder . A non limiting example of a material suitable to form the bladder is thermoplastic polyurethane such as Pellethane sold by the Lubrizol Corporation. A non limiting example of a material suitable for use as the fluid in the bladder is polydimethylsiloxane fluid sold by Dow Corning Corporation. The pressure sensor may be part of an electronic control unit hereafter ECU which may include a protective housing for the pressure sensor . The pressure sensor is in fluidic communication with and coupled to the bladder by a hose typically filled with the same fluid used to fill the bladder . The pressure sensor is generally configured to provide a pressure signal indicative of the occupant weight .

Continuing to refer to the vehicle seat may also include a seat orientation angle sensing means configured to output an orientation angle signal indicative of a seat orientation angle. As will be explained in more detail below the seat orientation angle sensing means may include an accelerometer and a controller configured to receive signals from the accelerometer and determine a seat orientation angle signal based on those signals. It should be understood that the seat orientation for the arrangement illustrated is a value stored and or processed by the controller . However other arrangement may be such that the seat orientation angle signal is present on an electrical conductor interconnecting the seat orientation angle sensing means to some other electrical device. When the seat orientation angle is known the orientation angle signal may be used to compensate the weight signal to estimate an occupant weight. In the case where weight is indicated by the pressure signal the orientation angle signal may be used to compensate the pressure signal to estimate an occupant weight .

As suggested above the seat orientation angle sensing means may include an accelerometer . A suitable non limiting example of the accelerometer may be a 3 axis accelerometer for example a model ADXL346 3 axis accelerometer from Analog Devices Inc. However it will be appreciated that an accelerometer having fewer than 3 axis of sensing may be used to provide some compensation of a signal indicative of occupant weight . By way of a non limiting example a single axis accelerometer configured to output a first acceleration signal may be used to estimate a forward backward tilting pitch angle of the seat. Observations during testing of occupant detection devices such as device suggest that knowing pitch angle is a dominate factor when estimating a seat orientation angle for compensating a weight signal. As another example the accelerometer may be a 2 axis accelerometer that depending on how the 2 axis accelerometer is oriented may be used to determine pitch angle and either roll angle or seat vertical acceleration value heave . In this example the controller may be configured to estimate the occupant weight based on the weight signal the seat orientation angle and or the seat vertical acceleration value.

It has been observed during testing of seat assemblies such as vehicle seat that the fluid pressure sensed by the pressure sensor for indicating an occupant weight changes when the orientation of the vehicle seat relative to the vehicle or direction of gravity is changed. The orientation can be changed by the occupant adjusting the seat orientation relative to the vehicle to be comfortable or can be changed by the vehicle traveling uphill or downhill. The test data indicates that a pressure signal from the pressure sensor may vary by 10 of reading in response to a change in seat inclination angle of 15 degrees. Such a change may reduce the accuracy of classifying the size of a seat occupant. For example a small adult residing on the seat may be classified as a child and so the occupant protection device activation may be unnecessarily deactivated.

It has been suggested that vehicle seats having an arrangement of bladder and pressure sensor similar to that shown in may influence the fluid pressure indicated by the pressure sensor when the vehicle experiences various dynamic accelerations such as longitudinal acceleration caused by the vehicle accelerating from a stop to some speed or braking from some speed to a stop. Dynamic acceleration may also include lateral acceleration caused by the vehicle executing a turn while traveling at some speed. An analysis indicates that the arrangement shown in may exhibit a 20 of full scale variation of the pressure signal during accelerations typically experienced during vehicle operation.

The effect of seat orientation on occupant weight and how to compensate the indication of occupant weight from the weight sensing means will now be further described by way of examples. When the seating surface is at a reference orientation for example the seating surface is normal or perpendicular to the direction of the force of gravity the occupant weight may be fully applied to the weight sensing means . However if the vehicle seat is tipped backward the weight applied to the sensor is reduced as the seat orientation angle increases. While not subscribing to any particular theory the amount of compensation applied to the pressure signal may be based simply on the tilt angle and so the compensation may be based on known trigonometric functions. However some of the unloading of the weight sensing means may be due to the seat back supporting a portion of the occupant particularly if the seat backrest is in a reclined position. As such the vehicle seat may also include a means to determine an orientation angle for the backrest relative to the seating surface . It follows then that more sophisticated formulas may be required or the correction may be performed by referring to look up tables stored in the controller that were developed through empirical testing.

In one embodiment the ECU may include a 3 axis accelerometer mounted on printed circuit board PCB within the ECU housing. The accelerometer is preferably mounted in such a way so the accelerometer senses static and dynamic accelerations along three perpendicular axes. This 3 axis data may be used to compensate the sensed weight value for any orientation angles relative to the reference or level position of the vehicle seat . It will be recognized by those skilled in the art that a 3 axis accelerometer may be used to resolve an orientation angle that does not reside strictly along one axis. The three signals from the accelerometer VX VY VZ may be received by the controller . It is noted that the ECU that may also include a vehicle serial communication capability and or other features useful for detecting and communicating that an occupant is present on the vehicle seat and estimating an occupant weight of the occupant .

In another embodiment the ECU may receive signals from a seat back rest angle means such as a second 3 axis accelerometer placed in the seat backrest. The seat backrest inclination data may provide additional information to be used to calculate the true weight of the occupant as a function of the unloading of the seat bottom cushion due to some of the occupant weight being partially supported by an reclined seat backrest. In another embodiment the ECU may receive data from an Inertia Measurement Unit IMU if the vehicle is so equipped with such device. It will be appreciated that the IMU vehicle data would also need to be as comprehensive as the local 3 axis accelerometer in the ECU. It will be appreciated that since the 3 axes of the accelerometer are orthogonal to each other the root sum square value should be equal to one under normal gravity conditions. square root over Equation 1 RSS values greater than 1 are indicative of vehicle dynamic operation and other movements resulting in accelerations of the seat and occupant in addition to gravity. These conditions would be detectable with this approach and the RSS value could be used as qualifier in a logical filter to disable updates of sensor data during these induced and often transient conditions. Prolonged situations that for example may include these additional accelerations are spiral roads or mountain ascents descents would be recognized and the data compensated for these abnormal conditions.

At step RECEIVE SEAT ORIENTATION ANGLE the ECU or the controller may receive an indication of a seat orientation angle of the vehicle seat from the seat orientation angle sensing means . As described above the indication of the seat orientation angle of the vehicle seat may be provided by an accelerometer coupled to the vehicle seat optionally located within an ECU housing. However it will be readily recognized that there are other ways to provide an indication of seat orientation angle such as using potentiometers mechanically coupled to the vehicle seat to measure a seat orientation angle relative to the vehicle or a device that directly measures angles such as an electronic bubble level.

At step COMPENSATE OCCUPANT WEIGHT FOR SEAT ORIENTATION ANGLE the controller may estimate an occupant weight of an occupant residing on the vehicle seat by compensating the indication of occupant weight from the weight sensing means in accordance with the indication of a seat orientation angle from the seat orientation angle sensing means and thereby compensate the occupant weight indicated by the weight sensing means for seat orientation angle.

At step RECEIVE SEAT VERTICAL ACCELERATION the ECU or the controller may receive an indication of a seat vertical acceleration from the accelerometer . At step COMPENSATE OCCUPANT WEIGHT FOR SEAT VERTICAL ACCELERATION the controller may compensate an estimate of an occupant weight of an occupant residing on the vehicle seat in accordance with the indication of a seat vertical acceleration and thereby compensate the indicated occupant weight for seat vertical acceleration. For example if the seat vertical acceleration is upward then the indicated weight of the occupant may be greater than the actual weight of the occupant . Likewise if the seat vertical acceleration is downward then the indicated weight of the occupant may be less than the actual weight of the occupant .

At step RECEIVE SEAT BACKREST ANGLE the ECU or the controller may receive an indication of an indication of a seat backrest angle. The seat backrest angle may come from a seat backrest angle means illustrated in . The seat backrest angle means may include an electronic bubble level or a potentiometer coupled to the seat backrest and configured to sense or measure the seat backrest angle. As described above if the seat backrest is in a reclined position then the occupant weight indicate by the weight sensing means may be less than the actual occupant weight . At step COMPENSATE OCCUPANT WEIGHT FOR SEAT BACKREST ANGLE the controller may estimate an occupant weight of an occupant residing on the vehicle seat based on the seat backrest angle and thereby compensate the indicated occupant weight for the seat backrest angle.

At step OUTPUT CORRECTED OCCUPANT WEIGHT the ECU may output a signal to an airbag controller to enable or disable the airbag based on the weight of the occupant . The signal output to the airbag controller may communicate the estimated weight of the occupant or may indicate that the occupant has been assigned a classification such as full sized adult or child.

Accordingly a device and a vehicle seat and a method are provided for determining an estimate of an occupant weight. Static as well as dynamic vehicle and seat orientation angle may be determined and this data used to adjust or compensate the measured bladder fluid pressure for the conditions that may cause the bladder fluid to not accurately indicate occupant weight.

While this invention has been described in terms of the preferred embodiments thereof it is not intended to be so limited but rather only to the extent set forth in the claims that follow.

