---

title: System, method and device for providing a mobile application across smartphone platforms to enable consumer connectivity and control of media
abstract: A system, method and device for providing a mobile application across smart phone platforms to enable consumer connectivity and control of media. The viewing experience of the individual is improved by the added control and the advertising experience is enhanced by ensuring advertisements are relevant and actionable. A system for providing interactivity between a mobile device and content includes a content provider providing content for presentation on a display device and a mobile device configured with a media management module communicating to provide user interactivity with the content. The media management module enables individualized consumer media services for the mobile device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09277292&OS=09277292&RS=09277292
owner: Cox Communications, Inc.
number: 09277292
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101209
---
This disclosure relates in general to the management of media by consumers and more particularly to a system method and device for providing a mobile application across smart phone platforms to enable consumer connectivity and control of media.

Currently viewers of TV and other media have no intuitive way to collect and organize product opportunities as they are presented to them. In addition consumers do not have an electronic method of organizing those promotions on a retail level.

As the smart phone achieves commonplace and customary status in the lives of individual consumers around the world it simultaneously introduces the ability to radically disrupt the traditional media model. That model previously consisted of a one way broadcast to the mass market with limited understanding and no interactivity. Now a more optimal model that is bi directional focused on an individual consumer s needs and desires and permits new consumption behaviors and which may be discretely controlled by the entities who own this channel to the consumer is possible. Individuals are not able to connect their smart phones to their entertainment media viewing experiences although a very high percentage of users are using their phone in all other aspects of their day to day lives. The mobile device is no longer just a way to receive or make voice communications with others it is a way to communicate in short messaging texting send and receive email enjoy video while on the move play games and organize their lives thru applications . But in today s world users cannot effectively manage their media thru this now ubiquitous device.

There are over twenty million unique smart phone subscribers in the current market. Smart phones possess the ability to run third party applications in a mobile device with a wireless and or Internet data connection. Smart phones are overtaking the existing install base as mobile provider contracts renew. All of the research to date confirms that the smart phone will dominate in the foreseeable future and provide a reliable platform for the software product itself.

Mainstream consumer interests are not rapidly adopting high end televisions and cable set top boxes due to cost and limited additional benefits provided by the high cost. For cable companies themselves the cost of the existing cable set top boxes is one of their largest installed assets. The lowest common denominator for the mainstream is a typical television regardless of screen type and infrared remote control. This television and infrared remote arrangement will dominate into the foreseeable future and provide the base requirement for the product environment.

Consumers are increasingly fickle and spend greater amounts of recreation time on the Internet with social networking. Consumers want recommendations and variety and ease of use. They want to participate communicate with friends and buy when it fancies them. Further they want to do everything reasonably possible on the smart phone platform from banking to map navigation to newspapers to weight loss applications.

Accordingly there is a need for a system method and device for providing a mobile application across smart phone platforms to enable consumer connectivity and control of media.

To overcome the limitations described above and to overcome other limitations that will become apparent upon reading and understanding the present specification embodiments for a system method and device for providing a mobile application across smart phone platforms to enable consumer connectivity and control of media are disclosed.

The above described problems are solved by providing a device that improves the viewing experience for the individual and enhances the advertising experience by ensuring advertisements are relevant and actionable.

In one embodiment a system for providing interactivity between a mobile device and content includes a content provider for providing content for presentation on a display device and a mobile device configured with a media management module for communicating to provide user interactivity with the content provided by the content provider and presented on the display device.

In another embodiment mobile device for controlling user interaction with content is disclosed. The mobile device includes memory for storing data and a processor for processing the data the processor further being configured to provide a media management module for communicating to provide user interactivity with content provided by a content provider and presented on a display device.

In another embodiment method for providing user interactivity with content provided by a content provider and presented on a display device using a mobile device is disclosed. The method includes initiating a media management module on a mobile device presenting content on a display device and using the media management module on the mobile device to provide user interactivity with the content presented on the display device.

In another embodiment a computer readable medium including executable instructions which when executed by a processor provides user interactivity through a mobile device with content provided by a content provider and presented on a display device is disclosed. The instructions executed by the processor for providing user interactivity through a mobile device with content provided by a content provider and presented on a display device include providing a media management module on a mobile device to enable communication to support user interactivity with content provided by a content provider and presented on a display device initiating the media management module on the mobile device presenting content on the display device and using the media management module on the mobile device to communicate with the conditional access device to provide user interactivity with the content presented on the display device.

These and various other advantages and features of novelty are pointed out with particularity in the claims annexed hereto and form a part hereof. However for a better understanding of the disclosed embodiments the advantages and the objects obtained reference should be made to the drawings which form a further part hereof and to accompanying descriptive matter in which there are illustrated and described specific examples of the disclosed embodiments.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to a mobile application that can be implemented on multiple smart phone platforms and which enables consumer to connect a mobile device to their preferred TV viewing experience. A media management module enables individualized consumer media services to a mobile device. The media management module is downloaded to the mobile device and subscribers are guided through a registration process. Configuration may be controlled to identify the subscriber associated with the mobile device and what media environments the subscriber wants to control STB analog TV etc. . The mobile device may also detect other devices that may be used with the provided services e.g. a STB a DVD player a DVR etc. The device may also identify other remote control devices. Profile preferences are stored so a guide may be produced that is specific to the subscriber. Advanced customization features of the mobile application are provided across the smart phone platform. The mobile device may not only act as a remote control device but may also be configured to enable targeted advertising and TV commerce opportunities based on knowledge of consumer activity.

According to embodiments of the present invention the CATV system is in the form of a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across the HFC network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via a server side head end and a client side customer via a client side set top box STB functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art CATV systems may provide a variety of services across the HFC network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of the CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data are provided to the customer television set via the set top box STB . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to the CATV system likewise are provided by the STB . As illustrated in the STB is a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. The input output mechanism receives input from server side processes via the HFC network and from customers via input devices such as the remote control device and the keyboard . The remote control device and the keyboard may communicate with the STB via a suitable communication transport such as the infrared connection . The remote control device may include a biometric input module . The STB also includes a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to the television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner is provided for processing video and data to and from the STB and the server side head end system described below.

The STB also includes an operating system for directing the functions of the STB in conjunction with a variety of client applications . For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on the television the operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of the STB for example to output the news flash to the television at the direction of the client application responsible for displaying news items.

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer is provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment of the present invention the middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces APIs that are exposed to client applications and operating systems that allow the client applications to communicate with the operating systems through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer is included on the server side of the CATV system for facilitating communication between the server side application server and the client side STB . According to one embodiment of the present invention the middleware layer of the server side application server and the middleware layer of the client side STB format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML .

The set top box passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television via a one way communication transport . The STB may receive video and data from the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. The STB may transmit data from the client side of the CATV system to the server side of the CATV system via the HFC network via one data uplink. The video data downlink is an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of the CATV system through the HFC network to the set top box for use by the STB and for distribution to the television set . As is understood by those skilled in the art the in band signaling space operates within a predetermined frequency range e.g. 54 MHz 1 GHz. Those skilled in the art will recognize that in band signaling is a term that refers to the distribution of data in the same carriers that are used to distribute video signals. The signaling space in the predetermined frequency range of the in band signaling is generally divided into channels in which may be transmitted a single analog signal or a greater number of digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink illustrated in between the HFC network and the set top box comprise out of band data links. As is understand by those skilled in the art the out of band frequency range generally lies in a frequency range that is selected to be significantly different from the frequency band for the in band signaling used to distribute video signals. According to embodiments of the present invention data flow between the client side set top box and the server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data may be provided in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from the server side application server through the HFC network to the client side STB . Operation of data transport between components of the CATV system described with reference to is well known to those skilled in the art.

Referring still to the head end of the CATV system is positioned on the server side of the CATV system and includes hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through the HFC network to client side STBs for presentation to customers via televisions . As described above a number of services may be provided by the CATV system including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

The application server is a general purpose computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from the client side set top box via the HFC network . As described above with reference to the set top box the application server includes a middleware layer for processing and preparing data from the head end of the CATV system for receipt and use by the client. For example the application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from third party services via the Internet for transmitting to a customer through the HFC network . For example a weather report from a third party weather service may be downloaded by the application server via the Internet . When the application server receives the downloaded weather report the middleware layer may be utilized to format the weather report for receipt and use by the subscriber.

According to one embodiment of the present invention data obtained and managed by the middleware layer of the application server may be formatted according to the Extensible Markup Language and passed to the set top box through the HFC network where the XML formatted data may be utilized by a client application in concert with the middleware layer as described above. As should be appreciated by those skilled in the art a variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by the application server via distributed computing environments such as the Internet for provision to customers via the HFC network and the set top box .

According to embodiments of the present invention the application server may obtain customer support services data including billing data information on customer work order status answers to frequently asked questions services provider contact information and the like from data services for provision to the customer via an interactive television session. As illustrated in the services provider data services may include a number of services operated by the services provider of the CATV system including data on a given customer.

A billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. According to embodiments of the present invention the billing system may also include billing data for services and products subscribed to by the customer for bill processing billing presentment and payment receipt.

A customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. The customer information database may also include information on pending work orders for services or products ordered by the customer. The customer information database may also include general customer information such as answers to frequently asked customer questions and contact information for various service provider offices departments. As should be understood this information may be stored in a variety of disparate databases operated by the cable services provider.

A cross platform smart phone mobile application server may contain information such as electronic mail addresses high speed Internet access subscription information and electronic mail usage data. An authentication system may include information such as secure user names and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services. As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate data services systems are illustrated as a collection of data services for purposes of example only. The example data services systems comprising the data services may operate as separate data services systems which communicate with a web services system described below along a number of different communication paths and according to a number of different communication protocols.

Referring still to a web services system is illustrated between the application server and the data services . According to embodiments of the present invention the web services system serves as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising the data services . According to embodiments of the present invention when the application server requires customer services data from one or more of the data services the application server passes a data query to the web services system . The web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any required data for a requesting customer as identified by a set top box identification associated with the customer. The web services system serves as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and the application server . That is the application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is the application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems. The web services system is operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer data. The customer data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to the application server for ultimate processing via the middleware layer as described above.

Accordingly the user is able to easily download a media management application to their smart phone . In addition the user will configure the video devices that are in the home or domain with the intuitive interface personalize their configuration for their particular preferences and connect to social network groups to share media preferences e.g. TV and movie preferences or subscribe to a group for suggested content. It must be easy for customers to set their preferred channels media sources and devices to control. Customers need to opt in on services to receive suggestions or group suggestions. In addition a very clear privacy policy needs to be made available to customers.

The IR portion of the media management application must be very easy to configure. One way for this device to be easily configured is for the customer to enter in all of the device models that they have and the back office could look up their IR signals. An alternative way would be to put the application in learn mode and have the consumer use their traditional remotes to control their in home devices. Once the application has listened to the IR in the room it will look up all devices that use those captured IR signals. The user will have to answer a series of questions so the application can figure out what devices are in the room did your TV just turn off Once a careful list of questions and responses are collected the IR component will be automatically programmed.

The application and corresponding hardware may be provided to the subscriber without charge. Monetization may be achieved through advertising displayed on the mobile smart phone. Accordingly a broad deployment is preferable because a single service provider may not reach a sufficient size of audience to generate a profit. In addition a specialized application may also be loaded onto the smart device to support additional functions.

Subscribers may use their mobile device to control the TV playback device DVD blue ray player or cable box etc. The personalized guide on the smart phone will not only control their TV service provider s content but personal content Internet based streamed content or locally stored content a DVD or Netflix downloaded content . Imagine sitting down in the evening to view TV entertainment and opening an application on your cell phone that will not only tell you what is on your most favorite network programmers but will suggest other content as communicated in your user profile preferences. The software would also be able to infer crossover referrals to content that the user forgot to add to their profile. It is also possible to have other persons sitting in the same room to have a different set of suggestions. A different person in the room may notice that a new movie is available on the family multi disc DVD player giving them an equal voice the TV viewing options. As a result of this level of information being controlled by the wireless device the media smart phone device will have invaluable information in its data base that could be leveraged or sold to third parties. The company would keep all of this information in centralized data bases and make it readily available upon command.

The second feature set of this product would allow networks to know when subscribers are viewing their content and offer interactivity to either the show or ads in the programming. Consider that an individual has tuned to the popular show American Idol. There will be direct voting opportunities in real time during the show or the media management software could understand that the individual is watching the show time shifted from DVR and as such allow voting while they watch the recording. This level of knowledge could be leveraged in several methods 

The third feature set enables direct connection of your video consumption experience with opportunities of direct purchase. It could be as simple as an SMS keyword for ordering a book based on an ad in the network stream from Amazon or something more complicated like the software noticing you are starting a movie off your blue ray on a Friday night and offering a pizza from your local pizza shop.

The content may be provided to consumers that use a wide variety of different devices to watch and or listen to the delivered content . The content may be provided through a conditional access device such as a set top box to enable the network operators to charge subscribers for the content . However a conditional access device is not necessary. For example the content may be viewed on an in home display device such as a television a mobile device an in home personal computer PC etc. The mobile device may be configured with a media management module and the mobile device may be registered with a network operator that provides the distribution network . Thus the mobile device may therefore interact with the conditional access device . The signaling may also be provided via WiFi or over a cellular network.

The media management module enables the mobile device to access the conditional access device to view content . Through the media management module subscribers may manage their media consumption and experiences.

The mobile device may have access to a wireless network such as a cellular telecommunications network via a wireless signal . The mobile device may include a WiFi transceiver not shown to establish WiFi communication with a repeater IR device which in turn communicates with STBs via an IR signal . The WiFi signal is converted to an IR signal that is used to control access to content for the subscriber s TV . The mobile device tracks the program the subscriber is watching through the functional relationship with the STB through communication using the IR device . The back office gathers and maintains subscriber related intelligence. For example the back office may determine that the subscriber is associated with a subscription plan and identify the current environment of the subscriber.

The back office media channel content information may be gathered as it is common domain information i.e. what is being shown on what channel at what time. Once the system has identified this type of information via external systems which may include third parties such as an advertiser wherein advertisements may placed on a particular program in an overlay. The external systems also may include a network back office and media sources such as Tribune Media Services.

As a specific example a subscriber may be in the living room watching program A using the mobile device as a remote control device. The traditional advertising may not necessarily be playing in the segments with program A. A different type of targeted advertising i.e. supplemental information may be provided to the mobile device depending on what type of advertisement the consumer has been determined to react to. Additionally a particular advertisement may be shown through the STB and the subscriber may access their mobile device to access the Web Interface Server provided for downloading a brochure associated with the product shown in the advertisement. Thus the mobile device and content shown on the subscriber s television may be synchronized or correlated. The mobile device may act as an interactive guide without having to launch an interactive guide on the television using an overlay to program A. A phone application server couples the smart phone or mobile device to the back office to allow a user to establish preferences associated with the mobile device process user data to analyze preferences associated with the mobile device and to provide recommendations based on the identified tendencies.

A return path from the STB to the back office is unnecessary for this specific example. Additionally distribution network may be bypassed when the mobile device is used to respond to any advertisement thereby enabling these services to be provided and or licensed independently. The entity that processes the advertisement response can be a centralized clearing house which may be independent of the service provider.

Information associated with a subscriber is maintained in the back office . For example when a subscriber changes the channel this information may be stored at a central warehouse . The stored information is made available by business roles and as part of a recommendation engine. Information may be provided to the subscriber based on past viewing information. The subscriber may be presented with information that is provided by an advertiser based on the stored information or the recommendation engine may provide suggestions based on the stored information. In addition sales research traffic and content asset management information may be maintained at the central warehouse .

True synchronization may be provided to identify what the subscriber is watching. For example content identifiers such as high frequency audio tones may be embedded into the signal. Then if the subscriber s phone is turned on the microphone can listen for the high frequency tones and identify the content that the subscriber is watching. A relationship may thus be associated with what is going on in media consumption by the subscriber.

Other identification methods and systems may be used. For example audio signal may be blocked. Codes such as 3D codes may be used. Further a cell phone may be used to capture a barcode that is used to identify an object associated with the barcode.

A message processing server may also be provided to receive TXT or SMS messages and to process the received messages. In this instance the smart phone does not need to use its Internet capabilities. A commercial for an upcoming show may provide information to the user of the smart phone detailing instructions for the user to record a show by texting CSI040 to MYDVR 69387 or to request more information regarding a product by texting PRODUCT to ADINFO 234636 etc. The message processing server correlates the TXT message to account information maintained at the back office based on identification of the transmitting device. The message processing server may then responds accordingly. For example a message may be transmitted by the message processing server so that the show is scheduled on the user s DVR provides confirmation to the customer e.g. via text or email message and or responds with any error information e.g. informs the user that registration and or subscription is required for this service. A specialized application may also be provided on the smart device to support additional functions see .

The smart phone application connects with the central back office systems to establish an individual consumer profile setting content viewing media marketing coupon and purchasing preferences. Many homes will have more than one cell phone and or mobile device and each mobile device will have associated profile data such that each mobile device may be targeted differently. Each mobile device supplies the back office systems with a level of information that the user is willing to provide to the services provider. The guide and application module can then use the preferences to identify tendencies and begin to provide recommendations.

The consumer uses the smart phone application via Phone Connection to communicate with the guide and applications module ultimately viewing a what s on guide and a recommendations list. Additionally consumers can then browse the guide on their smart phone to select their shows and schedule them for future viewing. Media listings for all media sources i.e. Tribune media for cable Satellite TV downloadable movie sources etc must be accessed and locally stored for the customer s media experience.

The central Ad Manager then begins pushing relevant advertising and the ability to impulse purchase goods and services being shown on television. The advertising may be shown in real time and may enable 1 Click ordering. Television browsing is provided through a central Web based Sources function that is enabled via the media management module in the mobile device to allow the customer to shop connect with friends via 3party social networking sources i.e. FaceBook Twitter MySpace etc. use a convenient media organizer to watch their favorite shows in real time with the show etc. Mobile content and on screen content are then integrated under one basic platform which readily combines lowest common denominators for phones televisions and network programming.

For example a content provider such as movie studio may provide a promotion announcing the release of a new movie showing at a theatre or available for purchase. A subscriber may access an online ticket provider to purchase a movie ticket for the new release. Alternatively the subscriber may navigate to an online commerce source to purchase the product. Further some products are not typically advertised on television. However if such a company releases a new product that has a wide demographic of people who would use the new product the company may promote the new produce on television and then drive the subscriber to an online commerce site to allow the subscriber to purchase the product.

The system therefore provides a direct or even almost real time interaction with the advertiser through the web sources . In addition the interaction is not meant to be limited to purchases. Based on the profile of the subscriber interaction with a mobile device and the ad manager may allow coupons event tickets etc. to be provided.

Thus advertisements may be targeted for the individual based on their profile. However anyone watching program A may be provided with certain types of advertisements as opposed to only certain types of advertisements being provided to a particular person based on their profile. To prevent disintermediation an advertisement and related subscriber actions are not passed directly to an online commerce site. Rather a clearinghouse server is used to deliver the information to the online commerce site. This allows the services provider to maintain information that may be used in negotiations with online commerce sites. Billing and Reporting must support Cost per acquisition CPA billing model on top of the Cost per thousand CPM and Cost per inquiry CPI models.

In addition high order requirements for fulfillment and advertising connections with 3parties must include 

The mobile device may be coupled to a back office using the media management module for establishing user preferences associated with the mobile device . The back office system may also be provided an identification of a level of information that the user wishes to provide . Tendencies associated with the user of the mobile device are identified using a guide and application module in the back office to analyze preferences associated with the mobile device and to provide recommendations based on the identified tendencies . A content guide on the mobile device may be browsed by using the media management module to select content and to schedule content for future viewing . The user may interact with the content to select products for purchase using the media management module .

Embodiments implemented on computer readable media may refer to a mass storage device such as a hard disk or CD ROM drive. However it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that tangible computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed or utilized by a processing device e.g. server or communications network provider infrastructure.

By way of example and not limitation computer readable media may include but is not limited to RAM ROM EPROM EEPROM flash memory or other solid state memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other tangible medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by a processing device.

As mentioned briefly above a number of program modules and data files may be stored and arranged for controlling the operation of processing devices. Thus one or more processing devices may be configured to execute instructions that perform the operations of embodiments of the present invention.

It should also be appreciated that various embodiments of the present invention can be implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a processing device and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the processing devices. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance requirements. Accordingly logical operations including related algorithms can be referred to variously as operations structural devices acts or modules. It will be recognized by one skilled in the art that these operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software firmware special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof without deviating from the spirit and scope of the present invention as recited within the claims set forth herein.

Memory thus may store the computer executable instructions that when executed by processor cause the processor to implement a cross platform smart phone mobile application server according to an embodiment of the invention as described above with reference to .

The foregoing description of the exemplary embodiment of the invention has been presented for the purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. It is intended that the scope of the invention be limited not with this detailed description but rather by the claims appended hereto.

