---

title: Integrated link statistics within an application
abstract: To enhance the user experience for users of an application, such as a web browser, the application obtains statistics on shortened links that are displayed in an application or that are associated with displayed unshortened links. The statistics may include, for example, a number of times that content available via an unshortened link was viewed via its associated shortened link. The statistics are applied to enhance the ability of users of the application to locate relevant content. For example, the statistics may be shown in visual association with a link, or a set of links may be ordered at least in part based on the statistics associated with the links, or the links may be visually emphasized based on the statistics.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08386915&OS=08386915&RS=08386915
owner: RockMelt, Inc.
number: 08386915
owner_city: Moutain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100726
---
This application is related to application Ser. No. 12 698 064 filed on Feb. 1 2010 and entitled Integrated Saved Search Results and to application Ser. No. 12 765 812 filed on Apr. 22 2010 and entitled Integrated Adaptive URL Shortening Functionality which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention generally relates to the field of software systems and more specifically to techniques for using statistics on link usage within the user interface of an application. The links to which the statistics pertain may be shortened links produced by a link shortening service or may also be unshortened links for which a shortened form has been created on some link shortening service or unshortened links for which no shortened form is known to have been created.

Users of the Internet frequently share links e.g. URLs related to content of interest. For example a user might share a web page of interest with the user s friends by typing or pasting the web page s URL into an email into a text message of a social networking or microblogging service such as TWITTER or into a message posting to be placed on the user s page on a social networking site such as FACEBOOK.

The length of links often proves inconvenient for sharing purposes. For example a URL having a lengthy domain name and or path may be inadvertently broken across multiple lines when processed by email systems thus rendering it incapable of being used directly when clicked on by a recipient of the email. Also message sharing services social networking sites and other online messaging systems may impose maximum character requirements on a user s messages thereby restricting the use of long URLs in a message. Furthermore long URLs can appear indecipherable and intimidating to users leading to user reluctance to click on them.

For these reasons URL shortening services have been created to facilitate the shortening of URLs and the subsequent use thereof. A typical URL shortening service saves a mapping between an original unshortened URL and a shortened version thereof. When a user clicks a shortened URL the user s computer obtains a page from the URL shortening service which then redirects the user s computer to the original version of the URL that was associated with the shortened version.

The URL shortening services used to shorten the URLs also typically track statistics about the use of content such as web pages through the associated shortened URLs. For example a URL shortening service might track how many times a particular web page was viewed via clicks on a particular shortened URL associated with the web page or an aggregate number of times the web page was accessed via clicks on any of its shortened links or the number of distinct times that the URL was shortened as a proxy for the number of people who shared the URL.

Statistics may be obtained for URLs including unshortened URLs in other ways as well. These statistics constitute valuable information about the URLs and associated content to which they correspond but the information is not currently leveraged to provide viewers of content with insights about the relevance of the associated content.

To provide an improved user experience for users of an application such as a web browser embodiments of the invention obtain statistics for links that are displayed in an application. More specifically the application obtains a list of links or items containing links such as a list of search results having associated links or social network messages having embedded links. The links may include both original unshortened links and shortened links produced by a link shortening service. The application also obtains link statistics from a statistics source where the statistics may include for example a number of times that content available via an unshortened link was viewed via its associated shortened link. The statistics are applied to enhance the ability of users of the application to locate relevant content. For example the list of links or items containing links may be ordered at least in part based on the statistics associated with the links. Alternatively and or additionally the statistics may be displayed in visual association with one or more of the links or the links may be visually emphasized based on the statistics.

The figures depict embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following description that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

In brief a user using a client views content items e.g. a web page from the remote content provider . Some content items such as web pages are accessible via a link e.g. a URL that identifies the content item. The user of the client may also use the link shortening service to create and register a shortened version of the link which the user then disseminates to other users of other clients e.g. within postings on social networks text messages web pages and other content items. The other users then access the content via the shortened link e.g. by clicking on the shortened link and the link shortening service provides the full link to the accessed content and updates statistics on the use of the shortened link. A user of the client uses an application e.g. a web browser to view content items containing a shortened link. The application further obtains the statistics stored by the link shortening service and presents them to the user and or uses them as one factor influencing the presentation of the content item s .

In one embodiment the application e.g. a web browser tracks statistics on user interactions with the links shown within the application user interface and provides them to a statistics server which aggregates the statistics from the client and any other clients running the application. The application may then obtain statistics from the statistics server instead of or in addition to obtaining them from the link shortening service .

The content provider provides content items viewable by the clients and . The content provider is located remotely from the clients i.e. on a separate physical computing device accessible via the network . For example the content provider could be a web server providing web pages accessed via associated URLs the web pages being viewed using browser applications of the clients .

The content provider may alternatively and or additionally act as a web feed server. A web feed is a data format used for providing periodically updated content to clients that have subscribed to the feed. Typically a content provider publishes a web feed and provides through the web feed updated data for the subscribers to the feed. Examples of web feeds include feeds that provide news headlines on a news website weather forecasts stock tickers the status information of online friends of a social networking service and updates made to a user s online friends web pages. To receive a feed a user typically first registers the feed with an aggregator running on the user s client. Once a feed is registered with an aggregator the aggregator periodically checks for any updated data available on the feed and retrieves the updated or new feed data.

The content provider may make discrete units of its data available to clients similar to the way in which a feed server provides discrete data units in a feed. The discrete data units represent individual objects with semantic meaning such as message posting objects user objects and group objects on a social network or individual messages on a message sharing service. For example a content provider providing a social network might not only provide web pages presenting the aggregate data for a particular user such as a set of message postings of a particular user but might additionally make the individual user postings themselves individually accessible e.g. via a search application programming interface API . Such discrete data units may but need not be associated with a link e.g. a URL .

A content provider might also act as a search engine such as GOOGLE indexing web pages or other documents of other content providers and providing a set of search results in response to a query each search result having a link to the web page or other document described by the search result.

Thus the clients can obtain a variety of content items from different content providers such as web pages either through manual entry of associated URLs or through search results provided by a search engine individual discrete data units such as user postings e.g. by querying a social network received either via a feed or in response to a query and the like.

The various content items provided by the content providers such as web pages feed items and individual discrete data units may have links embedded within them and these links may be in shortened form. For example a message sent by a user to subscribers via a message sharing service such as TWITTER might include the URL of a video that the user considered interesting. The URL may be represented in shortened form within the message due to automatic shortening by the message sharing service manual shortening by the user or the like.

The link shortening service registers an unshortened link in association with a shortened version of the link the shortened version of the link having a domain name corresponding to the link shortening service . A link as described herein comprises address text that points to a web page or other content available via a network such as the Internet. One common example of a link is a uniform resource locator URL which has address text such as http www.interestingsite.com presentations gkchesterton 2006 essays.html pointing to a document essays.html and the description set forth below frequently refers to URLs. However it is appreciated that links are not limited to URLs but may include uniform resource identifiers URIs or other textual means of identifying documents or other content. As an example of link shortening the original URL http www.interestingsite.com presentations gkchesterton 2006 essays.html might be shortened to http short.com qwy128. Requests to view the content corresponding to a shortened URL are made to the link shortening service e.g. to a system corresponding to the domain short.com which looks up the original URL based on the path portion of the shortened URL e.g. qwy128 determines the associated original URL and causes a redirect to the content associated with the original URL e.g. via an automatic HTTP redirect using HTTP 3xx status codes.

For purposes of future discussion note that a URL is of the form protocol username password domain port path query string anchor where many of these components are optional. Thus the original URL above has protocol http domain www.interestingsite.com and path presentations gkchesterton 2006 essays.html .

The link shortening service additionally updates its statistics to reflect the use of the shortened link. The statistics tracked by the link shortening service may include a variety of different kinds of information on the use of the shortened link such as a number of clicks on the shortened link domains or countries from which the clicks came a distribution of the clicks over time distribution of the clicks over demographic data such as age household income etc. if available and the like. The link shortening service further has an interface for providing the tracked statistics or some subset or derived form thereof to clients. For example the link shortening service may provide a summary web page accessible to a registered user of the service the summary web page presenting a summary of the various statistics . The link shortening service further provides an application programming interface API e.g. a web services based API that clients may use to programmatically obtain the statistics. The statistics may not be associated solely with a particular shortened URL but may additionally be associated with the original unshortened link to which the shortened version of the link refers. For example the link shortening service might provide not only statistics about a shortened URL http short.com qwy128 such as that it was clicked 227 times but also might provide statistics about the original unshortened URL such as that that the original unshortened URL http www.interestingsite.com presentations gkchesterton 2006 essays.html was accessed via shortened URLs a total of 5 256 times e.g. 227 times via the shortened URL http short.com qwy128 and the remaining 5 029 times via other shortened versions .

The client uses the application such as a web browser to view content items provided by the content providers via the network . The application comprises a number of modules described in more detail below with respect to to obtain content including links and statistics associated with the links and to present information according to the statistics. In some embodiments the application itself contributes to the creation of the statistics. User interfaces of the application are described below with respect to .

In one embodiment the application has a user interface displaying links with which the user can interact and tracks statistics on user interactions with the links shown within the user interface. For example in one embodiment the application is a custom web browser and tracks counts of how often a given link has been clicked how often and by what techniques the link has been shared total time spent viewing content pointed to by the link and the like such statistics being applicable to both shortened and unshortened links. The tracked statistics need not be of the same types as those tracked by the link shortening service and stored in the statistics repository . The application may also associate each statistic with a user with whom the statistic is associated for example a link click statistic can be associated with the user who clicked the link. The user identity may be represented by an identifier specific to the application itself to an identifier corresponding to an external account on a social network or the like. The application provides the tracked link statistics to the statistics server .

The statistics server then aggregates the statistics from the client and any other clients that run the application and report their tracked statistics to the statistics server storing the aggregated statistics in a statistics repository . The aggregation may include computing totals for each statistic e.g. link click counts across all of the clients or computing an average of the statistics and may include all the statistics or only the statistics for a particular time period of interest. The statistics server may additionally store user information in order to associate the statistics with particular users via any user identities provided in association with the statistics. For example an identifier of a particular user of the application could be associated with a social networking account of that user so that a statistic associated with that user can be further associated with information about that user from the user s social network account for example . The statistics server further provides an API by which a client can obtain desired statistics. The application may then obtain statistics from the statistics server instead of or in addition to obtaining them from the link shortening service .

The content provider may be implemented by any device capable of serving content to clients such as a conventional computer server system running a web server process. Similarly the clients and the client may be implemented by any computing device capable of viewing content over the network such as a personal computer laptop computer personal digital assistant or mobile phone. It is appreciated that although the clients and are depicted as conceptually separate with certain content viewing and link shortening operations being performed by the clients and viewing of the resulting shortened links being performed by the client any or all of these operations may be performed by a client .

For simplicity depicts only one link shortening service one statistics server and one client although it is appreciated that there could be any number of each. For example a client could use any number of different link shortening services . Similarly a given link shortening service might be replicated or otherwise distributed across multiple servers for purposes such as load balancing.

The network represents the communication pathways between the client the content providers the clients and the link shortening service . In one embodiment the network uses standard Internet communications technologies and or protocols. Thus the network can transmit data using technologies such as Ethernet 802.11 integrated services digital network ISDN asynchronous transfer mode ATM etc. Similarly the networking protocols used on the network can include the transmission control protocol Internet protocol TCP IP the hypertext transport protocol HTTP the simple mail transfer protocol SMTP the file transfer protocol FTP the extensible messaging and presence protocol XMPP etc. The data exchanged over the network can be represented using technologies and or formats including the hypertext markup language HTML the extensible markup language XML JavaScript object notation JSON the really simple syndication RSS format etc. In addition all or some links can be encrypted using conventional encryption technologies such as the secure sockets layer SSL transport layer security TLS secure HTTP HTTPS and or virtual private networks VPNs . In another embodiment the entities can use custom and or dedicated data communications technologies instead of or in addition to the ones described above.

More specifically the content fetch module obtains content items from the content providers . The content items may comprise links such as URLs. For example each search result from a search engine content provider comprises an unshortened URL that links to the content referenced by the search result. Similarly a message posting from a social networking service or a textual message from a message sharing service may include one or more shortened or unshortened URLs added to the body of the posting message by a user to reference external content that the author of the posting message wished to share.

The content fetch module obtains the content items from the content providers using the method of requesting that the various content providers accept. For example to obtain a search result of a search engine content provider the content fetch module submits a query such as a textual string of query terms. Similarly to obtain a set of discrete data units such as user status updates or message postings from a social network content provider the content fetch module uses the API provided by the social network e.g. a web services based API to submit a query for the units of interest such as message postings containing a certain set of keywords.

The link statistics module obtains statistics for a given link from one or more statistics sources such as a link shortening service and or a statistics server . The links for which statistics are obtained may be in either a shortened form produced by the link shortening service or they may be in their original unshortened forms. When obtaining statistics for a shortened form of a link the link statistics module queries the link shortening service that created the shortened form for its stored statistics using the link shortening service s API . As noted the particular link shortening service that created the shortened form can be determined from the domain name of the shortened link. As one example the obtained statistics for a particular shortened link might state that the shortened link had been clicked i.e. the associated contents had been viewed using the shortened link 345 times.

In one embodiment the link statistics module additionally obtains statistics for an unshortened form of a link based on the statistics for the various shortened forms if any of the unshortened link on one or more link shortening services . For example the link statistics module might submit a query for statistics on the unshortened link to each of a predetermined set of well known link shortening services that provide statistics for an unshortened link. In this case each link shortening service aggregates its statistics such as the aggregate number of clicks for all the registered shortened forms of the unshortened link and provides the aggregated statistics to the link statistics module in response to a request via the API . As one example to obtain statistics for the unshortened URL http www.interestingsite.com presentations gkchesterton 2006 essays.html the link statistics module might query a first link shortening service and obtain the statistic that the shortened forms of that URL registered with the first link shortening service were clicked an aggregate 2 017 times and further query a second link shortening service and obtain the statistic that the shortened forms of the second link shortening service were clicked an aggregate 1 312 times. The link statistics module could then report that the shortened forms of the unshortened URL were clicked a total of 3 329 times across both link shortening services.

Thus the link statistics module may for example obtain statistics for the unshortened link of a search result obtained from a search engine as well as from a shortened link located in the body of a content item such as a posting from a social network or message sharing service or other discrete data unit.

In one embodiment the link statistics module further processes the statistics provided by the statistics source e.g. the link shortening service or the statistics server to further enhance the relevance of the statistics for the user of the application . For example the link statistics module may obtain information about the user from a social network such as the identities of the user s friends and filter the statistics to include only those corresponding to the user or the user s friends or provide a greater weight to those statistics than to the other statistics. The ability to identify a particular user associated with a particular statistic is enhanced when the statistics are obtained from a statistics server that tracks identities of application users from which the statistics were derived. In one embodiment such further processing of statistics is performed by the statistics server itself.

In one embodiment the link statistics module obtains the statistics from the statistics server instead of or in addition to the statistics obtained from the link shortening service . That is the link statistics module of the application can query the statistics server for any statistics that it may have related to a given link either shortened or unshortened . If the application on the client or any other client or had tracked statistics on that link and provided them to the statistics server then statistics would be available for that link. If statistics on a given link are available from both the link shortening service and the link statistics server the link statistics module may select one or the other or may combine them.

In one embodiment the link statistics module calculates a relevance measure of a link based at least in part on the associated link statistics. In one embodiment the relevance measure determination is user specific and thus is based on additional information known about the user of the application such as browsing history interests profile information obtained from a social network friends on the social network or the like. The relevance measure may be derived from a particular one of the statistics such as link click count or it may be derived from a combination of multiples ones of the statistics. As an example of the latter the relevance measure could be a score based on the click counts on the link by the user s friends on a social networking service and on the total spent by those friends viewing the content pointed to by those links. Relevance measures above some predetermined relevance threshold may be considered to indicate that the link is highly relevant and thus should be treated differently from other links such as being displayed with a special visual emphasis.

The result presentation module applies the shortened link statistics to affect the presentation of the various content items obtained by the content fetch module. In one embodiment the result presentation module displays a graphical representation of the statistics in visual association with a link within the user interface of the application . For example when a link is designated such as by moving the mouse cursor over the link the result presentation module may display the statistics within tooltip text in association with the link. The result presentation module may additionally provide a graphical shortcut to a page of the link shortening service displaying the statistics such as a link to a statistics summary web page of the link shortening service. In one embodiment the result presentation module provides the graphical representations of the statistics for unshortened as well as shortened links provided that at least some shortened forms of the unshortened links exist on some link shortening service and thus have corresponding shortened link statistics. In embodiments in which statistics are obtained from the statistics server the results presentation module may present statistics even for links for which no shortened forms have been created.

Alternatively and or additionally the result presentation module may order content items having links with associated link statistics in the user interface of the application the order based at least in part on the associated link statistics. For example the result presentation module may use the link statistics e.g. number of clicks on a shortened or unshortened link associated with a content item s link as one factor affecting the ordering along with other factors such as an original order in which the content items were provided by their content provider s and the like.

The results presentation module may perform this ordering for different types of content items with links such as content items in a feed or search results from a search engine. In the case of search results from a search engine which have links in unshortened rather than shortened form the ordering is based on statistics on unshortened links. Some of the search result links may lack any shortened link statistics. In such a case those search results may be ordered according to the remaining ordering factors or in embodiments in which unshortened link statistics are obtained from the statistics server the search results may be ordered at least in part according to the unshortened link statistics.

In the case of content items in a feed such as postings on a social network some of the content items may lack a link some may have a shortened link and others may have an unshortened link. In one embodiment a statistic type is chosen to be consistent across the shortened and unshortened links. For example in the case of unshortened links if a link shortening service provides aggregate statistics for a number of shortened links along with a number of shortened links that the aggregate statistics represent the results presentation module and or the link statistics module can average the aggregate statistics to obtain an average for one single shortened link. This averaging of statistics for the unshortened links allows a more consistent comparison with the statistics for individual shortened links. Alternatively rather than averaging the statistics for unshortened links the unshortened link corresponding to a shortened link may be obtained and aggregate statistics may be obtained for that unshortened link. In another embodiment as noted the statistics from the statistics server if present can be used instead of those from the link shortening service .

In another embodiment the result presentation module provides visual emphasis to particular links based on their associated statistics. For example visual emphasis may be employed where a given link has been found to be highly relevant based on a calculated relevance measure. Such visual emphasis serves to draw a user s attention to the emphasized link thus alerting the user to the fact that the link may be of particular relevance to the user. Visual emphasis may be implemented using one or more of a number of different techniques such as highlighting of the link background changing font properties of the link text such as using larger or bolder text adding animation effects such as blinking . Adding visual emphasis in this manner can be employed in the contexts both of a set of search results e.g. highlighting search result links likely to be of relevance and of a link embedded within content of a single discrete data item such as a social network message posting or a message of a message sharing service e.g. bolding the link within the message if it is likely to be of relevance .

It is appreciated that the application may have additional functionality beyond that provided by the modules depicted in which focus specifically on the use of statistics associated with links.

Each feed displayed in the shortcuts area provides new articles or other data items made available by a particular content provider . Subscription to a feed and the associated addition of the feed to the shortcuts area may be accomplished manually by a user e.g. by clicking on a Subscribe button for an RSS feed on a web page by indicating an interest in given keywords of a micro blogging service or in a given user s postings on a social networking site and the like. Alternatively subscription may be automatic or semi automatic for example logic within the browser could note that the user frequently visits a web page or web site associated with an RSS feed and accordingly add the feed to the shortcuts area or request the user s permission to do so. In one embodiment selecting e.g. clicking on a graphical representation displays the items associated with the corresponding feed. The items can be displayed in the content area or in a separate window for example.

For example illustrates feed items associated with the feed represented by feed icon A displayed within a pop out feed window docked outside the main window . The depicted feed includes messages of a message sharing service to which the user is subscribed each message being displayed within separate portions of the feed window . Some of the feed items may contain links within their content. For example feed item A pertains to a news report of a scientific discovery and contains a shortened URL A pointing to the content of the report. The browser application may display the shortened URL in its shortened form as with feed item A or it may automatically expand the shortened URL to its full original form by contacting the link shortening service that produced it. Feed items with links may additionally comprise a graphical representation A indicating a level of popularity of the links as measured by the link statistics. For example the graphical indicator A depicted in contains a number of bars with more bars representing more viewings by users of the content referenced by the shortened link. Hovering the mouse on or near the shortened URL A or the graphical indicator A additionally causes the display of a more precise summary of the statistics as shown in the tooltip text A listing the precise number of times that the shortened URL was viewed.

The feed items can be ordered according to a number of different factors and thus may have an order different from the order in which their corresponding content providers provided them. For example the feed items can be ordered based on activity on a social networking site with respect to the links in the feed items e.g. sharing of the links on the site on frequency of occurrence of links within the feed items in a discussion stream such as that provided by a micro blogging service such as TWITTER and the like. Further the shortened URL statistics for the feed item A can be used as one additional factor in determining the order in which the feed items are displayed within the feed window . For example feed items having shortened URL statistics with greater values may be given a higher ordering position than feed items having shortened URL statistics with lesser values and feed items lacking any such statistics.

The example user interface additionally comprises a search area . The search area includes a query entry area into which a query namely South African Penguins has been entered and a set of search results obtained and displayed responsive to entry of the query. The search results are obtained from a content provider such as a search engine or from a social network system or message sharing system that allow the client to obtain discrete data units such as individual message postings. In the embodiment depicted in the search results are obtained from three content providers a search engine My SE a social network Soc Net and a blogging service Chatter the My SE tab is currently selected and thus the search results displayed are those obtained from the corresponding search engine. In other embodiments the search results may be displayed in other groupings such as interspersed in a single search results list sorted according to relevance scores each search result displaying an associated indication of the content provider e.g. the text Soc Net for the social networking data source or as a set of groups sequentially displayed each under a heading containing an associated indication of the data source.

Each search result may have one or more links associated with it. For example each search result obtained from a search engine content provider includes a URL referencing the source of the data. Search results obtained from social networking sites or message sharing services may also include a link within the content such as a URL added by a user and referring to external content.

Like the feed items the search results can be ordered according to a number of different factors including aggregate shortened URL statistics. For example the search results with high values of the aggregate shortened URL statistics e.g. high aggregate clicks viewings can be ranked higher in the order. Likewise the search results may also be ordered based on statistics derived from the statistics server .

It is appreciated that the user interface is purely for purposes of example and that other user interface configurations could equally be employed. The various areas of the chrome for example could be displayed in different locations of the user interface such as along the bottom edge or as individual floating windows or toolbars separately movable from the main browser window e.g. after being torn off from the main window by the user . The user interface need not comprise all the components described above and or it may comprise additional components not described. The various components may also be merged and or separated in manners different from those described above for example the query entry could be located within the search area rather than within the main toolbar.

The link statistics module obtains link statistics associated with at least some of the links comprised by the content items by querying at least one link shortening service and or the statistics server . The link statistics may include statistics on individual shortened links aggregate shortened link statistics on unshortened links and or statistics tracked by the application and provided to the statistics server .

The presentation module then presents the content items based at least in part on the obtained statistics. For example the presentation module could display a graphical representation of the statistics in visual association with one of the links it could order the content items based at least in part on their associated link statistics or it could visually emphasize a link based on the statistics.

The present invention has been described in particular detail with respect to one possible embodiment. Those of skill in the art will appreciate that the invention may be practiced in other embodiments. First the particular naming of the components and variables capitalization of terms the attributes data structures or any other programming or structural aspect is not mandatory or significant and the mechanisms that implement the invention or its features may have different names formats or protocols. Also the particular division of functionality between the various system components described herein is merely for purposes of example and not mandatory functions performed by a single system component may instead be performed by multiple components and functions performed by multiple components may instead performed by a single component.

Some portions of above description present the features of the present invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules or by functional names without loss of generality.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the above discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as determining or displaying or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Certain aspects of the present invention include process steps and instructions described herein in the form of an algorithm. It should be noted that the process steps and instructions of the present invention could be embodied in software firmware or hardware and when embodied in software could be downloaded to reside on and be operated from different platforms used by real time network operating systems.

The present invention also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored on a computer readable medium that can be accessed by the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as but is not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs magnetic or optical cards application specific integrated circuits ASICs or any type of computer readable storage medium suitable for storing electronic instructions and each coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore the computers referred to in the specification such as the client the content providers the clients and the link shortening service may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability. The computers include conventional components such as secondary storage devices e.g. hard disks primary storage e.g. main memory such as RAM network access hardware e.g. network interface cards and the like.

The algorithms and operations presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may also be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will be apparent to those of skill in the art along with equivalent variations. In addition the present invention is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It is appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the present invention as described herein and any references to specific languages are provided for invention of enablement and best mode of the present invention.

The present invention is well suited to a wide variety of computer network systems over numerous topologies. Within this field the configuration and management of large networks comprise storage devices and computers that are communicatively coupled to dissimilar computers and storage devices over a network such as the Internet.

Finally it should be noted that the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. Accordingly the disclosure of the present invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

