---

title: Method and apparatus for index generation and use
abstract: An approach is provided for generating a searchable index including an associated object graph. Data objects of a database are converted into corresponding rows in a set of searchable columns. An object graph corresponding to each row of the searchable columns are determined. An index including the set of searchable columns and the corresponding object graphs are generated.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08655894&OS=08655894&RS=08655894
owner: Nokia Corporation
number: 08655894
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20100426
---
Service providers and device manufacturers e.g. wireless cellular etc. are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. Important differentiators in the industry are application and network services as well as capabilities to support and scale these services. In particular these applications and services can include accessing and managing data utilized for example by online store services. In the past these services have utilized different types of persistent storage to facilitate viewing searching and changing information. The functions of such a persistent storage can include Create Read Update and Delete CRUD . With this functionality many of these persistent stores include basic retrieval features but lack rapid search and access. Service providers that use such persistent storage thus face significant challenges in optimizing search and access to persistent storage.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for generating a searchable index with an attached object graph. The searchable index can be developed based on a database that uses an object relational mapping.

According to one embodiment a method comprises converting a plurality of data objects of a database to corresponding rows in a set of searchable columns. The method also comprises determining an object graph corresponding to each row of the searchable columns. The method further comprises generating an index including the set of searchable columns and the corresponding object graphs.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprising at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code the at least one memory and the computer program code configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to convert a plurality of data objects of a database to corresponding rows in a set of searchable columns. The apparatus is also caused to determine an object graph corresponding to each row of the searchable columns. The apparatus is further caused to generate an index including the set of searchable columns and the corresponding object graphs.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carrying one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to convert a plurality of data objects of a database to corresponding rows in a set of searchable columns. The apparatus is also caused to determine an object graph corresponding to each row of the searchable columns. The apparatus is further caused to generate an index including the set of searchable columns and the corresponding object graphs.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for converting a plurality of data objects of a database to corresponding rows in a set of searchable columns. The apparatus also comprises means for determining an object graph corresponding to each row of the searchable columns. The apparatus further comprises means for generating an index including the set of searchable columns and the corresponding object graphs.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program for generating a searchable index with an attached object graph are disclosed. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

One type of database is a flat database. A flat database includes a table of data. In this manner a database can populate a record e.g. a row of data corresponding to fields of one or more columns. One example of a flat database is a database for taking orders. In this database a record is created for each new order received. Each record can have fields that correspond to columns of information. Because there is a single table fields for customer information such as name and address are stored with the record as well as product information such as product name quantity of the order price for the product an extended price etc. Additionally if the same customer places another order another record is created with the customer information which may be the same as the previous record as well as the customized product information. Using this approach the customer information is duplicated each time an order is received. As duplicate data is received for each record inconsistencies may arise e.g. the customer uses a first name and last name in one entry and a nickname and last name in another entry . As such when a user e.g. a representative of the company taking the order the customer etc. queries the database some of the records that the user desires to obtain may not be returned in a result. Further if the user changes one or more fields of customer information e.g. a billing address each record associated with the customer would need to be found and then updated. As noted previously inconsistencies in the records can result in some of these records that should be updated not being updated. Throughout the Specification examples of various tables and databases are used. These examples are exemplary are not meant to limit the patent in any way.

Another type of database is a relational database. A relational database matches data by using common characteristics of a data set. Thus a relational database can include multiple tables of data that relate to each other through one or more fields. For example the relational database can store the same information as the flat database using two tables an orders table and a customer information table. Each customer can have a set of information e.g. name address credit card number etc. in the customer information table. Further each customer information record can include a unique customer code that serves as a relational key. When the system receives an order from the customer the record in the orders table includes the relational key. With this approach when an update needs to be made the system need only make one update to the customer information table and it can affect all orders. In certain embodiments more than one set of information may be used for the customer information e.g. one set for a home address another set for a vacation home another set for the user s parents home etc. . Each of these sets may further be associated via relational keys. The above includes a simple version of a relational database however in practice multiple relationships and tables can be provided for the relational database. In one example a real estate transaction database includes real estate transaction data for a town. The real estate transactions can be grouped by the year of the transaction sale price of the transaction buyer s last name postal address plot etc. As such relationships can be made between each of these sets of information. As relationships become more and more complex searching these databases using a textual search becomes more and more complex. This is because a separate search may need to be generated to search each of the tables. The separate searches can be time consuming requiring the user of the database e.g. via client to wait.

Although various embodiments are described with respect to relational databases it is contemplated that the approach described herein may be used with other persistent storage. For example a Resource Description Framework RDF storage engine or other types of persistent stores such as object oriented databases may be utilized. In one example a RDF engine can store RDF data in a native representation of a triple store or quad store. These stores can be optimized based on the RDF format to form subject predicate object relationships e.g. a triple to form statements. For example the term Smith knows Robert can be parsed into the subject Smith the predicate knows and the object Robert and then represented as a triple. In the case of a quad store the statement may include four terms instead of the three terms in a triple.

To address the problem described above a system of introduces the capability to generate a searchable index of a relational database with an attached object graph. The searchable index can be geared towards a specific use case optimised for searching for particular information stored in the relational database. Further the object graph can preserve the structured information in the relationship database. In this manner a user of user equipment UEs can query a services platform via a communication network for information stored in the relational database to receive a returned search result for the query. A service interface of the services platform searches an index generated by an index builder .

The index builder generates the index from the relational database and or corresponding data service in charge of managing the relational database . The index builder receives data objects e.g. one or more tables from the relational database via the data service . In certain embodiments a data object is a table or an instance of a table stored in the relational database . Further a data object can include partial tables and or instances of tables. Then the index builder converts the data objects of the database to corresponding rows in a set of searchable columns of an index. Each row of the index can include searchable data e.g. text corresponding to one or more fields associated with a record of one of the tables of the relational database . Further the index row can include searchable data associated with the record from multiple tables associated with the record via one or more relationships. For example the relational database includes a table for each of product variants products publishers device types countries language and digital assets. Each of these tables can be linked to each other via one or more relationship keys. Thus if an index is made based on a product variant an identifier for the product variant can be used to retrieve associated data from the other tables to add to the index row content. In certain embodiments one searchable index field corresponds to a table of the relational database . In other embodiments one searchable index column corresponds to a field of each table. Different variations and combinations of formatting the index can be used based on circumstances. In certain embodiments the searchable columns are formatted to be basic and include text. In this manner the index can be used to provide information to one or more UEs using different applications . These applications can further be coded in different programming languages e.g. Java JavaScript Perl Hypertext Preprocessor PHP etc. . Thus the index may be language independent.

Further the index builder determines an object graph associated with the row of the index . The object graph can be based on a selected table used for generating the index e.g. the product variant table in the above mentioned example . The object graph can be determined by determining one or more relationships between the data object corresponding to the row and one or more other data objects in the relational database . This determination can be made by searching one or more of the other tables for one or more relationship keys associated with the data object. The object graph corresponding to each data graph thus includes a representation of relationships to the other corresponding data objects. In certain embodiments the object graph is encoded in a markup language such as Extensible Markup Language XML or another language such as JavaScript Object Notation JSON . Further the object graph can be serialized and or compressed. One feature of the system is to allow for rapid access to the relational database while maintaining structure and saving memory space. As such the system can include means for generating the searchable columns and or object graphs.

Thus the index builder generates the index . The index can include for each row one or more searchable columns and a corresponding object graph. In this manner a text search can be performed on the index to retrieve a row. The row includes the searchable data as well as the object graph. The searchable data and or the object graph are then caused to be transmitted to the UE as a response to the query. In certain scenarios the response to the query can include one or more rows that match or match at least in part the search query.

By way of example an application e.g. a web browser a database manager etc. that requested the query receives the results. The results are then presented to the user via a user interface . Further the application can decompress the object graph and or deserialize the object graph. In certain embodiments the object graph is fully populated and includes the information that was searched. In other embodiments the object graph includes structural information that is used to provide structure to one or more columns of the row. Further the user may manipulate one or more of the fields in the object graph e.g. an address field associated with a customer table . Because the structure is maintained an update can be sent to the services platform to update the relational database based on the changes.

When the data service receives a request to update the relational database and or periodically the data service can send a request to the index builder to begin update of an associated index . As such the index builder based on the request or periodically can update the indexes . The index builder can determine that a change has occurred in the relational database based on an interrupt the request. Then the index builder updates the index based on the change. In certain embodiments an entire row is replace in other embodiments one or more fields and or the object graph is replaced based on the changes to the relational database . For example if there is a change to the information associated with the data object corresponding to a particular table that also corresponds to one or more columns only those columns and or the object graph need to be updated.

In certain embodiments the index is a Lucene index implemented using Apache Lucene. Lucene is a retrieval software library. Lucene is widely used for its full text searching and indexing capabilities. In a Lucene index textual information is extracted from original data objects e.g. documents . This allows for a full text search using the index. Lucene indexing is one possible technology to implement indexing and searching of the relational database . Other methods of full text searching and or indexing can additionally be utilized.

In one example XML is used to describe the object graph. XML is a set of encoding rules to electronically encode documents. In addition to XML it is contemplated that encoding using other languages or schemes e.g. JSON can be utilized to generate the object graph. By way of example one or more XML language features e.g. tags elements markup content etc. can be utilized to describe the object graph and or index . Further XML may be utilized to describe one or more indexes built by the index builder . As such when a service interface searches the index according to a query from a UE the service interface may utilize efficiencies of parsing XML documents as indexes and index definitions.

By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network not shown a wireless network not shown a telephony network not shown or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

The UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer Personal Digital Assistants PDAs audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

The user interface can include various methods of communication. For example the user interface can have outputs including a visual component e.g. a screen an audio component a physical component e.g. vibrations and other methods of communication. User inputs can include a touch screen interface a scroll and click interface a button interface a microphone etc.

By way of example the UE services platform communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. In this context a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application headers layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

In one embodiment the services platform may interact according to a client server model with applications on UEs . According to the client server model a client process sends a message including a request to a server process e.g. a query for information and the server process responds by providing a service e.g. providing the requested information . The server process may also return a message with a response to the client process. Often the client process and server process execute on different computer devices called hosts and communicate via a network using one or more protocols for network communications. The term server is conventionally used to refer to the process that provides the service or the host computer on which the process operates. Similarly the term client is conventionally used to refer to the process that makes the request or the host computer on which the process operates. As used herein the terms client and server refer to the processes rather than the host computers unless otherwise clear from the context. In addition the process performed by a server can be broken up to run as multiple processes on multiple hosts sometimes called tiers for reasons that include reliability scalability and redundancy among others.

The communication interface can be used to communicate with the data service service interface UEs via the service interface and other devices available over the communication network or associated with the services platform . In certain embodiments the services platform represents a cloud or set of servers. The execution module can receive information e.g. database tables from the data service via the communication interface via methods such as internet protocol fiber optic transmission or any other available communication method. Further the communication interface can be used to populate the index e.g. via the service interface and or directly . Components in the communication network and or communication interface may be utilized to convert one form of communication to another form of data transmission.

The execution module can further receive the data objects from the data service . The data objects can be received by request and or as a part of a periodic process. Further the execution module can generate an index based on one or more data objects. While generating the index index information can be stored in the memory . Moreover when the index is generated the index can be stored in a memory associated with the service interface . Additionally or alternatively the execution module can receive data objects from the data service to update one or more indexes.

Further the service interface can receive query requests from the UE e.g. a client . The service interface can determine whether the query includes a textual search. If the query includes a textual search the service interface can search for the text using one or more fields of one or more of the indexes . In certain embodiments the query is forwarded to search the index without a textual search. In other embodiments the query is forwarded to the data service to resolve query requests for one or more types of requests e.g. a specific request for relational information based on a particular identifier in a particular table .

At step the execution module converts data objects of a database e.g. the relational database to corresponding rows in a set of searchable columns for inclusion in an index . The execution module receives the one or more of the data objects from the data service and or relational database . By way of example the data objects can be received based on a request from the execution module . As such the execution module uses an application programming interface API to communicate with the data service . The execution module then parses the data objects and determines one or more fields of text corresponding to each data object to be included in one or more columns of a searchable index . Further the execution module determines an object graph corresponding to each row of the searchable columns step . In the scenario that the data object has a one to many relationship with other data objects each of the other data objects can be searched in the searchable columns while the object graph stores the structural information associated with each of the other data objects.

The size and format of the tables used in the index may be geared towards addressing a specific use case. As such the index represents a set of tables or portions of tables in the relational database . For example a table can exist to populate the front page of a browser application requesting personalized services based on a type of the UE . As such the page can depend on the type of UE a country associated with the UE or location of the user and or a language associated with the UE . A server of the front page can use one or more programming rules to request the table to populate information for the UE .

In one example a row of the index is generated according to a record in a particular table. The record includes one or more textual fields that are included in one or more columns of the searchable index . For example a customer list may include a field for first name a field for last name and a field for address. In the index each field can have a corresponding column and or a column can include multiple fields. Further the index can include other records that have a relationship with the record. For example a particular customer may be linked to one or more transactions in a transaction table based on one or more relationships e.g. via a key . Thus the execution module can determine additional information corresponding to the record in records of other tables based on one or more relationships. The execution module requests the table and adds the information in the table associated with the record to a field e.g. either by appending to another field of the index or adding another field to the index . In this manner the rows are populated based at least in part on the determined additional information. Moreover the relationship is added to the object graph. In certain embodiments the object graph is also populated with corresponding information. In other embodiments the object graph provides relationships between one or more searchable fields. In this manner the searchable fields and the object graph can be used by a client application to reconstruct the structure associated with the relational database .

Then the index is generated by the execution module step . The index includes the set of searchable columns e.g. the fields and the corresponding object graphs. In certain embodiments the generation of the index includes serializing the object graph. Further in some embodiments the generation of the index includes compressing the object graph. Compression of the object graph can be via one or more conventional approaches such as zipping the object graph. Further the object graph ether compressed or uncompressed can be encoded in base . The client application of the UE can have one or more methods to decode and or decompress the object graph.

Further the execution module can determine that a change has occurred in the relational database step . This may be based on information sent to the index builder from the data service and or as part of a routine polling and synchronization process. Further a part of conducting a transaction by the data service that updates the relational database can include causing at least in part sending of a message to the index builder that the relational database has changed.

When a change occurs in the relational database the index is updated step . The index can be updated by replacing the index with a newly generated index based on the current information in the relational database . Further the index can be updated in a more targeted manner. With this approach if a record or information associated with a record changes in the relational database the record is flagged. A corresponding row to the record is then found in the index . Once found the row is updated and or replaced with the current information stored in the relational database associated with the record.

At step the service interface receives a query from a UE for information associated with the relational database . The query is determined to be a search for information via one or more terms. The service interface determines that the text based searches for the information should be searched for against one or more indexes of the relational database . As such a corresponding index is retrieved from a memory.

The search terms are matched at least in part against one or more rows searchable columns of the index step . This can be done via one or more conventional methods such as using a Lucene library. Further because the index is stored with textual information in the searchable columns the method of searching can be programming language independent. The result of the query can be one or more rows that match or match at least in part the terms and or partial terms associated with the query. The one or more object graphs corresponding to the matched rows can then be selected for transmission to the requesting UE step . The object graphs can be selected as part of the search results. Then the service interface causes at least in part transmission of the matched rows and or corresponding object graphs to the UE step .

Further the service interface can cause at least in part presentation of the information based on the object graph to a user of the UE step . The presentation can be caused by a signal sent by the service interface e.g. a signal including the matched rows and or corresponding object graphs . Then the UE receives the information and reconstructs an instance of the relational database associated with the requested information based on the object graph. As such the UE decompresses and or un serializes the corresponding object graph. In certain embodiments the application of the UE requesting the information has coding allowing the application to parse the object graph while retaining structural information in the relational database . As such if a user of the application changes information of the object graph and or presented fields the UE can send a message to the service interface notifying the service interface about the modification.

The service interface receives the update message from the UE . The service interface then causes updating of the relational database by generating a message to update the relational database according to the message received from the UE . In certain embodiments the message can be forwarded instead of generated. Then the data service receives the message and updates the relational database according to the changed information received from the UE . The relational database is able to be updated because the UE has the structural information from the object graph to recreate an instance of the relational database . Further the message can be specific to the location such as a table that needs to be updated and or the corresponding records of the table to be updated. The location information can be included in the object graph thus allowing the UE to send the update message.

With the above approaches a searchable index with corresponding object graphs is generated for a relational database . The searchable index provides for a manner to search the relational database quickly while still retaining the structure of the relational database . In this manner the backend processing at a services platform is more robust and powerful thus allowing for quicker searches of content stored in the relational database . The storage of the object graph with the searchable index further allows for the reconstruction of the structure of the relational database at the UE . With this approach an application of the UE is able to modify information associated with the relational database . Because the UE has information from the object graph including the structure of the relational database for the portion that the user wishes to modify the user is able to modify the instance of the relational database at a client application and send an update message to update the relational database . Further when the data service managing the relational database receives this message the data service can cause the index builder to update the information in the index . Thus the index is additionally current. An advantage to this mechanism is to provide current information in the index .

The processes described herein for providing generation of an index including a set of searchable columns and corresponding object graphs for a database may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein including for providing user interface navigation information associated with the availability of services may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to generation of an index including a set of searchable columns and corresponding object graphs for a database. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for generating an index including a set of searchable columns and corresponding object graphs for a database. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for generation of an index including a set of searchable columns and corresponding object graphs for a database is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD or plasma screen or printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball or cursor direction keys or motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of application specific ICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for the UE and services platform .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to generate an index including a set of searchable columns and corresponding object graphs for a database. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of causing searches of database related information and receiving and updating the information. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU not shown .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to cause searches of database related information and receiving and updating the information. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

