---

title: Methods and systems for identifying, assessing and clearing conflicts of interest
abstract: Methods and systems for identifying, assessing and clearing conflicts of interest are described herein. Consistent with some embodiments, a conflicts management system receives a conflict search request, and processes the request utilizing a risk matrix that encompass and represents the risk tolerance or risk profile of a law firm. The risk matrix maps certain request types to different search queries and rules that are to be evaluated for a given request type. Based on the execution of the queries and the rules for the request, a score is assigned to a party, such that the score represents the level of risk that would be undertaken if the party was engaged as a client.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08225218&OS=08225218&RS=08225218
owner: The Frayman Group, Inc.
number: 08225218
owner_city: Brooklyn
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100219
---
This patent application claims the benefit of the filing date of the provisional patent application with Application Ser. No. 61 252 993 filed on Oct. 19 2009 entitled Methods and Systems for Identifying Assessing and Clearing Conflicts of Interest which is hereby incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The present disclosure generally relates to knowledge based systems. More specifically the present disclosure relates to methods and systems for identifying assessing and clearing conflicts of interest.

In the legal profession before an attorney or a law firm can engage and represent a potential new client or represent an existing client in a new matter the attorney or law firm must ensure that the new client representation does not and will not present a conflict of interest. In general a conflict of interest exists when the representation of the new client or the new matter for the existing client results in a situation where an attorney s duty of loyalty to an existing client cannot be properly discharged due to the existing client having an interest adverse to the new client. For instance a classic example is a divorce or child custody proceeding in which it is generally impermissible for an attorney or law firm to represent both parties to the proceeding. In some situations an actual conflict of interest can be waived by the client if the attorney or law firm seeks and obtains informed written consent from all affected clients. However in other situations a conflict of interest cannot be waived by a client.

A prohibited or undisclosed client representation involving a conflict of interest can subject an attorney to disciplinary hearings the denial or disgorgement of legal fees or in some cases such as the failure to make mandatory disclosure criminal proceedings. In some jurisdictions a law firm typically cannot represent a client if the firm s interests conflict with those of another client even if separate attorneys within the firm represent the adverse parties unless the attorneys are segregated from the rest of the firm for the duration of the representation causing the conflict. Law firms often employ software based systems in conjunction with their case management and accounting systems in order to meet their duties to monitor their conflicts of interest exposure and to assist in obtaining waivers. However a number of problems exist with the conventional software systems and techniques used for identifying the existence of potential conflicts and clearing those potential conflicts.

A few of the many inefficiencies and problems that arise are described in connection with the illustration of a conventional workflow for performing a conflict check as illustrated in . First after an attorney is contacted by a potential new client requesting representation the attorney will communicate to a junior conflicts clearance analyst the information necessary to run an initial conflict check which results in the generation of a conflicts check report . With many conventional software based conflict clearance systems there is but one interface to the system and that is generally targeted toward a conflicts analyst whose primary responsibility is interacting with the software to generate reports. Accordingly there generally is no interface through which an attorney can interact with the conflict clearance system and therefore the attorney is directly dependent upon the availability skill and knowledge of a conflicts analyst.

Next after receiving the necessary information from the attorney the junior conflicts analyst uses the information provided by the attorney to expand the list of potential parties and to generate and process a search query . With many conventional conflicts checking and clearance systems this operation is as much an art as it is a skill and frequently depends upon the conflicts analyst s personal knowledge. For instance if the conflicts analyst is personally familiar with an identified party the conflicts analyst may have the necessary knowledge to expand the list to include the appropriate additional parties for example such as those with a direct affiliation to the identified party. In any case with conventional conflict clearance systems this step is both time consuming and has varied results.

Again referring to the conventional workflow for processing a conflicts query after generating and processing the search query the junior conflicts analyst analyzes the initial search results to eliminate any obvious false positives and in some cases to refine and re process the search query . Once satisfied with the search results the junior conflicts analyst prepares a formal conflicts report which may then be communicated to a senior analyst or attorney for review. The senior analyst or attorney may use his personal knowledge of informal business rules known to be in place and enforced by the firm to eliminate certain parties identified in the report and or modify or enhance the report before providing the report to the attorney who initially requested the conflicts check . Here again the process is highly dependent upon the personal knowledge of those persons participating in the process. This is problematic for a variety of reasons. First if a key player in the conflicts checking and or clearing process leaves the firm so too does a wealth of knowledge used in processing conflicts checking and clearance requests. Additionally because there may be several persons performing the same processing operations the result of a particular search request will be highly dependent upon which personnel performed each processing step. As such the results of multiple searches can vary greatly from request to request resulting in conflicting reports that cause confusion and uncertainty. Moreover as many of the processing steps are dependent upon personal knowledge of those doing the processing such as the expanding of the parties included in the search query and the manual application of informal business rules critical decisions are often not documented. If problems arise in the future with respect to a particular client representation there may not be sufficient documentation to properly assess whether proper care was taken to avoid a conflict in the first place.

Methods and systems for identifying assessing and clearing conflicts of interest are described. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the various aspects of different embodiments of the present invention. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details.

Consistent with embodiments of the present invention a conflicts management system includes a highly automated adaptable and intelligent rule based mechanism for identifying potential conflicts associated with the representation of potential new clients or new matters for existing clients. In addition the conflicts management system includes an interactive self learning collaborative clearance module for clearing any identified potential conflicts that are not actual conflicts. In general the conflicts management system facilitates a two step process where the first step involves a highly automated process for identifying relevant parties e.g. business entities and people that if engaged by an attorney of the firm could pose conflicts of interest problems. This first step is referred to herein as a conflicts checking process. The second step involves a collaborative method for processing a report resulting from the first step so as to quickly and efficiently establish whether a potential conflict is an actual conflict. This second step is generally referred to as clearing conflicts or a conflicts clearing process.

In some embodiments of the invention the logic providing the first step e.g. the conflicts checking process is embodied in a conflicts identification module that provides various user interface mechanisms by which users e.g. attorneys and conflicts analysts can interact with the conflicts management system including a web based interface and an e mail interface. In some embodiments the conflicts identification module includes a pre processing module with natural language processing algorithms to convert natural language queries e.g. received via email to structured queries that are executed against a variety of internal and in some cases external data sources. After executing the search query or queries to identify the proper party names to be analyzed a set of business rules are evaluated to derive one or more scores e.g. risk scores that are assigned to the potential new client and any parties identified as being related to the potential new client. The identified parties and their associated risk scores are then communicated in a report to the user who initiated the conflict check request.

Consistent with some embodiments the report that is communicated to the user is presented as an interactive report for example formatted as a web page. For instance the report may include user interface elements e.g. buttons drop down lists menus and so forth that enable the user to quickly communicate with other attorneys who are responsible for an existing client engagement that poses a potential conflict with a new client representation. For instance an attorney who requested the report may be able to simply press a button displayed in the report to automatically communicate a request to another attorney for additional information about a representation of an existing client who is displayed in the report as a potential adverse party to the potential new client and for example inquire as to whether the existing client would be likely to provide a waiver allowing the firm or attorney to represent the new client with respect to a particular matter. As such the conflicts clearing process is highly automated collaborative in nature and results in a well documented decision that can be referenced during an audit if necessary.

In some embodiments the collaborative conflicts clearing process may also trigger a variety of post clearance processing tasks. For instance if and when all identified potential conflicts have been cleared a variety of post clearance tasks automatically occur such as establishing the required client and matter number in various systems for billing purposes. As such the conflicts management system provides for tight integration with a number of other firm based resources such as case management systems docketing systems billing finance accounting and time entry systems as well as customer relationship management systems. Other aspects of the inventive subject matter are described below in connection with the description of the attached figures.

In some embodiments the conflicts management system includes a variety of data interfaces and or data integration modules that allow the conflicts management system to access data and services that are external to the conflicts management system . For instance in some embodiments a data integration module may enable the importing of data from another data source. Similarly a data interface may provide the ability to query a data source in real time for example during the processing of a request to generate a conflicts report. Such data sources may be internal e.g. on the LAN or external e.g. on the WAN . Accordingly the data interfaces and or data integration modules provide the conflicts management system with a high degree of integration and interoperability with existing information technology resources and services including by way of example a case management system web server e mail server and financial accounting and time entry system . Of course in other embodiments other data sources and services not specifically shown in may also be integrated with the conflicts management system . Furthermore a variety of external data services may be leveraged by the conflicts management system for example to include Dun Bradstreet CompliNet WorldCheck LexisNexis Capital IQ EquiFax and others.

Consistent with some embodiments the conflicts management system may include an e mail server interface enabling the conflicts management system to receive process and send e mails in an automated manner as part of the conflicts management process. In some embodiments the email integration module may provide for the integration of the conflicts management system with an e mail server such as Microsoft Exchange Server . Using the e mail interface an attorney may direct an e mail containing a natural language query to an e mail address of the conflicts management system . Because the conflicts management system is integrated with the e mail server the e mail is automatically processed and the natural language query is converted to generate a structured query. The structured query is processed to identify relevant party data and associated party attribute data and then several rules are evaluated resulting in report data that is automatically communicated back to the requesting attorney in a formatted report with no additional interaction by a conflicts analyst. By automating the process attorneys are provided an intuitive e mail based interface through which they can interact with the conflicts management system without requiring the assistance of a conflicts analyst.

Similarly in some embodiments the conflicts management system may have a web server interface that makes various functionality of the conflicts management system available via a conventional web browser application to both local and remote users including both attorneys and specialized conflicts analysts. Accordingly in some embodiments attorneys and or conflicts analysts interact with the conflicts managements system via a web based interface. In some embodiments the web interface may be specifically formatted to support one or more mobile devices including mobile phones or smart phones. In some embodiments a native smart phone or mobile phone application may reside and execute on the smart phone or mobile phone device such that interaction with the conflicts management system is via a client based application other than a conventional web browser. In some embodiments the conflicts management system may include or be integrated with a computer based telephony system or module not shown such as an integrated voice response IVR unit. Accordingly in some embodiments an attorney may interact with the conflicts management system via a telephone. In such a scenario a speech to text conversion process may analyze and convert a spoken request to a text based structured query.

In some embodiments the conflicts management system includes one or more data integration modules or data interfaces that provide the conflicts management system with access to other data sources. For instance in some embodiments a data integration module may provide access to data residing at a financial system an accounting system a time entry system a case management system or a customer relationship management system. Accordingly using a data integration module data from these various systems may be imported into a primary database of the conflicts management system . Alternatively the data from these systems may be accessed in real time via a data interface as requests for conflict information are being processed by the conflicts management system . In addition to local data sources in some embodiments the conflicts management system may be operable to import data or query data from a remote third party data source. For example as illustrated in the third party data sources with reference numbers and may provide information about various parties e.g. business entities officers directors employees and other persons as well as information that may be used in assessing a level of risk associated with parties. Such information might include financial information information regarding known links or associations with terrorist or criminal organizations and information regarding legal proceedings in which an entity or person is a named party or any other information deemed relevant for purposes of assessing the risk of representing a party. In some embodiments a third party data source may provide raw data e.g. financial information about a party that can be used in the evaluation of business rules for assessing risk. However in some cases the information provided by a third party data source may be processed data resulting from expert analysis on risk and might include for example a list of parties know to be high risk such as parties that are politically exposed linked to terrorism believed to be involved in money laundering and so on.

In general users of the conflicts management system will interact with the system via a graphical user interface GUI for example provided by a user interface component . In some embodiments the GUI is web based such that interaction with the system occurs via a conventional web browser application. In some embodiments the GUI is provided by a desktop client application. In addition users may interact with the system by both sending e mails directed to an address associated with the system and by receiving automated response e mails directly from the system . Furthermore in some embodiments the conflicts management system includes an application programming interface API which provides a programmatic interface to the system for other applications. Accordingly via the API other internal systems may gain access to data and functionality associated with the conflicts management system . For example in some embodiments a new business intake module not shown may automatically generate one or more requests to generate conflicts check reports. These requests may be communicated to the conflicts management system via the API . The new business intake module may be particularly useful for the batch processing of a large number of potential new clients resulting from a group of lateral attorneys joining a law firm.

In the conflicts management system is shown to be coupled to a local database for storing various types of data including what is generally referred to herein as party data . In the context of the present invention party data includes data that defines and identifies business entities and the persons that own operate and are employed by such business entities. In general a party can be any person or entity subject to representation by a law firm and or subject to the jurisdiction of a particular court. The party data includes not only the specific data that uniquely identifies a party but also the data that can be utilized in assessing the risk that is posed by representing a particular party. Accordingly the party data includes what is generally referred to herein as party attributes data . Party attributes data might include financial information concerning a particular business entity or person. To the extent a firm or attorney has an existing relationship with a particular party any billing information or matter specific information might be utilized as party attributes data for the purpose of assessing the risk of representing that party in a new matter. In some embodiments party attributes data may include one or more pre calculated risk scores for a particular party.

In some embodiments the party data and party attributes data will be stored within data structures e.g. database tables such as those illustrated in . shows a data diagram illustrating an example of two related data structures including a standard party data structure and a client data structure according to an embodiment of the invention. Accordingly information about unique parties may be stored in a standard party data structure . In the example presented in the standard party data structure includes data fields for storing the following data a party identifier such as a unique system generated identifier used to uniquely identify a particular party in the system a party name which identifies the party notes for example concerning various aspects of the party a status a credit rating for the party annual revenues for the party and a parent standard party identifier which may identify and link the party to another party such as an affiliated business entity.

In addition to the standard party data structure there is shown a client data structure . In some embodiments the client data structure includes many data fields specific to the law firm s representation of the client. For instance in addition to data fields for a client identifier a client name and a standard party identifier the client data structure includes data fields for notes a status for example indicating whether the client is an active client or a closed client no longer being represented by the firm or other relevant information about the client representation such as a client contact person a date opened field for indicating when the client engagement started a date closed field for indicating when the client representation may have ended and a responsible attorney field for indicating the attorney or attorneys at the law firm who are primarily responsible for the client representation. Of course the data fields shown in are presented as examples to convey a general understanding and in various embodiments the data fields may vary considerably from what is specifically depicted in .

Referring again to in some embodiments there are several sources of party data including the party attributes data . For instance in some embodiments one or more data integration modules may be utilized to perform a data import operation to import data from any number of existing data sources including internal e.g. law firm owned and maintained sources as well as external third party sources. For instance in some embodiments the data source may be the firm s existing case management system billing system financial or accounting system time entry system customer relationship management system or e mail system. In some instances the data import operation facilitated by the data integration module may occur manually on a one time or periodic basis. Alternatively the data import operation may occur automatically on a periodically scheduled basis that can be customized.

When party data is imported from another data source with a data integration module the imported data is categorized indexed and stored in the local database for example in data structures or database tables such as those illustrated in . Accordingly each data integration module may have a mapping module not shown to map certain source data fields to the target data fields to which the data is being imported. This not only allows the party data to be efficiently searched but also allows the party data to be utilized in the evaluation of rules by a rule processing engine . For instance as described in greater detail below party data serves as an input to a variety of declarative rules which are used to derive risk scores that are assigned to the parties presented in the conflicts check report. Accordingly a conflicts check report not only identifies parties that may present conflict issues but the report provides a measure and type of risk that might be posed by representing the party. Moreover as described in greater detail below the rules can be customized and grouped into risk profiles so as to enable the law firm to define the particular types of risk that are of primary concern to the law firm.

In some embodiments a data interface to another data source may provide a mechanism for querying internal or external data sources in real time or substantially real time for example during the processing of a particular request to generate a conflicts check report. For instance as illustrated in a data interface is shown coupling the conflicts management system to a third party data source. In some embodiments the third party data source may be a remote subscription based data source such that the law firm operating the conflicts management system is required to subscribe to a data service provided by the third party. In some embodiments the third party data source may be a data service provided by the software developer who provides the conflict management system . Although not specifically shown in a data interface may also couple the conflicts management system to an internal data source for example such as any of the server based resources illustrated in .

As illustrated in the risk evaluation module includes a search and analysis engine as well as a report generating module . The search and analysis engine includes a pre processing module a search engine and a rule processing engine . In general the risk evaluation module receives and processes requests to generate conflicts check reports that display among other things current client representations that may conflict with a potential new client representation. The request is initially processed by the search and analysis engine of the risk evaluation module . In some cases when a request is first received it is processed by a pre processing module which accepts search term s and normalizes the search terms consistent with built in logic and processing options that may be passed to the pre processing module as parameters. The goal of the pre processing step is to produce search terms which are likely to result in more accurate hits than would be possible without pre processing. Once the pre processing is complete a search is performed by the search engine to identify relevant parties such as existing clients that may be adverse to the potential new client parties that are known to be affiliated with the potential new client and or parties that are known to be affiliated with a party designated as a known adverse party. The search engine for example queries one or more database tables residing in the local database and in some instances one or more external data sources. Finally for the potential new client and each party identified to be affiliated with the potential new client one or more risk scores are generated by evaluating a set of business rules with a rule processing engine . The data output of the search and analysis engine is then processed by the report generating module to generate a conflicts check report that is communicated to the user who initiated the request.

A request to generate a conflicts check report may be generated via a variety of user interfaces. Accordingly the exact steps taken to process the request may vary and be dependent upon the specific format of the received request as well as the type of request. For example a web based request may clearly identify and define the entities or parties to be searched and the particular role each entity or party has in the search request. Specifically in a web based request a party may be clearly identified as being a potential new client or a known adverse party. However in a request received via e mail the request may be formatted as a natural language query such that the parties specified in the request are not clearly denoted with a specific role for the search such as a potential new client or adverse party. For example an attorney may specify a natural language query in a request in an e mail such as Hi can I represent IBM SemiConductors in a litigation case in the US NY jurisdiction against AMD As such an e mail request may require natural language processing to generate a structured query.

In some embodiments the natural language processing is facilitated by the pre processing module . For example when a request is received at the risk evaluation module if the request is formatted as a natural language query the pre processing module of the search and analysis engine first performs a number of pre processing tasks. One such task involves processing the natural language query with a natural language processing algorithm to generate a structured query. In some embodiments the pre processing involves logic that performs a set of pre processing operations by default as well as several optional pre processing operations that can be triggered by specifying one or more command parameters with the request or triggered based on an analysis of the natural language query itself.

In some embodiments the default pre processing operations include processing the search terms to remove grammatical suffixes such that the search term universities becomes university or modifying verb forms e.g. by removing ing from gerund verb forms modifying verbs specified in past tense form e.g. ending in ed or modifying words specified as comparatives or superlatives e.g. ending in er or est . In addition entity names may be compared and or replaced with formal synonyms and the spelling normalized. For example if Bank of America is specified in a request as B of A or BoA the short form of the entity may be expanded to its more formal name.

In some embodiments certain pre processing operations are optionally performed. For example a parameter passed to the pre processing module may indicate that search terms are to be stemmed for example such that the term universities would be shortened to universit . Additionally spell checking and phonetic suggestions may be optionally performed based on a parameter being passed to the pre processing module . In some embodiments analysis of a natural language query may trigger additional pre processing operations. In any case for all pre processing operations e.g. default and optional when pre processor functionality has been applied to search terms each resulting term is added as a sub line to the corresponding original search term. Consequently the search is expanded by adding additional terms.

After the pre processing module has generated an expanded search query the search engine processes the search query to identify relevant parties and the relevant party attributes data for deriving a risk score for each relevant party identified. In some embodiments each search query is assigned or otherwise associated with a query type and the query type indicates the particular data sources that are searched by the search engine . For example a search query that is associated with a request to generate a conflicts check for a client representation involving some type of transactional work may be a different type of search request than one involving a client representation for a litigation matter. Accordingly in some embodiments the particular nature of the proposed client representation may dictate that a different type of search is performed. As such some search queries may be executed against different sources of data depending upon the particular type of request that is being made.

In any case once the search engine processes the search query or queries against the one or more data sources e.g. such as the local database the relevant data identified in the search or searches is used as input data for the evaluation of one or more rules by the rule processing engine . The rule processing engine processes the rules to derive scores that can be used independently as risk scores or in some instances combined for the purpose of generating one or more aggregate risk scores for one or more different categories of risk. For instance in some embodiments for each party identified in the search and included in the conflicts search report the rule processing engine will evaluate one or more rules identifying various party attributes. Based on the evaluation of the party attributes for an identified party one or more scores are generated to reflect a level of risk for representing that party. In some embodiments the scores may be normalized and presented via a scale such as unranked 0 25 of maximum low 26 50 of maximum moderate 51 75 of maximum and high 76 100 of maximum . Of course in other embodiments other scales may be used such as a green yellow and red where green represents low risk yellow represents moderate risk and red represents high risk. In some embodiments a raw score e.g. a number may be reported.

Consistent with some embodiments a rule is defined as a declarative statement that maps a risk score to the evaluation of a statement that identifies one or more parties party attribute values a specified absolute or relative value and an operator. For example a rule may take the general form of one of the examples that follow 

In some instances multiples rules will be evaluated for each record or party identified in the search. When multiple rules are evaluated and multiple rules evaluate to TRUE the final risk score may be computed as follows. The highest risk score of those rules that matched is taken as the base score e.g. 76 for High . Next for each additional match i.e. rule evaluating to TRUE sorted from higher to lower an additional score is added as follows. For each moderate match 10 is added to the score. For each low match 5 is added to the score. A hard maximum of 100 for the final score is possible if the base score is high. A hard maximum of top moderate value 75 is possible if base score is medium. A hard maximum of top low value 50 is possible if base score is low. Of course in various alternative embodiments other scoring mechanisms may be utilized. In any case regardless of the specific rules involved and the particular scoring mechanism utilized any party attribute data associated with a record e.g. a standard party record a client party record or a matter specific record can be used in the evaluation of one or more rules for the purpose of establishing a risk score.

In some embodiments a set of default read only rules may be provided. In addition a rule editor not shown may provide a mechanism for editing or customizing certain rules as well as creating new rules to suit the particular needs of the law firm. In some embodiments the exact rule or rules that are evaluated will be dependent upon the type of request or query that is specified. For example is a diagram illustrating a two dimensional risk evaluation matrix and several example rules according to an embodiment of the invention. In some embodiments the conflicts management system facilitates the creation of what is referred to herein as a risk profile. In general a risk profile is an expression of query types and rules that allow a law firm to customize the process of assessing and identifying potentially risky client engagements. As illustrated in the risk matrix represents a mapping of request or query types to a set of rules to be executed for that particular request or query type. For instance the X at the intersection of the first row and second column indicates that a request involving query type will result in rule number being evaluated for any party identified in the processing of query . Similarly for query type rules and are evaluated to assign a risk score to any identified parties.

By mapping rules to query types a law firm can provide different request or query types for different types of client engagements or for assessing different types or levels of risk. For example query type may be written to be suitable in the context of analyzing the risk associated with representing a client in a merger or acquisition. As such rule would be defined to assess a particular type of risk that the law firm would like to consider in the context of representing a potential new client in a merger or acquisition. Other query types and rules may be established for other types of client engagements such as large scale litigations different types of transactional work different types of deal negotiations and or lobbying efforts and so on. Similarly various rules may be defined to more finely assess a particular type of risk. Accordingly a first query type may provide only an initial high level risk assessment whereas a second query type may utilize more stringent rules for more closely assessing the risk involved in a particular representation. By mapping different rules to different request types the law firm can customize their risk profile to reflect the types and levels of risk that are of greatest interest to the law firm.

As indicated in in some embodiments the rules that are evaluated by the rule processing engine are designed to assess two unique categories of risk. One category of risk is referred to herein as ethical risk or technical risk. Ethical or technical risk is a type of risk defined specifically by rules and regulations such as the rules established by state bar associations that typically oversee the licensing of attorneys. For instance in most if not every jurisdiction lawyers are licensed subject to abiding by certain ethical rules and regulations including rules designed to prevent lawyers from engaging clients in the face of conflicts of interest. Therefore the ethical or technical rules are designed to evaluate attorney client relationships that are specifically prohibited by the rules and regulations of the jurisdictions in which the attorneys are practicing. As such many of the ethical rules may be default rules and in some cases may be read only such that they cannot be easily overwritten or modified. Of course in some embodiments additional custom rules may be defined allowing a law firm to assess certain ethical or technical risks that may not be addressed by a default rule. As such a law firm can apply rules that are more or less stringent than those rules that may be provided by default.

Some example ethical rules are presented in . For instance the first ethical rule shown in is a manifestation of a regulation that prohibits the representation of a new client that is already adverse to the firm. The second ethical rule shown in is a manifestation of a rule or regulation that prohibits the representation of a new client in a matter where the new client is adverse to an existing client of the firm. Similarly the other rules shown in deal with situations where a new client may be affiliated for example as a subsidiary or another type of relationship with another company and such relationship brings the representation into question because of a potential conflict.

The second general category of risk that can be addressed by a rule is referred to herein as business risk. Business risk encompasses a wide range of risks including financial risk risk due to political exposure or crime reputation and so forth. Unlike ethical risk business risk is generally defined by the business interests of the attorney or law firm. As such what is considered a negative risk to one firm may be a desirable risk to another firm. It will be readily appreciated that not all law firms will have the same appetite for certain risk or define certain risks in the same manner. Although some default rules may be provided in some embodiments business rules will generally be customized to suit the needs of the law firm. Consistent with embodiments of the invention the customization of rules provides for the customization of the definition of risk. For instance where one law firm desires not to represent clients with certain financial characteristics another law firm may desire to represent clients with those same financial characteristics. Examples of several business rules are presented in .

In some embodiments the final risk score for a party identified in a search is calculated by combining the ethical risk score and business risk score according to relative weights given to each of the two categories for example by a conflicts analyst. For instance if the ethical risk category is given the relative weight of 60 and the business risk category the weight of 40 and a record s ethical risk score is 85 while its business risk score is 60 the final combined risk score for the record will be 0.85 0.60 0.60 0.40 100 0.51 0.24 100 75 . Of course in other embodiments the risk scores may be calculated differently and the weights may be defined by a report template as described in greater detail below. For example in some embodiments each type or category of risk may be reported independently such that the report includes an ethical risk score and a business risk score for each party identified in the conflicts report.

Once the rule processing engine has processed the rules and saved the relevant resulting data including any generated risk scores the report generating module generates a displayable report that contains the relevant report data. In some embodiments report templates can be defined and associated with certain search query or request types such that the format of the report and the specific data included in the report are formatted according to a report template defined for the type of search query or request specified. This allows the display and formatting of the report to be customized to best suit its intended audience. Accordingly if a particular request is of a type for litigation matters the report can be tailored to include specific information used in evaluating risk in the context of litigation matters. Similarly if the potential client is inquiring about representation for a matter involving a trust or a will the initial request for the conflicts report can be specified as a type to match the nature of the potential new client representation e.g. a search type or category for wills and trusts . Moreover the report displayed can be tailored to show the information of particular interest to those likely to be initiating the request type with which the report is associated.

After a report has been generated it may be automatically communicated to the user who initiated the request for the report. In some instances an email may be communicated to the user requesting that the user log in to view a web based report. In any case a conflicts clearance module provides the report user with a variety of options for clearing conflicts identified in the report. For example in some embodiments the user may be able to interact with user interface elements such as buttons drop down lists and so forth that are displayed in connection with those parties identified as representing a risk. For instance with an interactive report generated by the report generating module a user may be able to drill down to get more detailed information about a party and or a risk score for example by clicking on a link or other user interface element.

As illustrated in the conflicts clearance module includes a report data processing module a conversation tracking module and a post clearance processing module . In some embodiments the report data processing module provides a level of interaction with the report by processing data requests that are generated when a user interacts with the report. For instance if a user selects a particular party identified in a report the report data processing module may facilitate the retrieval and presentation of additional detailed information about the selected party. Accordingly the report data processing module provides the user with the ability to query the system for data by simply selecting elements of the report or the user interface in general.

When viewing a conflict report in some instances by simply clicking a button a user may request more information about a particular party from an attorney who is identified as being responsible for an existing representation of a potentially conflicting client. Similarly a report may provide the necessary meta data and user interface elements to enable a user to rapidly request a waiver letter from an attorney representing a client that is potentially causing a conflict in connection with the representation of a new client. In some embodiments a report data processing module processes the report data as the user interacts with the report such that the report data processing module routes clearance and waiver requests to the proper attorneys.

In some embodiments the conversation tracking module provides a mechanism by which various processing events and user communications concerning a particular request can be monitored stored and later presented. For example in some embodiments when a request to generate a conflicts report is first initiated a request identifier may be associated with the request. As the request is processed by various modules or components of the system certain processing operations are logged for example by linking the request identifier of the request to a brief description of the processing operation. Accordingly a user may view a request history report or user interface view that details all of the processing operations that have been performed with respect to a particular request. The request history report or view may identify all of the personnel that have performed certain processing operations as well as the day and time the processing operations occurred. For instance the report may indicate when a conflicts analyst performed a particular search query for a particular request. Similarly the history report may indicate that a conflicts analyst or attorney has eliminated one or more parties identified in the query from further consideration by the rule processing engine.

In some embodiments processing operations and related user communications may be monitored at a granularity that is finer than the request level. For example in some embodiments the concept of a conversation identifier enables communications between users to be captured and associated with requests queries rules reports and or individual elements of a report such as a particular party identified in a report. Accordingly when users of the conflicts management system communicate with one another regarding a particular request or a particular report or a particular party identified in a report a unique conversation identifier may be embedded in the communication allowing the conversation tracking module to link that particular communication with a request report or party. By tracking user communications that are directly linked to certain processing operations e.g. the clearing of a particular party identified in a report the system is able to capture valuable information that was under consideration when certain decisions were made. This provides a level of protection against the loss of valuable information that so frequently occurs when key personnel discontinue their employment with a firm. In addition this information can be quickly retrieved for purposes of facilitating an audit if one is ever necessary.

In some embodiments an analyst or user can automatically generate or populate a distribution list with contact information e.g. e mail addresses of firm personnel that are known based on an analysis of historical data as having a relationship with a party that is identified in a report as representing a potential conflict. For instance by selecting the Company XYZ in a list of persons known to have a relationship with the entity may be generated. Accordingly an analyst can easily and quickly generate and communicate an e mail to those persons associated with a particular client representation thereby requesting that the relevant persons weigh in on whether a potential conflict is an actual conflict and so forth. In some embodiments the e mail communicated to the identified personnel will include an identifier such as a clearance identifier allowing the system to track all communications associated with a particular clearance request and display the communications in a thread such as illustrated in .

In some embodiments by interacting with various elements of the UI different information can be accessed. For example in some embodiments by selecting a particular party displayed in a conflict report UI a resolution status for a clearance request may be displayed such that the resolution status indicates whether the clearance request has been resolved.

In some embodiments the post clearance processing module provides for various post clearance processing tasks. For example if all potential conflicts reported in a particular report are cleared an engagement letter may be automatically generated with information gathered during the processing of the conflicts check request. Similarly if a particular client representation is cleared subject to receiving a signed waiver letter from an existing client a waiver letter may be automatically generated and communicated to the attorney responsible for seeking the signature of the existing client. In some embodiments the identifiers that are used to associate or link communications to certain processing operations may have additional uses in the conflicts management system . For example an identifier may comprise a unique meta data tag that can be embedded in documents managed by the document management system. As such an identifier may facilitate the enforcement of certain document access rules that are in place as a result of a client engagement being undertaken with an ethical wall in place. For example in certain scenarios a client engagement may be subject to an ethical wall such that only certain attorneys in the firm are allowed to actively participate in the engagement and only certain attorneys are allowed to access documents and other information concerning that client engagement. As illustrated in an identifier is shown being communicated from the post clearance processing module of the conflict clearance module to a document management system . The identifier may be utilized by the document management system to tag certain documents to indicate that those documents are associated with a particular client engagement that is subject to an ethical wall. Consequently the document management system can utilize an identifier embedded into a document to prevent unauthorized users e.g. attorneys from accessing documents that are associated with a client engagement that is subject to an ethical wall.

Referring again to in some embodiments a proactive monitoring and self learning module provides a mechanism by which certain user initiated actions are monitored and analyzed for the purpose of fine tuning various aspects of the system . For instance the proactive monitoring and self learning module serves as a form of feedback loop such that as certain user actions are detected the actions provide a basis for modifying the parameters of a search query or a rule that is processed by the rule processing engine . For instance when a conflicts analyst or other user interacts with the search results of a particular query for example by checking a box or selecting certain results to indicate that those results are not relevant in the context of the particular request that is being processed the actions of the user may be detected and utilized to modify the parameters of the search query associated with the request to ensure more accurate results in the future. In some instances the user initiated actions will be automatically detected and the resulting changes to the queries or rules will be automatically performed. However in some instances a workflow or wizard like user interface or some other user interface may enable the user to provide additional information about why a certain action was taken so as to provide additional input that can be utilized to fine tune the queries and rules used in generating certain reports.

In some embodiments the proactive monitoring and self learning module facilitates a workflow or wizard like interface by which the reasons for clearing certain conflicts can be assessed and utilized to fine tune the queries and rules utilized for generating a report of a particular type. For example the proactive monitoring and self learning module may prompt one or more attorneys involved in the clearance of a potential conflict to answer one or more questions about why the attorney is indicating that the potential conflict is not an actual conflict. Based on the answers provided the query and or rules involved in generating that particular report may be modified to more accurately reflect the attorney s or firm s risk profile. For instance if an attorney indicates to the performance monitoring module that a party identified in the report represents a conflict due to the fact that the party s annual gross revenue is lower than some threshold an additional rule may be added to the risk matrix for the request or query type that resulted in the particular report. The new rule may be a financial business rule to assess the financial data of parties when deriving risk scores. As such the performance monitoring module provides a mechanism to modify the queries and rules used in evaluating risk to more accurately represent the firm s risk characteristics as evidenced by their actions.

In some embodiments the proactive monitoring and self learning module may periodically poll certain data sources internal or external to retrieve data that can be used for assessing risk involved in the representation of certain parties. In some instances the proactive monitoring and self learning module may receive notifications from outside sources concerning data indicating an increase or decrease in a risk score for a potential or existing client. For example in some embodiments the proactive monitoring and self learning module may periodically poll a third party data source to retrieve and analyze data that is useful in assessing the risk posed by the representation of a particular party. If the proactive monitoring and self learning module receives data that indicates a sudden change in a risk score associated with a potential new client or an existing client the system may generate a notification message e.g. email that may be directed to a conflicts analyst or attorney associated with the representation. Similarly in some embodiments the proactive monitoring and self learning module may receive data updates for certain parties such that the updates indicate when a change has occurred thereby affecting the level of risk involved in an existing client representation of a particular party. In such a scenario the proactive monitoring and self learning module may generate a notification message to bring the change to the attention of a user of the conflicts management system.

At method operation the structured query is processed to generate search results that include parties and associated party data. The parties identified in the search process typically represent parties that have some relationship to the potential new client or an identified adverse party such that the parties may present a potential conflict of interest if the new party is actually engaged by the attorney or firm. At method operation one or more rules are evaluated by a rule processing engine to derive one or more risk scores for the parties identified in the query. In some embodiments the rules derive risk scores for different categories or types of risk including ethical risk and business risk. In some embodiments the scores may be combined into an aggregate risk score while in other embodiments the scores are reported independently of one another. In some embodiments the scores may be reported as an aggregate risk score but an interactive report may enable drilling down to retrieve more detailed information about the risk score including its component risk scores for each category.

Finally at method operation a report generating module generates a report with the report data. The report data will typically include the parties certain party attribute data and one or more risk scores. The report may be generated using a markup language e.g. such as HTML or XML and may be displayed and processed such that the report provides a variety of interactive features. For instance in some embodiments the report may include the ability to request additional detailed information by simply selecting links e.g. hyperlinks . Additionally the report data may include a variety of meta data that is not explicitly expressed in the report but can be used in the processing or additional requests associated with the report. For example the meta data may include data to indicate which attorney in a law firm is responsible for a particular client engagement. Such meta data can then be used to direct requests for information to the responsible attorney including in some cases requests for waiver letters.

At method operation a user initiated interaction with the report is detected and a request for additional information about a current client representation is directed to a user e.g. an attorney responsible for the existing client engagement . For example a report user may interact with the report by selecting a button or object displayed near or in association with a party identified in the report. The interaction e.g. button selection may cause a message e.g. email to be communicated to another user such as an attorney who is responsible for the existing client representation. In this manner a user can quickly request additional information from other users of the conflicts management system by simply interacting with report elements displayed in the report. In some instances meta data associated with the visible report elements aids in the processing of such report interactions.

At method operation responsive to detecting a second report interaction a request for a client waiver is generated and communicated to a party responsible for a client engagement that is identified in the report as posing a conflicts issue. For example in some embodiments just as a user may request additional information from another user e.g. attorney a user may request that an attorney attempt to obtain a waiver from an existing client. The request may be automatically generated and directed to another attorney by simply interacting with various user interface elements provided in the report.

At method operation the various interactions with the report are logged so as to facilitate a future audit process if one is necessary. For example in some embodiments various interactions associated with the report are logged. The log may include a list of persons to whom the report was communicated including a date and time when the report was viewed by those persons. The log may include log data specifying who cleared each party identified in the report as well as a date and time the party was cleared. Other data may be logged as well.

It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the various method operations illustrated in and described herein may be performed in an order different from what is shown herein without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Moreover in various embodiments certain method operations may be performed by various modules other than those specifically described herein and may require various levels of human interaction. For instance certain operations may be fully automated such that they occur automatically for instance without further user interaction. Alternatively some operations may be semi automated such that user interaction is required to complete the operation.

The various operations of example methods described herein may be performed at least partially by one or more processors that are temporarily configured e.g. by software or permanently configured to perform the relevant operations. Whether temporarily or permanently configured such processors may constitute processor implemented modules that operate to perform one or more operations or functions. Accordingly the modules referred to herein may in some example embodiments comprise processor implemented modules.

Similarly the methods described herein may be at least partially processor implemented. For example at least some of the operations of a method may be performed by one or more processors or processor implemented modules. The performance of certain of the operations may be distributed among the one or more processors not only residing within a single machine but deployed across a number of machines. In some example embodiments the processor or processors may be located in a single location e.g. within a home environment an office environment or at a server farm while in other embodiments the processors may be distributed across a number of locations.

The one or more processors may also operate to support performance of the relevant operations in a cloud computing environment or as a service for example such as in the context of software as a service SaaS . For example at least some of the operations may be performed by a group of computers as examples of machines including processors these operations being accessible via a network e.g. the Internet and via one or more appropriate interfaces e.g. Application Program Interfaces APIs . 

The example computer system includes a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a display unit an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard and a user interface UI navigation device e.g. a mouse . In one embodiment the display input device and cursor control device are a touch screen display. The computer system may additionally include a storage device e.g. drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker a network interface device and one or more sensors such as a global positioning system sensor compass accelerometer or other sensor.

The drive unit includes a machine readable medium on which is stored one or more sets of instructions and data structures e.g. software embodying or utilized by any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media.

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an example embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium may include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any tangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention or that is capable of storing encoding or carrying data structures utilized by or associated with such instructions. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media. Specific examples of machine readable media include non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices e.g. EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and CD ROM and DVD ROM disks.

The software may further be transmitted or received over a communications network using a transmission medium via the network interface device utilizing any one of a number of well known transfer protocols e.g. HTTP . Examples of communication networks include a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN the Internet mobile telephone networks Plain Old Telephone POTS networks and wireless data networks e.g. Wi Fi and WiMax networks . The term transmission medium shall be taken to include any intangible medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying instructions for execution by the machine and includes digital or analog communications signals or other intangible medium to facilitate communication of such software.

Although an embodiment has been described with reference to specific example embodiments it will be evident that various modifications and changes may be made to these embodiments without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the specification and drawings are to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. The accompanying drawings that form a part hereof show by way of illustration and not of limitation specific embodiments in which the subject matter may be practiced. The embodiments illustrated are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the teachings disclosed herein. Other embodiments may be utilized and derived therefrom such that structural and logical substitutions and changes may be made without departing from the scope of this disclosure. This Detailed Description therefore is not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of various embodiments is defined only by the included claims along with the full range of equivalents to which such claims are entitled.

