---

title: Systems, circuits, and methods for reconfiguring solar cells of an adaptive solar power system
abstract: A back sheet comprises an interconnect circuit coupling a plurality of solar cell tiles. A tiled solar cell, comprising a solar cell and encapsulating and glass layers, is inserted into the solar cell tiles. Each solar cell is individually monitored and addressed through the use of the interconnect circuit. As such, each solar cell and the interconnect circuit may be programmed or reconfigured through reconfiguration of the interconnect circuit.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08785829&OS=08785829&RS=08785829
owner: Saful Consulting
number: 08785829
owner_city: Los Gatos
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101215
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 287 165 filed on Dec. 16 2009 and entitled An Adaptive Module for Solar Systems. 

The present invention is related to the field of solar power systems and more specifically towards systems circuits and methods for reconfiguring solar cells of an adaptive solar power system.

Conventional solar modules are generally constructed by stringing together solar cells and then assembling the solar cells into a solar module that is typically encapsulated by ethylene vinyl acetate EVA and sandwiched between a glass sheet and a polyvinyl fluoride TEDLAR sheet. As such a conventional solar module may comprise a packaged interconnected assembly of solar cells. Monitoring of a conventional solar power system is generally performed at the solar module level by measuring each solar module s generated output. As such any reconfiguration of the conventional solar power system is conventionally implemented at the solar module level. The reconfiguration of solar modules may be used to address issues that result when there exists a partial covering of a solar module. The partial covering of the solar module results in the degradation of the operating performance of the solar module. Since the degraded solar module is typically in series with other solar modules to construct a solar module string the degradation of one solar module would adversely impact the performance of the entire solar module string as the solar module string is typically limited by the weakest solar module.

Conventional reconfiguration techniques at the solar module level apply techniques for isolating each solar module from the solar module string by using a DC DC converter and then delivering the energy from the solar module. This results in each solar module operating independently. Typically an external box is coupled to each solar module to control and implement the reconfiguration.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 350 944 discloses a reconfigurable solar panel system comprising a plurality of solar cells arranged in a predefined pattern on a printed circuit board that comprises a predefined pattern of interconnection paths to form at least one solar cell module. The solar panel is made of at least one solar cell module and has the capability to be configured and reconfigured by programming at least one integrated circuit that communicates with each and every solar cell on the solar module. The system of U.S. Pat. No. 6 350 944 is capable of monitoring controlling and protecting the solar panel as well as being reconfigured before during and after the panel has been assembled. Moreover U.S. Pat. No. 6 350 944 discloses a system for cell level monitoring of voltage measurements and cell level re configurability.

Although conventional techniques provide systems and methods to monitor and reconfigure solar modules it would also be advantageous to monitor and reconfigure individual solar cells. The increased granularity of the monitoring and reconfiguring would allow for a more flexible and robust solar power system and provide means to harvest additional power. Additional techniques to implement a solar power system based on solar cells may eliminate the need for the conventional solar module packaging. As such these techniques may additionally provide a more flexible and robust solar power system.

The systems methods and circuits disclosed herein relate to an adaptive solar cell system. Specifically the systems methods and circuits relate to solar cell monitoring and reconfiguring by means of tiles and programmable interconnects on a back sheet.

In the following detailed description numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However it will become obvious to those skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. The description and representation herein are the common means used by those experienced or skilled in the art to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuitry have not been described in detail to avoid unnecessarily obscuring aspects of the present invention.

As seen in the solar power system architecture comprises a plurality of solar cells traces bus lines and pins and and a junction box . Each solar cell comprises at least one trace and each trace is coupled to a bus line. For example solar cell comprises a trace that is coupled to bus line . Each bus line and is coupled to a pin or . Each solar cell trace is subsequently accessible from the pins or to a junction box .

As seen in the solar cell system architecture comprises a solar cell . In some embodiments the solar cell comprises a conventional solar cell. In the same or alternative embodiments the solar cell may comprise a back contact solar cell. For example illustrates a solar cell system architecture comprising a conventional solar cell . As such the monitoring and reconfiguring of a solar cell may not depend on the type of solar cell that is implemented in the solar cell system architecture . In some embodiments the solar cell system architecture comprises a column selector row selector and metal oxide semiconductor field effect transistors MOSFETs and . The row selector may be coupled to the gates of each of the MOSFETs and while the column selector may be coupled to the source or drain of each of the MOSFETs and .

In operation some embodiments of the solar cell system architecture of comprise a row selector and a column selector . The row selector may be configured for enabling a solar cell. For example if the row selector enables the solar cell then the MOSFETs and are also enabled. Next the column selector may be configured to measure the current and or the voltage across the solar cell. As such the MOSFETs and enable a voltage measurement to be taken across the solar cell .

As seen in the matrix comprises a plurality of solar cells . Each solar cell may be coupled to a plurality of MOSFETs and . The matrix further comprises a row selector and a column selector . Each solar cell may be coupled to MOSFETs or switches and that may be enabled for sampling of the solar cell s voltage and or current. In some embodiments a row selector may enable a set of solar cells connected to one row. For example the row selector may enable MOSFETs and of each solar cell of solar cell row . In this instance solar cells of solar cell rows and would not be enabled. Next the column selector may measure voltages and or currents for each of the enabled solar cells from solar cell row . In some embodiments the column selector may implement a clocking scheme for walking through each solar cell of a selected solar cell row measuring the voltage and or current of each solar cell and then transmitting the voltage and or current data and or solar cell address to a processing unit as discussed below.

In some embodiments the above disclosed monitoring functions are performed by a monitoring circuit. For example the monitoring circuit may comprise a sampling circuit for sampling voltage levels at the solar cells . In some embodiments the sampling of the voltage levels may be performed as a function of time with a certain periodicity and interval time between sampling periods. For example the monitoring circuit may control sampling of solar cells so that the solar cells are sampled at least twice per day. In some embodiments the monitoring circuit may comprise a tuned sampling accuracy for a specific monitoring application.

As such the matrix of comprises a plurality of solar cells that may comprise conventional solar cells and or back contact solar cells. Row selectors may enable a row of solar cells and a column selector may step through and monitor the voltage and current of each solar cell enabled in a selected row.

As seen in the solar cell matrix comprises a plurality of solar cells arranged in rows and columns row selector and column selector . The solar cell matrix further comprises a plurality of MOSFETs or switches coupled to each solar cell . MOSFETs and are implemented so as to allow for the monitoring of each individual solar cell as discussed with relation to . As such the row selector may select a row of solar cells and enable the solar cells within the row and the column selector may step through and monitor the voltage and current of each solar cell enabled in a selected row. Solar cell matrix comprises an additional MOSFET or switch for purposes of bypassing a solar cell. In some embodiments the MOSFET is placed across the solar cell . In other embodiments the MOSFET is comprised within the solar cell . As such in the solar cell matrix each solar cell may comprise a MOSFET placed across each individual solar cell. The MOSFET may be used to bypass the solar cell such that the energy output from the solar cell is not collected.

In some embodiments the solar cell matrix of may temporarily enable a bypass switch or MOSFET . For example one solar cell may be partially shaded or covered by debris. Enabling the bypass switch or MOSFET of the partially shaded or covered solar cell may allow the solar cell matrix to operate a higher performance since the overall solar cell matrix is no longer limited by the partially shaded or covered solar cell . In some embodiments once the solar cell is no longer partially shaded or covered so that the solar cell does not limit or degrade the overall performance of the solar cell matrix the bypass switch or MOSFET may be disabled so that the solar cell is no longer bypassed.

In some embodiments a two terminal device such as a diode may be implemented in place of the bypass switch or MOSFET . However in some embodiments control of the diode from an external module or control system may be difficult.

As seen in the programmable interconnect fabric connects a plurality of solar cells. For example the programmable interconnect fabric connects a solar cell with a solar cell . Moreover the programmable interconnect fabric comprises at least one programmable switch that may be used to route energy produced by the solar cells.

As a result the programmable switches may be used to route current through the programmable interconnect fabric and to couple at least one solar cell to another solar cell. As such the programmable interconnect fabric comprising programmable switches may be implemented to control the current flow from a solar cell. In some embodiments the programmable interconnect fabric may be configured so as to allow a series connection from a solar cell to a neighboring solar cell. As such the programmable interconnect fabric may be programmed to achieve a standard solar cell string connection. In some embodiments the programmable interconnect fabric may be configured so as to bypass a solar cell that is performing out of specification. As such the programmable interconnect fabric may perform an exclusion connection of a solar cell within a solar cell matrix. In some embodiments the programmable interconnect fabric may further be programmed to reroute current or energy from a bypassed solar cell to a parallel bus route as discussed in further detail below. In some embodiments multiple bypassed cells may be configured to be connected in series. In the same or alternative embodiments the parallel bus route s may be combined to another bus route in order to integrate the outputs.

In some embodiments the embedded programmable interconnect chip may comprise the routing functionality to allow a series connection through solar cells bypass a solar cell and or bypass a solar cell and re route the energy from the bypassed solar cell to parallel bus . Although the embedded programmable interconnect chip is illustrated as being a part of the programmable interconnect fabric in some embodiments the embedded programmable interconnect chip may be integrated onto each solar cell . As such in some embodiments the embedded programmable interconnect chip may be fabricated onto the solar cell . This may result in the elimination of separate discrete devices such as the embedded programmable interconnect chip from being integrated into the programmable interconnect fabric.

At block the measurements from block and the sensor outputs from block may be processed. In some embodiments the data with regard to each enabled solar cell s voltage and sensor outputs may be logged with a timestamp. The data may then be algorithmically processed to determine whether the cell is performing within certain specifications. At block a determination is made whether the solar cell is within specification. If the solar cell is within specification then at block no reconfiguration is performed and the method ends. If the solar cell is not within specifications then at block the solar cell may be reconfigured. In some embodiments the solar cell is reconfigured by excluding or bypassing the solar cell from other cells in the solar cell matrix. In this embodiment the output from the bypassed solar cell may be routed to a parallel bus so that the energy from the bypassed solar cell is harvested without impacting the other solar cells that are within the specifications.

As illustrated in a back sheet comprises solar cells and . Solar cells and comprise a 100 output. However solar cells and have degraded and may comprise a 50 output. As such if a solar string comprised solar cells and with a 50 output and the solar cells and with a 100 output then the solar cell string would be limited or reduced by the 50 output of the solar cells and . As such in some embodiments the programmable interconnect fabric is configured so that degraded solar cells are in series with other degraded cells and fully functioning solar cells are connected in series with other fully functioning solar cells. For example solar cell and solar cell each with a 50 output are connected in series by programmable interconnect fabric route . As such solar cell and solar cell comprise a solar cell string. However solar cell and solar cell each with a 100 output are comprised in a separate solar cell string. For example solar cell is connected in series with solar cell by programmable interconnect route . As a result illustrates two solar cell strings implemented in a single back sheet each solar cell string comprising solar cells of similar output efficiency. As a result the solar cell strings will not display output energy loss due to solar cell mismatches.

Although the above illustration and description shows the reconfiguration of four solar cells to construct two solar cell strings it should be appreciated that any number of solar cells may be reconfigured to create any number of solar cell strings.

As illustrated in at block the output of solar cells is measured. For example solar cells may be measured to determine those solar cells that are operating within a defined specification and those solar cells that are operating out of a defined specification. For example as solar cells age each solar cell may age differently. Thus a measured current voltage IV curve or characteristic of the solar cells will diverge. At block the solar cells may be categorized into groups of solar cells of a similar output. For example if a back sheet comprises two solar cells operating at a 100 output and three solar cells operating at a 50 output then the two solar cells operating at a 100 output may be categorized into a first group of solar cells and the three solar cells operating at a 50 output may be categorized into a second group of solar cells. At block the solar cells in each group are evaluated with respect to each other solar cell in the group to determine if any of the solar groups are located in a position of the back sheet such that the distance between solar cells creates energy inefficiencies. For example if one of the solar cells of the second group comprising the three solar cells at a 50 output is located at a significant distance from the other two solar cells at a 50 output then the distance between the solar cells may create energy inefficiencies due to the longer required interconnect path between the solar cells. As such in some embodiments solar cells that are determined to be of longer distance to other solar cells may be removed from a grouping of solar cells. As such the solar cell that is too distant from the other solar cells will not be comprised within the solar string comprising the other cells of similar output.

As seen in at block a determination is made whether a solar cell is too distant from other solar cells within a grouping. If the solar cell is not too distant then at block a solar cell string is created. In some embodiments the solar cell string is created by reconfiguring solar cells and the programmable interconnect fabric such that the solar cells are connected in series with each other. However if the solar cell is too distant from the other solar cells within a grouping of solar cells then the distant solar cell will be removed from the grouping. Then at block a solar cell string is created for the remaining solar cells. As such in some embodiments the solar cell string is similarly created by reconfiguring solar cells and the programmable interconnect fabric such that the solar cells are connected in series with each other.

As a result the method of provides for the discrimination of solar cells based on the solar cell output efficiency. In some embodiments the solar cells are discriminated based upon IV performance and spatial positioning of solar cells. In some embodiments every solar cell s output is measured. The solar cells may then be grouped according to output measurements. In some embodiments a deviation from a specification may be specified. For example solar cells that deviate 0.1 to 2 from a specified output level may be grouped into a first solar cell string and solar cells that deviate 2 to 3 from the specified output level may be grouped into a second solar cell string. In some embodiments distance between solar cells may be used to exclude a solar cell from a solar cell string. For example if a group contains solar cells that deviate 1 to 3 from a specified output level are grouped any solar cells that are at a defined distance or a distance calculated to create an energy inefficiency or loss due to interconnect length between solar cells may be excluded from the group. As such the distant solar cell may be comprised within a separate solar cell string. In some embodiments solar cells may be grouped by geographic location within a solar cell matrix and then solar cells of similar output within one geographic location may be grouped into a solar cell string. In some embodiments a model may be used to determine whether to include solar cells into a solar cell string. In some embodiments the solar cell strings may be created so as to meet a voltage specification as discussed in more detail below.

As illustrated in the back sheet comprises a plurality of cell tiles current carrying grid for connecting the cell tiles and programmable electronics . In some embodiments the programmable electronics comprise programmable interconnects or switches as described above. The current carrying grid couples the cell tiles . Moreover tiled solar cells discussed below may be inserted into the cell tiles . For example the cell tiles of the back sheet may accompany mechanical holders that secure inserted tiled solar cells. In some embodiments turning the tiled solar cell in one direction when inserted into the back sheet may secure the tiled solar cell into the cell tile . In the same embodiment turning the inserted and secured tiled solar cell in the opposite direction may release the tiled solar cell from the cell tile . The back sheet may further be coupled to a row selector address selector and control system to perform the monitoring and reconfiguration processes as discussed above.

As such the back sheet with integrated tiled solar cells eliminates the need for a conventional solar module for housing solar cells. The elimination of the conventional solar module for housing solar cells and replacement of the solar module with the back sheet with individually tiled solar cells for insertion into cell tiles provides numerous advantages as discussed in further detail below.

As discussed earlier conventional solar power systems comprise the use of solar modules. As such the level of granularity for the conventional solar power system is at the level of the solar modules. As a result if each solar module comprises a 100 volt output and the solar power system needs to meet a 680 volt output specification for insertion into an inverter then only six solar modules may be used due to voltage specifications. This is because the conventional solar power system operates at a granularity level of solar modules. However reducing the level of granularity to solar cells or tiled solar cells allows for a closer matching of the output specification.

As illustrated in a back sheet comprises a number of cell tiles . The cell tiles are arranged in strings with interconnects coupling cell tiles in a string. The number of cell tiles may be variable. For example if a 1000 volt output is needed and if each cell tile with an inserted tiled solar cell generates a 0.5 volt output then a string with 2000 cell tiles would generate a 1000 output voltage. Although an example of 2000 cell tiles generating a 100 output voltage is provided it should be appreciated that the use of the back sheet with cell tiles can be used to meet any variable voltage standard. Moreover solar cell strings may be created to connect solar cells in series in such a way to match a voltage standard. For example if a 1500 voltage output is specified and each solar cell comprises a 0.5 voltage then a solar cell string comprises solar cells may be created.

Thus the tiled solar cell of is an individually tiled solar cell such that the tiled solar cell may be placed into a back sheet. The tiled solar cell may be individually inserted or removed from the current carrying grid of a back sheet. For example the tiled solar cell may be inserted into a groove or cell tile in the back sheet and turned to make a connection with the current carrying grid of the back sheet. Moreover the same tiled solar cell may be removed simply by turning the tiled solar cell in the opposite direction. In some embodiments the cell pins are configured to make an electrical contact with the current carrying grid comprised within the back sheet when the tiled solar cell is inserted into the back sheet. In the same or alternative embodiments the cell pins make frictional contact with the current carrying grid of the back sheet. The contact resistance between the tiled solar cell and the current carrying grid of the back sheet may be matched to prevent loss of energy in the form of heat dissipation. Thus the tiled solar cells are easily plugged in and pulled out of the back sheet.

The tiled solar cell of may also be an individually tiled solar cell such that the tiled solar cell may be placed into a back sheet as discussed above with relation to the tiled solar cell . As such the tiled solar cell may also be individually inserted or removed from the current carrying grid of a back sheet in the same manner as the tiled solar cell .

As illustrated in the tiled solar cell is also comprised of a stack of various materials and components. An encapsulation layer may be stacked on the top or front of a tiled solar cell . In some embodiments the encapsulation material may comprise ethylene vinyl acetate EVA . In this embodiment the encapsulation layer is placed immediately on top of a solar cell . Below the solar cell is a second encapsulation layer . In some embodiments the second encapsulation layer also comprises an EVA material. Moreover a glass layer is located at the bottom of the tiled solar cell immediately below the second EVA layer . The tiled solar cell may also further comprise a pair of cell pins coupled to the encapsulated solar cell and protruding out of the glass layer . The tiled solar cell may further comprise edge sealants on each edge of the tiled solar cell . As such in some embodiments each solar cell within the tiled solar cell is protected in just as solar cells within a conventional solar module are protected. As such the tiled solar cell only comprises a glass layer on the back side of the tiled solar cell . The back side glass layer also provides needed rigidity to the tiled solar cell and serves to provide mechanical rigidity needed for busbar leads. Moreover the front side or top of the tiled solar cell comprises the encapsulation layer which allows the solar cell to be exposed to sunlight.

The tiled solar cell of may also be an individually tiled solar cell such that the tiled solar cell may be placed into a back sheet as discussed above with relation to the tiled solar cell and tiled solar cell . As such the tiled solar cell may also be individually inserted or removed from the current carrying grid of a back sheet in the same manner as the tiled solar cell and tiled solar cell .

In some embodiments the tiled solar cells disclosed above may comprise an optically tuned glass layer in order to realize concentrated photovoltaic CPV cells. Since the tiled solar cells may comprise a glass layer with optical properties embedded in the glass layer the tiled solar cell may function as a CPV cell handling multiple light sources focused on the tiled solar cell. As such when the tiled solar cells are arranged into a solar cell matrix on a back sheet the solar cell matrix may be composed of optically charged CPV tiled solar cells for an increased performance.

As illustrated in a control system may comprise various components modules and or connections. For example the control system may comprise a processor . In some embodiments the processor is a microprocessor configured to make determinations based on the state of the solar cells by examining measurements and sensor outputs. The control system may further comprise a selecting and measuring module that is configured to receive data from the solar cells installed on the back sheet. In some embodiments the selecting and measuring module comprises a row selector and measuring device selector. The selecting and measuring module is coupled to the processor in order to send data to the processor. The control system may further comprise a memory bank that is coupled to the processor . In some embodiments the memory bank may store data or log information that has been processed by the processor . The control system may further comprise a communications interface coupled to the processor for communicating with a server not shown over a connection . Some embodiments of the control system may further comprise additional peripherals to provide various functions with regard to the monitoring and reconfiguring of solar cells installed on a back sheet.

In operation the control system of generally monitors and reconfigures individual solar cells that have been installed into a back sheet comprising a current carrying grid. In some embodiments a single control system is coupled to or installed within a back sheet and may be capable of monitoring and reconfiguring every individual solar cell that has been installed into the back sheet. As a result a single control system may control all solar cell monitoring and reconfiguring for an entire back sheet comprising a plurality of solar cells. The control system may be coupled to a connector or interconnect of the back sheet such that the control system may have access to electrical traces to each of the solar cells. As such the control system may receive monitoring information and sensor outputs for each individual solar cell on the back sheet.

The selecting and measuring device may select or enable an individual solar cell or an entire row of a solar cell matrix for measuring the solar cell s voltage and or current as discussed above. In some embodiments the selecting and measuring device may also monitor sensor outputs that may measure the irradiance humidity and or temperature of the individual solar cell group of solar cells or the back sheet. The measurement data which may comprise but is not limited to any or all of a measured voltage current irradiance humidity or temperature is then transmitted to the processor . In some embodiments the processor is configured to make determinations of a solar cell based on the state of the solar cell. For example the processor may make a determination based on the measured values of current voltage temperature humidity and or irradiance related to the solar cell. In some embodiments the processor may then make a determination for the solar cell. Examples of such determinations may comprise but are not limited to leaving the solar cell intact bypassing the solar cell bypassing and reconfiguring the solar cell reconfiguring solar cell strings and or create solar cell forecasting information.

As such the processor of the control system of may not change the state of a solar cell and as a result the solar cell may be left in a series string with other solar cells. The processor may bypass at least one solar cell. For example the processor may receive current and voltage measurements related to one solar cell. The processor may determine that the current and voltage measurements are out of specification for the solar cell and thus bypass the solar cell as described above. Moreover the processor may determine to bypass the solar cell but to reconfigure the programmable interconnect fabric so that energy generated from the bypassed solar cell is collected onto a parallel bus as described above in further detail. Additionally the processor may reconfigure solar cells and the programmable interconnect fabric such that solar cells of certain operating performance are connected in series with other solar cells of similar operating performance as discussed in further detail above. The processor may also further record a solar cell s measurements as taken over time. As such the processor may review the historical performance of a solar cell and through the use of processing algorithms may forecast a time bounded behavior of the solar cell. For example the processor may forecast the approximate operating lifespan of the solar cell and when the solar cell will approximately fail or reach a certain threshold.

In some embodiments other electronics may be implemented into a junction box coupled to the back sheet in order to provide direct access and management of the solar cells. For example a Direct Current to Direct Current DC to DC converter may be included to provide an independent operation of a solar cell with respect to a solar cell string. Additional electronics may be included to process the output of the solar cells directly such as converting to Alternating Current AC at the solar cell level and delivering energy to an output. As such a variety of electrical components and equipment may be used to perform the monitoring and reconfiguring of the solar cells installed on the back sheet.

In some embodiments the memory bank may comprise a machine readable medium able to store data temporarily or permanently and may be taken to include but not be limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM buffer memory flash memory and cache memory. While the memory bank may comprise a single medium the memory bank may comprise multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database or associated caches and servers able to store instructions and or data. The term memory bank may be capable of storing instructions or data e.g. software for execution by a machine such as the processor such that the instructions or data when executed by the processor cause the processor or control system to perform any one or more of the methodologies described herein. The memory bank may comprise but not be limited to a data repository in the form of a solid state memory an optical medium a magnetic medium or any suitable combination thereof.

As illustrated in the embedded software architecture comprises a measure module reconfigure module communication module Application Programming Interface API and database . In some embodiments the measure module measures the solar cell sensors and voltage and or current readings from solar cells and records the measured data and readings through the use of the API and a consistent data model. The data is then accessed by the reconfigure module by using the API to build a set of learning algorithms that may determine how the reconfiguration may occur. The reconfiguration information from the reconfigure module is then passed to a cross bar switch not shown in the control system which may perform the various interconnect connections or disconnections between solar cells to build the solar cell strings within the solar cell matrix of the back sheet dynamically. The database may comprise detailed data about the measurements and readings with regard to individual solar cells. For example the database may comprise historical measurements with regard to a solar cell s current voltage irradiance humidity and or temperature conditions. In some embodiments the database may comprise an initial current voltage IV curve captured at the manufacturing process. This initial IV curve may thus serve as an initial baseline characteristic. Through the operating life of the solar cells the solar cell s current voltage irradiance humidity and or temperature conditions may be recorded and or timestamped within the database at each point in time that the measurements are taken. As such the database may comprise the historical conditions of each solar cell. Thus the embedded software architecture may analyze the stored historical conditions and determine or predict a failure occurrence of a solar cell before the failure actually occurs. For example the embedded software architecture may observe deviations from initial baseline characteristics and thus forecast an eventual failure occurrence for the solar cell. As a result the failure forecasting may make it possible to perform proactive maintenance of the solar cells as opposed to an unplanned maintenance of the solar cells and to manage just in time inventory.

As illustrated in at block measurements of a solar cell are received. In some embodiments the measurements of a solar cell may comprise but are not limited to current voltage humidity irradiance and or temperature of the solar cell. At block the measurements may be processed and the current solar cell characteristics may be compared to historical trends of the solar cell s characteristics. For example IV characteristics of each solar cell may be compared to the solar cell s historical IV characteristics. As such if the current IV characteristics show a deviation from historical trends then the solar cell may be partially covered by foreign matter that is reducing the solar cell s performance and thus its IV characteristics. At block a determination is made whether it can be inferred that foreign matter is at least partially covering a solar cell. In some embodiments the intelligent cleaning system may utilize a weather sensor in conjunction with analyzing the historical trends of a solar cell s characteristics in order to determine whether the system may infer that foreign matter exists on the solar cell. For example a weather sensor may indicate particularly heavy cloud cover in the vicinity of the solar cell. As such the solar cell performance and characteristics may suffer due to the cloud cover preventing sunlight or other light sources from reaching the solar cell. In such a case the intelligent cleaning system may infer that the degradation in the solar cell s performance or characteristics is due to the weather and not due to foreign matter being present on the solar cell. As such at block the intelligent cleaning system is not initialized if it is determined foreign matter or soiled conditions are not present with respect to the solar cell. However at block the intelligent cleaning system is initialized if it is determined or inferred that foreign matter exists on the solar cell.

In some embodiments measurements from an irradiance sensor and historical trends in solar cell outputs may be used to determine or infer whether foreign matter exists on the solar cell. For example the system may monitor the output level of the solar cells and notice that the output level has decreased from an expected output level. In some embodiments the expected output level may be computed from the measurements of the irradiance sensor and or expected solar cell output. The system may analyze the irradiance sensor output and historical trends in the solar cell data. As such the intelligent cleaning may wash the solar cell with a fluid in order to remove the foreign matter. In some embodiments the system may group solar cells and perform the above monitoring and computing processes as described above for every solar cell in a group.

In some embodiments the method of may measure an I V current voltage output for each solar cell in the solar cell array. The insolation at the site of the solar cell array may be measured through an external pyranometer. Based on the insolation or irradiance the expected I V for each solar cell is computed. In some embodiments the expected I V may be computed based on the initial I V of the solar cell at the time of manufacturing. If the measured I V of a solar cell under insolation deviates from an expected I V of the solar cell then there may be a shadow on the solar cell or foreign matter may exist on the solar cell. In some embodiments the system may track the I V of the solar cell over a period of time. For example if the I V of a solar cell changes over a few hours then the loss in performance or I V of the solar cell is likely due to a shadow present on the solar cell. In some embodiments the I V loss may be measured over two consecutive days in order to check whether the performance loss occurs at the same time and magnitude with the same step loss. In some embodiments the detection of a shadow may issue an alert such that corrective action may be made to prevent loss of performance due to the shadow. Otherwise if the loss in performance of the solar cell is constant over a period of time then the loss in performance may be due to foreign matter being present on the solar cell. In this case a cleaning system may be triggered.

As discussed earlier a back sheet may comprise a current carrying grid programmable interconnect and cell tiles into which tiled solar cells may be inserted. As such the back sheet may be placed into the surface segment and the rest of the surface . In some embodiments the back sheet may be configured or implemented such that the back sheet fits into the contours dimensions and or shape of the surface . As such the back sheet may be placed onto a curved surface or a surface with irregular dimensions. Tiled solar cells may then be inserted into the back sheet in order to create a solar power system comprising tiled solar cells that cover much of an available surface.

An implementation of the back sheet with tiled solar cells provides numerous advantages over a conventional system comprised of solar modules that house solar cells. For example each solar cell in the tiled solar cell receives the same protection as it would from being housed within a conventional solar module. As such individual tiled solar cells may be mass produced with few additional steps in a cell manufacturing plant. The elimination of the solar module results in savings from the lack of module manufacturing costs. For example the back sheet with tiled solar cells does not require a tabbing and stringing process as is done in the manufacturing of solar modules. As such costs in acquiring tabbing and stringing equipment may not be necessary for the manufacturing of the back sheet and tiled solar cells. Moreover large format glass costs are eliminated as each individual tiled solar cell may comprise a smaller format glass layer when compared to the large format glass layer of a solar module. Transportation costs for the tiled solar cells and back sheet would also be less when compared to conventional solar modules since the tiled solar cells may be packaged into containers and may comprise a lower weight lesser yield costs due to reduced breakages lower wiring costs due to the compactness of solar cells and less or no DC cables for interconnections. The back sheet may also comprise a variety of lengths or sizes and thus implemented with various numbers of tiled solar cells as compared to a conventional solar module that is of a fixed length or size. As such the back sheet with tiled solar cells may result in lower land costs as the back sheet with tiled solar cells may comprise a higher packing density of solar cells relative to the conventional solar module.

Since the solar cells are comprised within individually tiled solar cells that are implemented on a back sheet the back sheet and or tiled solar cells may be placed onto land with varying dimensions or on curved contours. As such the back sheet with tiled solar cells provides more flexibility in the mounting of the solar power system on different types of surfaces or land. This may result in an increased ground coverage ratio.

The system comprising a back sheet and tiled solar cells would also comprise easier installation and maintenance as well as more cost effective installation and maintenance. For example the tiled solar cells may be easily dismounted from mechanical holders attached to the back sheet. As such the tiled solar cells may be easily replaced. Thus if a single tiled solar cell is not functioning at a certain specification then the single tiled solar cell may be removed instead of an entire conventional solar module being removed. As a result maintenance and installation costs for tiled solar cells may be significantly lower than that of replacing a solar cell housed within a conventional solar module.

The systems circuits and methods disclosed herein also provide easier thermal management. As the tiled solar cells are individually exposed and not sealed inside a conventional solar module the heat that may develop through sun exposure may be thermally managed away through the use of fins heat sinks and other heat dissipation techniques.

As discussed above the systems circuits and methods disclosed herein also provide the monitoring and reconfiguring at the solar cell level. This finer level of granularity when compared to granularity at the conventional solar module level provides a more robust and efficient system

The current disclosed embodiments may be targeted by various applications. For example such applications may comprise but are not limited to solar cell level monitoring solar cell level reconfiguring data logging of solar cell characteristics in situ testing of solar cells during the manufacturing process and intelligent cleaning systems for solar power systems.

A solar cell level monitoring application may comprise each solar cell in the back sheet being measured and tracked under varying conditions of temperature humidity and irradiance. Each solar cell may also be monitored with respect to its voltage and or current. With the more detailed granularity level of monitoring at the solar cell level a solar cell monitoring application may understand and determine solar cell aging and degradation develop models to forecast a failure mode for the solar cell or approximately when the solar cell will fail. These forecasts may assist with proactive maintenance and just in time inventory management. Moreover the solar cell monitoring application may be able to infer soiling and shading conditions. For example the solar cell monitoring application may develop a historical record of a solar cell s operating performance and characteristics. If the solar cell is functioning out of specification then the solar cell monitoring application may be used to determine whether the solar cell has degraded to below specifications or if temporary soiling and shading conditions are responsible for the degradation in the performance of the solar cell.

A solar cell level reconfiguring application may comprise solar cell strings that are dynamically built and re built to react to changing ambient conditions of solar cells in real time. This reconfiguration of solar cell strings allows for optimizing solar cell string performance to maximum power point tracker MPPT match voltage specifications and to re build the solar cell strings to avoid the negative impact of shaded soiled or degraded solar cells.

A data logging application may comprise measured data of solar cells being saved in a database for extended periods of time. This recorded information may then be used for various types of analyses of the solar cells such as root cause failure analysis

An in situ testing of solar cells application may occur during the manufacturing and assembling process. In some embodiments after the tiled solar cells have been placed on the back sheet for interconnection an in situ testing step may be performed to check each tiled solar cell in the tiled solar cell string in order to ensure that the tiled solar cell is operating within specifications. If there is any tiled solar cell that exhibits abnormal behavior within the tiled solar cell string then that tiled solar cell may be easily replaced by a functioning tiled solar cell.

An intelligent cleaning system application may comprise a more efficient cleaning system for solar power systems. The ability of the software algorithms discussed above may infer when a solar cell has been shaded or soiled by foreign matter. As such it would be possible to integrate a cleaning system that turns on only when needed to clean the solar cells and to effectively remove the foreign matter from the solar cells. This integration will result in the conservation of cleaning fluid such as water as the cleaning fluid is only used when foreign matter is shading a portion of a solar cell and inhibiting overall solar cell performance.

Although the present invention has been described in terms of specific exemplary embodiments it will be appreciated that various modifications and alterations might be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. The previous description of the disclosed embodiments is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to make or use the present invention. Various modifications to these embodiments will be readily apparent to those skilled in the art and the generic principles defined herein may be applied to other embodiments without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention. Thus the present invention is not intended to be limited to the embodiments shown herein but is to be accorded the widest scope consistent with the principles and novel features disclosed herein.

