---

title: Search term management in an electronic discovery system
abstract: Embodiments of the invention relate to an improved electronic discovery. More specifically, embodiments relate to managing the process for creating search term sets to be applied to electronic data sets associated with a case in an electronic discovery system. A search term management application is provided that allows for multiple users to work collaboratively to define the final search term set that is subsequently applied to the corpus of electronic data for the case. In addition, the application provides for tracking the overall search term creation process. In addition, embodiments provide for a search term hit count engine that is configured to determine search term hit counts for a portion of a corpus of data, such that the determined search term hit count may be predictive of the volume of data needed to review.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08805832&OS=08805832&RS=08805832
owner: Bank of America Corporation
number: 08805832
owner_city: Charlotte
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100324
---
The present application for patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 164 276 entitled Electronic Discovery System filed Mar. 27 2009 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

In general embodiments of the invention relate to methods systems apparatus and computer program products for electronic discovery and more particularly creation and management of search terms associated with a case in an electronic discovery system.

Electronic discovery commonly referred to as e discovery refers to any process in which electronic data is sought located secured and searched with the intent of using it as evidence in a legal proceeding an audit a securities investigation a forensics investigation or the like. E discovery can be carried out offline on a particular computer or it can be accomplished in a network environment.

The nature of digital data makes it extremely well suited for investigation. In particular digital data can be electronically searched with ease whereas paper documents must be scrutinized manually. Furthermore digital data is difficult or impossible to completely destroy particularly if the data is stored in a network environment. This is because the data appears on multiple hard drives and because digital files even if deleted generally can be undeleted. In fact the only reliable means of destroying digital data is to physically destroy any and all hard drives where it is stored.

In the process of electronic discovery data of all types can serve as evidence. This can include text image calendar event data databases spreadsheets audio files multimedia files web sites and computer programs. Electronic mail i.e. e mail can be an especially valuable source of evidence in civil or criminal litigation because people are often less careful in these exchanges than in hard copy correspondence such as written memos or postal letters.

E discovery is an evolving field that goes far beyond mere technology. It gives rise to multiple issues many of which have yet to be resolved. For example identifying data required to satisfy a given discovery request locating the appropriate set of data that has been identified and retrieving the data once it has been identified and located all pose problems in and of themselves. This is especially evident if the data that is being identified located and retrieved comes from an evolving or disparate enterprise such as a corporation that has experienced mergers acquisitions downsizing and the like. Mergers and acquisitions mean that the technology infrastructure across the enterprise may vary at least in the interim. However e discovery must be able locate and retrieve data from these disparate technology infrastructure in a timely fashion sometimes within days of when the merger acquisition occurs.

In addition to identifying locating and retrieving digital data the most critical part of any electronic discovery is the preservation of data which involves maintaining an original source copy and storing it for preservation purposes or furthering processing. This too becomes a daunting task for the enterprise system that encompasses a myriad of different technology infrastructures and the like. Therefore a need exists to improve the identification location retrieval and preservation processes especially in instances in which the enterprise system includes disparate technology infrastructures and the like.

As previously noted e discovery as opposed as conventional discovery of printed materials provides for the ability to filter or search the data so as to reduce the volume of data to only that which is relevant to the request. Such searching is typically accomplished by determining a specific date range for the request providing key words relevant to the case and the like. Improvements in the area of searching are greatly in need to further add efficiency to the overall e discovery process.

Once data has been retrieved preserved and in some instances searched the electronic data may be reviewed by the requesting entry such as a law firm securities commission or the like. While large requests are generally suited for online review the manner in which the data is presented for review adds efficiency to the review process and ultimately drives the cost of the review process. Therefore improvements in the manner in which data is presented for review are also desirable as a means of increasing efficiency and reducing costs.

Lastly once the digital data has been reviewed data identified as relevant may need to be produced in a tangible format for further analysis or legal evidentiary purposes. The produced documents must be properly identified and include necessary redactions and confidentiality markings.

Up until now e discovery management has been conducted on a case by case basis meaning all tasking and workflow related to the e discovery is based at the case level. Such management does not allow for finer granularity in the management of a case or for links to exist between different cases for the purpose of leveraging the e discovery related to one case to another new or pre existing case. Therefore a need exists to improve the manner in which cases are managed and in particular how tasking and workflow are managed depending on case requirements and the like.

One specific problem associated with electronic discovery is the establishment and management of search terms otherwise referred to as search criteria for a particular case or matter. Once identified the search terms are applied to the corpus of electronic data for the purpose of rendering a data set that is highly relevant to the case or matter. Currently no identifiable process exists for establishing and managing search terms. Typically search terms are created by a collaborative effort between two or more individuals associated with the case and or the electronic discovery system. For example search terms may be created in joint effort between case analysts data processors data reviewers or the like. The ad hoc process may involve numerous electronic mail email correspondence between parties in order to define precisely what terms should be included in the search of the electronic data. In other instances physical or telephonic meeting discussions may not capture all of the search terms discussed.

All too often this is a time consuming effort that presents may problems. In many instances individuals that would otherwise be key contributors to the process are unintentional left out of the search term decision process. In addition search terms discussed throughout the process are prone to being lost or otherwise not included in the final search term set.

Moreover search terms are prone to evolve over time as more information is known about the case and the individuals involved with the case referred to herein as custodians. In this regard search terms are modified with terms being added or deleted accordingly prior to finalizing the search terms. Modification of the initial search terms is necessary to insure that the corpus of data is pared down to the most relevant level possible thus insuring that the review of data and the costs related to review of data is minimized. Additionally informal establishment of search terms provides no means of tracking the modifications to the search terms. Tracking of the modifications would be beneficial to insure that proper search term focus is realized and to avoid redundancy of search term consideration.

In addition the current process has no mechanism for determining the impact of suggested or considered search terms on the corpus of data related to the case. In this regard no means exist to determine which and how many documents correspondence or the like in the data set may be responsive to a specific search term. Moreover no means exist to further determine which and how many documents correspondence or the like in the data set associated with a data type e.g. email e file or the like and or a custodian may be responsive to the search term. Such indications early on the process provide the ability to predict the volume of documents associated with the search term and thus predict the manpower needed to review the data and the costs associated therewith.

Therefore a need exists to provide for a management of the creation of search terms for cases in an electronic discovery system. The desired methods apparatus and systems should provide a collaborative interface accessible to all individuals relevant to the search term creation process such that any designated individual can provide search term creation inputs. In addition the desired solution should provide for tracking of the search term creation process such that modifications e.g. additions deletions changes to the search terms are tracked prior to finalizing the search term set. Moreover the desired solution should provide a means for predicting the quantifiable affect of specific search terms on the corpus of data to determine how relevant the search terms may be and the affect of the search term on the volume of data needed to be reviewed. As such desired methods apparatus and systems should formalize the process and management of search terms thereby allowing for a more systematic and effective approach to search term creation and a more accurate approach to assessing the volume of data requiring review in the case.

The following presents a simplified summary of one or more embodiments in order to provide a basic understanding of such embodiments. This summary is not an extensive overview of all contemplated embodiments and is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of all embodiments nor delineate the scope of any or all embodiments. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts of one or more embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

Embodiments of the present invention relate to systems apparatus methods and computer program products for electronic discovery and in particular provide a collaborative interface accessible to all individuals relevant to the search term creation process e.g. case analysts data processors data reviewers or the like such that any designated individual can provide search term creation inputs. In addition embodiments of the invention provide for tracking of the search term creation process such that modifications e.g. additions deletions changes to the search terms are tracked prior to finalizing the search term set. The ability to track modifications to the search term creation process allows for search term creators to better manage the process and insures that a relevant search term is not omitted and the necessary level of focus i.e. narrowing or broadening is applied to specific search terms.

In addition present embodiments of the invention provide for applying the search term to an electronic data set to gauge the volume of occurrences of the search term referred to as a search term hit count in the data set prior to finalizing the data set. Search term hit counts provide for the ability to predict the volume of data required to be reviewed and thus provides an indication of the manpower needed to review the time required to review and the costs associated with the review. In accordance with present embodiments the search term hit counts may be performed on a per data type basis. For example search term hit counts can be determined on a per email basis a per e file e.g. non email data such a word processing document spreadsheet or the like basis or the like. In addition the search term hit counts can be determined on a per search term basis and or a per custodian basis and or a per data type basis. Thus allowing for the user to predict the volume of data on a per data type basis and or a per custodian basis and or a per search term basis.

A method for managing search terms in an electronic discovery system defines specific embodiments of the invention. The method includes receiving at a computing device a plurality of first inputs. Each of the first inputs define search terms e.g. a key word a key phrase a date range or the like associated with a case in the electronic discovery system and storing in a case profile the search terms as a search term set.

Further specific embodiments of the method include receiving at a computing device one or more second inputs. Each of the second inputs modify e.g. add delete or change the search term set. In such embodiments the method may include storing in the case profile the modifications to the search term set including modification tracking data such as but not limited to details of the modification originator of the modification date of the modification or the like.

In further specific embodiments the method includes receiving at a computing device a second input. The second input finalizes the search term set. In such embodiments the method may also include applying at a computing device the finalized search term set to electronic data associated with the case. Moreover in other specific embodiments applying the finalized search term set may include applying the finalized search term set to electronic data associated with one or more custodians associated with the case and or applying the finalized search term set to electronic data associated with a specific data type. In such embodiments the method may further including storing in computing device memory application tracking data such as but not limited to an electronic data set identifier an overall quantity of search term hits within the electronic data the quantity of search term hits per search term in the electronic data a date for applying the search term set to the electronic data and the like.

In still further embodiments in which the search term set is finalized the method includes receiving at a computing device one or more third inputs. Each of the third inputs modify the finalized search term set. In such embodiments the method may include storing in the case profile the modified finalized search term set as a next generation search term set and in further embodiments storing tracking data related to modification of the finalized search term set.

An apparatus for managing search term creation in an electronic discovery system provides for additional specific embodiments. The apparatus includes a computing platform including at least one processor and a memory. The apparatus additionally includes a search term management application stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to receive a plurality of first inputs that define search terms associated with an electronic discovery case and store the search terms as a search term set in a case profile associated with the electronic discovery case.

In specific embodiments of the invention the search term management application is configured to receive one or more second inputs that modify the search term set prior to finalizing the search term set. In further related embodiments the search term management application is configured to store in the case profile modifications to the search term set including modification tracking data such as but not limited to details of the modification originator of the modification date of the modification or the like.

In other specific embodiments of the apparatus the search term management application is further configured to receive a second input that finalizes the search term set. In such embodiments the apparatus may further include a search term administrator application configured to apply the finalized search term set to electronic data associated with the case. In further such embodiments the search term administrator application is further configured to apply the finalized search term set to electronic data associated with one or more custodians associated with the case and or to electronic data associated with a specific data type. In such embodiments the search term administrator may be further configured to store in the case profile application tracking data such as but not limited to an electronic data identifier an overall search term hit count the search term hit count per search term and or per custodian and or per data type or a date for applying the search term set to the electronic data.

In still further specific embodiments of the apparatus in which the search term management application is further configured to receive a second input that finalizes the search term set the search term management application may be further configured to receive one or more third inputs. Each of the third inputs modify the finalized search term set. In such embodiments of the apparatus the search term management application may be further configured to store in the case profile the modified finalized search term set as a next generation search term set. Moreover in still further related embodiments the search term management application is further configured to store in the case profile tracking data related to modification of the finalized search term set.

A computer program product including a computer readable medium provides for other specific embodiments of the invention. The computer readable medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to receive a plurality of first inputs. Each of the first inputs define a search term associated with a case in the electronic discovery system. The computer readable medium additionally includes a second set of codes for causing the computer to store in a case profile the search terms as a search term set.

A method for determining search term hit counts in an electronic discovery system provides for further specific embodiments of the invention. The method includes receiving at a computing device inputs that provide for a search term set that includes a plurality of search terms wherein the search term set is associated with a case in the electronic discovery system. The method further includes determining via a computing device processor a plurality of search term hit counts by applying the search term set to an electronic data set. The search term hit counts include a per data type hit count for one or more data types in the electronic data set. Additionally the method includes storing in computing device memory the plurality of search term hit counts.

In specific embodiments of the method determining further includes determining via the computing device processor the per data type hit count. The data types include electronic mail email and electronic file e file .

In other specific embodiments of the method determining further includes determining via the computing device processor the plurality of search term hit counts associated with the electronic data set including per data type hit counts for each of the plurality of search terms.

In still further specific embodiments of the method includes determining via the computing device processor the plurality of search term hit counts associated with the electronic data set including a per custodian search term hit count for each custodian associated with the case and or and for each of the plurality of search terms and or for each of the one or more data types.

In other embodiments of the method determining further includes determining via the computing device processor a file size associated with each of the plurality of search term hit counts and storing further comprises storing in the computing device memory the file size associated with each of the plurality of search term hit counts.

In other specific embodiments of the method storing further includes storing at the computing device memory one or more of the plurality of search term hit counts in an associated custodian profile within the electronic discovery system and or in an associated search term file within the electronic discovery system.

Additionally in further related embodiments the method includes applying at a computing device one or more of the plurality of search term hit counts to one or more additional cases in which the electronic data set and at least one of a search term or a custodian are common between the case and the additional case.

An apparatus for determining search term hit counts in an electronic discovery system provides further a computing platform including at least one processor and a memory. The apparatus further includes a search term hit count engine stored in the memory and executable by the processor. The search term hit count engine is configured to receive a search term set that includes a plurality of search terms determine a plurality of search term hit counts by applying the search term set to an electronic data set associated with a case and store the plurality of search term hit counts in memory. The search term hit counts include a per data type hit count for one or more data types in the electronic data set. In specific embodiments the data types include electronic mail email and electronic file e file .

In other specific embodiments of the apparatus the search term hit count engine is further configured to determine the plurality of search term hit counts associated with the electronic data set including per data type hit counts for each of the plurality of search terms.

In other embodiments of the apparatus the search term hit count engine is further configured to determine the plurality of search term hit counts associated with the electronic data set including a per custodian search term hit count for each custodian associated with the case and according to other embodiments for each of the plurality of search terms and or for each of the one or more data types.

In still further embodiments of the apparatus the search term hit count engine is further configured to determine a file size associated with each of the plurality of search term hit counts and store the file size associated with each of the plurality of search term hit counts in the memory.

In other embodiments of the apparatus the search term hit count engine is further configured to store one or more of the plurality of search term hit counts in an associated custodian profile within the electronic discovery system and or in an associated search term file within the electronic discovery system.

Further embodiments of the apparatus include a search term management application stored in the memory executable by the processor and configured to apply one or more of the plurality of search term hit counts to one or more additional cases in which the electronic data set and at least one of a search term or a custodian are common between the case and the additional case.

A computer program product including a computer readable medium defines yet other embodiments of the invention. The computer readable medium includes a first set of codes for causing a computer to receive inputs that provide for a search term set that includes a plurality of search terms wherein the search term set is associated with a case in the electronic discovery system. Additionally the computer readable medium includes a second set of codes for causing a computer to determine a plurality of search term hit counts by applying the search term set to an electronic data set. The search term hit counts include a per data type hit count for one or more data types in the electronic data set. In addition the computer readable medium includes a third set of codes for causing a computer to store the plurality of search term hit counts.

Thus further details are provided below for systems apparatus methods and computer program products for a collaborative search term creation management interface accessible to all individuals relevant to the search term creation process such that any designated individual can provide search term creation inputs or modification inputs. In addition embodiments herein described provide for tracking of the search term creation process such that modifications e.g. additions deletions changes to the search terms are tracked prior to finalizing the search term set. Additionally present embodiments of the invention provide for applying the search terms to an electronic data set to gauge the volume of occurrences of the search terms referred to as a search term hit count in the data set prior to finalizing the data set. Search term hit counts provide for the ability to predict the volume of data required to be reviewed and thus provides an indication of the manpower needed to review the time required to review and the costs associated with the review.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the one or more embodiments comprise the features hereinafter fully described and particularly pointed out in the claims. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative features of the one or more embodiments. These features are indicative however of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of various embodiments may be employed and this description is intended to include all such embodiments and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present invention now may be described more fully hereinafter with reference to the accompanying drawings in which some but not all embodiments of the invention are shown. Indeed the invention may be embodied in many different forms and should not be construed as limited to the embodiments set forth herein rather these embodiments are provided so that this disclosure may satisfy applicable legal requirements. Like numbers refer to like elements throughout.

As may be appreciated by one of skill in the art the present invention may be embodied as a method system computer program product or a combination of the foregoing. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may generally be referred to herein as a system. Furthermore embodiments of the present invention may take the form of a computer program product on a computer readable medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any suitable computer readable medium may be utilized. The computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples of the computer readable medium include but are not limited to the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a tangible storage medium such as a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory a compact disc read only memory CD ROM or other optical or magnetic storage device or transmission media such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet. Note that the computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured via for instance optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may be written in an object oriented scripted or unscripted programming language such as Java Perl Smalltalk C or the like. However the computer program code for carrying out operations of embodiments of the present invention may also be written in conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages.

Embodiments of the present invention are described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products. It may be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and or combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create mechanisms for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable memory that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable memory produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block s .

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide steps for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block s . Alternatively computer program implemented steps or acts may be combined with operator or human implemented steps or acts in order to carry out an embodiment of the invention.

Thus apparatus systems methods and computer program products are herein disclosed that provide for management of the creation of search term sets for a case or matter within an electronic discovery system. A search term user interface is provided that allows for various entities e.g. case analysts data processors data reviewers or the like to collaborate in identifying confirming and finalizing the search terms that comprise the search term set. The initial search term set evolves over time as the entities involved in the process become more familiar with the case the individuals associated with the case i.e. the custodians and the volume of electronic data associated therewith. The present invention additionally provides for modifications to the search term set such additions deletion or other changes to be tracked and recorded thereby allowing search term creators a historical profile of the search term set that assists in further modification decisions.

In additional embodiments of the invention a search term hit count engine is provided that provides for each entry in the search term set to be applied across an electronic data set to determine the impact of the search term on the data set in terms of the volume of occurrence of the search terms i.e. hit count in the data set. In specific embodiments the hit counts can be determined on a per data type basis such as e file electronic mail email or the like and or a per search term basis and or a per custodian basis and or the like. Such level of granularity in hit count determination allows the user the ability to assess the impact of the search term on a data type search term and or custodian basis. The resulting search term hit counts provide a predictive indication of the volume of occurrences of the search term in the overall corpus of data thereby allowing case analysts data processors data reviewers and the like the ability to predict the volume of data requiring processing and reviewing. Such predictive data is instrumental in planning for the resources required to conduct the processing and or review.

The search term management application includes search term user interface user interface that is configured to receive first inputs that define search terms . As noted the search terms that are entered form the search term set that once final is applied to the overall corpus of harvested electronic data associated with the case or matter. The search term user interface may be accessible over a computing network such as a corporate intranet or the like to provide individuals associated with the search term set creation process the ability to access the user interface to input search terms . In one embodiment of the invention the user interface is in the form of a spreadsheet such as a Windows Excel spreadsheet application provided by the Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. or an Apple Numbers provided by the Apple Corporation of Cupertino Calif.

The search term user interface provides a collaborative tool for e discovery associates such as case analysts data processors data reviewers or the like to input potential search terms. The collaborative nature of the search term user interface insures that search terms are not overlooked proper search terms are eventually defined in the final search term set and individuals paramount to the search term creation process are not inadvertently omitted. In specific embodiments data reviewers will initially input the potential search terms in the search term user interface and case analysts data processors and the data reviewers will subsequently revise modify the search terms in the search term set prior to finalizing the search term set . Modification may include adding a search term deleting a search term altering a search term or the like. Once the search term set is deemed it can be applied to the overall corpus of electronic data associated with the case as a means for paring down the electronic data to only the data that is relevant to the case or matter i.e. only the data that includes the search terms . In some embodiments multiple sets of search terms some with only a tangential relationship to the case can be added to the case management system thus providing for more that one search term set and enabling users to apply multiple search term sets to the same corpus of data.

Once the search term set is deemed final the search term set is stored in a case profile within a case profile database such as database server of and subsequently applied to the corpus of data associated with the case. Storing the search terms within the case profile is advantageous as it creates a record of the searching that has or is to be undertaken with respect to the data and aids in organization of the data.

As discussed further detail in relation to infra. the search term management application also captures and stores tracking information related the search term inputs and the modifications to the search term set. Tracking information may include but is not limited to the type of modification details of the modification date of the modification who performed the modification and the like. Tracking information allows the collaborative user to assess the history of the search term creation process thereby limiting redundancy and insuring that the resulting final search term set is as meaningful as possible in relation to the case at hand.

Referring to another high level schematic diagram is presented of an apparatus configured for determining search term hit counts for search terms associated with a case in an e discovery system in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The apparatus which may comprise more than one computing device includes a computing platform having at least one processor and a memory . In specific embodiments of the invention the apparatus may take the form of an electronic discovery manager server as shown in and described in relation to . Further the apparatus shown in may be configured to include all or a portion of the functionality shown and described in .

The memory of apparatus stores search term hit count engine that is configured to determine a plurality of search term hit counts by applying the search term set or a plurality of search terms in the set to at least one portion of the corpus of electronic data associated with a case. Although not depicted in according to specific embodiments of the invention and as shown in the search term hit count engine may be included within the search term management application . As previously noted a search term hit count provides for the quantity of occurrences of a search term or multiple search terms within an electronic data set.

In practice the search term hit count engine is used to predict or identify the number of occurrences of a search term or multiple search terms in a subset of the corpus of data associated with a case or the entire corpus of data associated with a case. In this regard by predicting or identifying the number of occurrences of a search term s in the overall corpus of data the e discovery associate can assess the relevancy of the search term to the case. As such the search term hit count engine is used during the search term set creation process to assess the effectiveness of the search terms in relation to the data associated with the case. For example if a search term is applied to a data set and a large quantity of files are responsive the e discovery associate may decide to refine or further limit the search term in order to further pare down the electronic data to be processed and reviewed. Conversely if a search term is applied to a data set and a minimal quantity of files are responsive the e discovery associate may decide to include the search term in the final set and or modify the search term to broaden its scope in order to include more relevant electronic data in the set of data to be processed and or reviewed. In addition to assessing the effectiveness of the search terms in relation to the data associated with a case the search term hit count provides an indication of the volume of data that includes the search term and thus e discovery associates can proactively secure the resources necessary to process and or review the data.

In particular embodiments of the invention the search term hit count engine is configured to determine search term hit counts on a per data type basis. The data types may include but are not limited to e file data e.g. word processing text documents spreadsheets and the like email data or any other type of data . In such embodiments the search terms in the set or a portion of the search terms in the set are applied to a corresponding data type within the corpus of data associated with the case or a portion of the corpus of data associated with the case. By providing for search term hit counts on a per data type basis e discovery associates can better assess the volume of data needed to be reviewed per data type and plan accordingly in terms of resources for processing and or review of the data types. In addition certain data types such as email provide for further hit count granularity in the form of applying a specified date range to the hit count determination process. In addition to providing search term hit counts on a per data type basis other embodiments of the invention provide for determining search term hit counts on a per search term basis and or a per custodian basis and or any other identifiable data set criteria.

Referring to shown is a more detailed block diagram of apparatus such as for example electronic discovery manager server embodied within an electronic discovery enterprise system shown in according to embodiments of the present invention. The apparatus is configured to provide search term management and search term hot counts within an e discovery system. In addition to providing greater detail highlights various alternate embodiments of the invention. The apparatus may include one or more of any type of computerized device. The present apparatus and methods can accordingly be performed on any form of computing device.

The apparatus includes computing platform that can receive and execute routines and applications. Computing platform includes memory which may comprise volatile and non volatile memory such as read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Further memory may include one or more flash memory cells or may be any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media optical media tape or soft or hard disk.

Further computing platform also includes processor which may be an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. Processor or other processor such as ASIC may execute an application programming interface API that interfaces with any resident programs search term management application search term user interface and or search term hit count engine or the like stored in the memory of the apparatus .

Processor includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of apparatus and the operability of the apparatus on a network. For example processing subsystems allow for initiating and maintaining communications and exchanging data with other networked devices. For the disclosed aspects processing subsystems of processor may include any subsystem used in conjunction with search term management application search term user interface and or search term hit count engine or subcomponents or sub modules thereof.

Computer platform additionally includes communications module embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enables communications among the various components of the apparatus as well as between the other devices in the electronic discovery system. Thus communication module may include the requisite hardware firmware software and or combinations thereof for establishing a network communication connection.

As previously noted the memory of computing platform stores search term management application which is executable by processor and configured to mange the identification process of search terms for the search term set associated with a case within the e discovery system. The search term management application includes search term user interface that is configured to receive first inputs that define search terms . As noted the search terms that are entered form the search term set that once final is applied to the overall corpus of harvested electronic data associated with the case or matter.

In addition in specific embodiments the search term user interface is configured to receive second inputs that define a search term modification . As previously noted the modification may include adding a search term to the set deleting a search term from the set altering a search term in the set or the like. In addition to providing for modification inputs the user interface captures search term modification tracking data related to the search term inputs and the modifications to the search term set. Tracking data may include but is not limited to the type of modification details of the modification date of the modification who performed the modification and the like. Tracking data allows the collaborative user to assess the history of the search term creation process thereby limiting redundancy and insuring that the resulting final search term is as meaningful as possible in relation to the case at hand.

According to other specific embodiments the search term user interface is further configured to receive a third input that defines the final search term set . The final search term set is in most instances defined after numerous modifications to the search term set have been undertaken. Once the final search term set is defined the search term set is stored in a case profile within a case profile database shown in such as database server shown in and subsequently applied to the corpus of data associated with the case.

The search term management application additionally includes search term hit count engine that is configured to determine a plurality of search term hit counts by applying the search term set or a plurality of search terms in the set to a portion or the entire corpus of electronic data associated with a case. As previously noted a search term hit count provides for the quantity of occurrences of a search term or multiple search terms within an electronic data set.

In practice the search term hit count engine is used to predict or identify the number of occurrences of a search term or multiple search terms in a subset of the corpus of data associated with a case or the entire corpus of data associated with an case. In this regard by predicting or identifying the number of occurrences of a search term s in the overall corpus of data the e discovery associate can assess the relevancy of the search term to the case. As such the search term hit count engine is used during the search term set creation process to assess the effectiveness of the search terms in relation to the data associated with the case. In addition to assessing the effectiveness of the search terms in relation to the data associated with a case the search term hit count provides an indication of the volume of data that includes the search term and thus e discovery associates can proactively secure the resources necessary to process and or review the data.

In specific embodiments of the invention the corpus of data or a subset thereof associated with the case requires full conversion to a text format prior to determination of hit counts. The full text index may exist prior to hit count determination or the full text index may require creation prior to and as part of the hit count determination process. Thus search term management application may include full text index creation routine that is configured to provide for a full text index of the corpus of data or a subset of the corpus of data prior to determining hit counts.

In particular embodiments of the invention the search term hit count engine is configured to determine search term hit counts on a per data type basis. The data types may include but are not limited to e file data e.g. word processing text documents spreadsheets and the like email data or any other type of data shown in . In such embodiments the search terms in the set or a portion of the search terms in the set are applied to a corresponding data type within the corpus of data associated with the case or a portion of the corpus of data associated with the case. By providing for search term hit counts on a per data type basis e discovery associates can better assess the volume of data needed to be reviewed per data type and plan accordingly in terms of resources for processing and or review of the data types. In addition certain data types such as email provide for further hit count granularity in the form of applying a specified date range to the hit count determination process.

In addition to providing search term hit counts on a per data type basis other embodiments of the invention provide for determining search term hit counts on a per search term basis and or a per custodian basis and or any other identifiable data set criteria . For example the search terms in the search term set can be applied to a single data item to multiple data items associated with a custodian and or to multiple data items across multiple custodians within a case file. As such the search term hit count engine is generally applied to data set prior to the search term user interface receiving the third input that defines final search term set .

In addition according to specific embodiments the search term hit count engine may include the file size associated with each resulting search term hit count .

The memory of apparatus may additionally include a search term administrator application that is configured to apply the final search term set to the corpus of electronic data associated with the case to render the set of data requiring processing and review. In addition the search term administrator application may be configured to provide search term application tracking data . The search term tracking application data may include the date of the search term application and the results of the application.

In addition search term hit counts are stored in the case profile and may be applicable to subsequent cases in which the electronic data set the search terms and or one or more custodians are the same in the subsequent case as in the case for which the search set was determined.

Referring to a flow diagram is depicted of a method for managing the creation of search term sets for a case in an electronic discovery system in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. At Event a plurality of first inputs that define search terms are received by a search term user interface operable at a computing device. The search terms may include search words search phrases a date or date range or the like. The first inputs may be inputted by any designated e discovery associate entity such as but not limited to a data reviewer a data processor a case analyst or the like. At Event the inputted search terms as stored as a search term set in the case profile.

At optional Event prior to finalizing the search term set one or more second inputs that modify the search terms in the search term set are received by the search term user interface. Modifications may include adding a search term to the set deleting a search term from the set or altering the search term. At optional Event the modifications to the search term set are stored in the case profile along with modification tracking data. The modification tracking data may include but is not limited to the type of modification the details of the modification the date of the modification the user that made the modification and the like.

In addition the method may include not shown in receiving third inputs that define a final search term set such that the final search term set is subsequently applied to the entire corpus of data associated with the case to pare down the date set to the relevant data requiring further processing and review. The method may further include receiving fourth inputs that modify the finalized data set resulting in a next generation data set and storing the next generation data set in the case profile along with modification tracking data.

Referring to a flow diagram is depicted of a method for determining search term hit counts in an electronic discovery system. At Event inputs are received that provide for a plurality of search terms that define a search term set associated with a case in the e discovery system.

At Event the a plurality of search term hit counts are determined by applying the search term set to an electronic data set. The electronic data set may be a subset of or the entire corpus of electronic data associated with a case. Applying the search term set is defined herein as searching the electronic data set for the number of occurrences of each search term in the search term set. The determination of hit counts may occur on a per data type e.g. e file email or the like basis and or a per search term basis and or a per custodian basis. In addition to determining search term hit accounts the method may include determining the size of the file associated with the hit count.

At Event the plurality of search term hit counts are stored in computing device memory such as stored in a custodian profile a search term file or the like.

As a means of providing an overview of a composite enterprise wide electronic discovery system which may be implemented in conjunction with the computer monitoring of network status described above are herein provide and described in detail. It should be noted that the system shown and described in relation to are by way of example only and as such presently described embodiments of the invention may be embodied within other electronic discovery systems or only implement select portions of the electronic discovery system herein described.

As shown in the block diagram of the electronic discovery management server provides user interface management for via user interface . In some embodiments the electronic discovery management server is a web server that can be accessed via a web browser. In one particular embodiment the electronic discovery management server is an intranet website server that may be accessed utilizing a web browser on a machine within the enterprise. Through the electronic discovery management server the user interface may be presented to a user for the purposes of managing the electronic discovery process and all processes described herein that are inherent thereto. For illustrative purposes it may be assumed herein that the primary user interacting with the user interface is an employee or contractor of the company who serves an electronic discovery management role and hereafter is referred to as the e discovery manager. As discussed in greater detail below the e discovery manager may utilize the user interface to manage cases custodians collections and collected data. It should be appreciated however that any individual could use the user interface to perform the manual functions herein attributed to the e discovery manager and indeed that an automated process could perform those functions as well.

Referring again to the electronic discovery management server is in communication with the database server and the collections server via the communication network . The database server as shown in the block diagram of is configured to provide database services for the electronic discovery management server including housing the Unified Directory custodian database which includes data relating to individual custodians the case database which includes data relating to particular cases and ongoing collections database which includes data relating to collections being undertaken by the collections server . Each of the foregoing databases within the database server is discussed in detail below. It should be understood that multiple database servers could be employed instead of a single database server and reference to a single database server is for illustrative and convenience purposes only. For example the Unified Directory could be stored in one database server and the ongoing collections data could be stored in another database server.

Regardless of the number of database servers employed it is an object of embodiments of the present invention that data relating to custodians and cases be stored in the database server independently. While custodian data in the Unified Directory and case data in the case database may be linked or correlated within the database server for example when custodians are assigned to particular cases custodians may be managed separately from cases. Therefore when a case is initialized and a custodian is assigned to the case information for that custodian such as data storage locations for that custodian is accessed by the electronic discovery management server in the Unified Directory in the database server and linked to the particular case rather than manually input by the e discovery manager into the case.

Furthermore in addition to separating but allowing linkage of custodian management and case management processes and as discussed further below data management processes relating to the collection of data from custodian storage locations during electronic discovery are also separated from case management and custodian management processes. In this regard the data collected from a particular custodian is stored separately from both the custodian information and any relevant case information as discussed below it is stored in long term network storage network but is linked to a custodian which is in turn linked to one or more cases. This is advantageous because in the event a particular custodian is assigned to multiple cases data collected from the custodian may be shared with the other case s to which the custodian is assigned. Therefore the various processes and components of the electronic discovery system may be categorized within one of case management custodian management or data management. And even though cases custodians and collected data may all be managed separately there are necessarily links between the various datastores to allow management of the overall electronic discovery process.

With regard to custodian management according to some embodiments of the present invention the Unified Directory custodian database houses information relating to all potential custodians within the enterprise and the locations where those custodians store data. The information stored in the Unified Directory may include for a particular custodian for example the custodian s name position human resources identifier a unique number for each employee of the enterprise employment location domain email addresses network user identification personal computer s name paths of network storage devices used by the custodian including Shared Drives and HomeSpaces work history related persons such as managers team members or subordinates and any other information that may be relevant to the discovery process. Since the human resources identifier is always unique for each custodian in some embodiments the Unified Directory may be organized around the human resources identifier. All of the information relating to how the Unified Directory is generated is a multi step process that utilizes multiple applications and methods of identifying relevant information.

For example the electronic discovery management server or the database server may interface with the computer databases of the human resources computer systems of the enterprise to copy the information from the human resources databases into the Unified Directory . In some embodiments the electronic discovery management server may also reach out to a network directory such as Windows Active Directory to identify network resources related to particular custodians and integrate this information into the custodian entries including the copied human resources information. Information for the Unified Directory may also be obtained from the managers of the information technology network i.e. those individuals responsible for setting up email accounts for custodians and managing the various file servers of the enterprise. Furthermore in addition to retrieving information in the manners described above in some embodiments information in the Unified Directory is generated through applications initialized and or deployed by the electronic discovery management server . In particular in some embodiments as shown in a profile scanning application and a mapping application are provided.

The profile scanning application may be deployed by the electronic discovery management server and is configured to crawl the communication network scan each of the enterprise personal computers and transmit to the database server identifying information about each computer such as computer name and IP address and a list of all profiles including demographics information or network user identification associated with each computer. According to different embodiments the profile scanning application may be run on the electronic discovery management server the collection server or another server in the communication network . In some embodiments the profile scanning application is further configured to identify and transmit to the database server the most recent date and time at which a particular profile was logged on to the machine. When information relating to a particular computer is received by the database server the database server uses the profile information which may include several user identifications to link the particular computer to the custodians in the Unified Directory associated with those user identifications. The database server may also record in each custodian s entry in the Unified Directory the last time the computer was accessed by the custodian according to the profile information transmitted by the profile scanning application . Thus the profile scanning application ultimately generates a list of personal computers used by each custodian and this list may be presented to the e discovery manager when a collection of a custodian s local machine s is initialized as discussed in detail below.

In accordance with some embodiments of the invention the mapping application is configured to crawl the communication network and examine the enterprise file servers residing on the communication network to locate and identify the path of any personal network storage area on each server. As used herein a personal network storage area is a network storage area associated with a single user who reads data from or writes data to it. Personal network storage areas may be in the form of network storage devices or folders or other resources within a network storage device and may be referred to hereafter for clarity purposes as HomeSpaces. According to different embodiments the mapping application may be run on the electronic discovery management server the collection server or another server in the communication network . In some embodiments the mapping application is a Windows service that is scheduled to execute through use of Windows Scheduled Task. As the mapping application crawls the communication network it is configured to examine each file server and transmit to the database server the path of any network storage area within the plurality of servers that it positively identifies as a HomeSpace. In some embodiments the mapping application is configured to explore the enterprise file servers by obtaining and reviewing the directories on each server and evaluating the paths of each network storage area therein including folders and other storage devices and resources.

With regard to identifying a particular network storage area as a HomeSpace according to some embodiments the mapping application is configured to utilize conventional naming techniques for paths in the communication network to identify those paths of network storage areas within the enterprise file servers that include an indicator based on the conventional naming techniques that the particular storage areas associated with those paths are accessed and used by only one user and are therefore HomeSpaces. In accordance with some embodiments of the invention each user of the communication network is assigned to at least one user identification and those user identifications are the indicators that the mapping application attempts to locate within paths when identifying HomeSpaces. In such embodiments it is the convention that the paths of HomeSpaces on the communication network include the user s user identification. On the other hand paths of shared network storage areas do not include user identifications. Therefore the mapping application may explore the directories of each server within the plurality of servers evaluate each path in turn and make a determination as to whether or not the path includes a user identification.

If it is determined that the path includes the designated indicator for example a user identification the mapping application is configured to positively identify the particular network storage area identified by that path as a HomeSpace and transmit to the database server the particular user identification and the path of the HomeSpace. When that information is received by the database server the database server uses the user identification to link the particular HomeSpace to the custodian in the Unified Directory associated with that user identification. In some embodiments the mapping application is also configured to recognize and transmit and the database server is configured to house an indication of the last time the HomeSpace was accessed by the particular user for example the last time any data was read from and or written to the HomeSpace. Additionally in some embodiments the mapping application is configured to recognize when multiple paths map to the same network storage area. The collection server compares paths for the same user to determine if duplicative entries exist. This advantageously enables avoidance of multiple collections of the same data. Thus the profile scanning application ultimately generates a list of HomeSpaces used by each custodian and this list may be presented to the e discovery manager when a collection of a custodian s HomeSpaces is initialized as discussed in detail below.

In addition to storing a list of personal computers and HomeSpaces used by a particular custodian which lists were generated by the profile scanning application and the mapping application respectively in accordance with some embodiments of the present invention the database server is also configured to store a list of any shared network storage areas used by the custodian. As used herein a shared network storage area is a network storage area associated with multiple users who read data from and or write data to it. Shared network storage areas may also be in the form of network storage devices or folders or other resources within network storage devices and may be referred to hereafter for clarity purposes as Shared Drives. The user interface is configured to receive a path of a Shared Drive input by the e discovery manager and store the path in the Unified Directory in relation to one or more custodians human resources identifier s . More particularly in some embodiments once a particular user of the communication network is chosen for the collection process the e discovery manager may undertake to identify the particular shared network resources that that individual is using and eventually the paths associated with those shared network resources. This may be accomplished through conversations with the particular individual by utilizing data returned from the local collection application executed on collection server shown in the block diagram of deployed to the particular user s machine as discussed in detail below and or by utilizing a file browsing application executed on electronic discovery manager server as shown in .

According to some embodiments of the present invention the file browsing application is configured to be utilized by the e discovery manager through the user interface . The file browsing application gives the e discovery manager elevated authority within the communication network to access in a limited manner the enterprise file servers within the communication network . While the file browsing application may not allow access to the actual files stored on certain file servers it allows the e discovery manager to browse through the directories of the file servers locate files that have been accessed by the custodian and determine the size of the files. In accordance with some embodiments the e discovery manager may initially have a general idea of a particular file server within the enterprise file servers that the custodian has used in the past. For example the custodian may communicate to the e discovery manager a particular folder name and or drive name on which he she has stored files. Additionally in some embodiments the e discovery manager may have already undertaken a local collection process on the custodian s machine wherein the local collection application returned a list of the network resources that the user of that machine has used. In that event the e discovery manager may be aware of the particular drive referenced by the user. The e discovery manager may then employ the file browsing application to browse out to the particular drive mentioned scan the folders for any folder having a name resembling that name given by the user identify any particular files created by and or accessed by the user determine the size of such files and retrieve the path of any folder or Shared Drive including data belonging to the user.

The retrieved paths of the Shared Drives may then be added either manually or automatically to the Unified Directory in the database server . Thus the Unified Directory may store in connection with one custodian and in particular in relation to the custodian s human resources identifier a list of the personal computers HomeSpaces and Shared Drives associated with that custodian. Each of these locations is a potential source of data stored by the custodian and once an investigation or collection of a custodian is initiated the location information stored in the Unified Directory may be accessed to determine the particular storage locations that need to be addressed during the investigation collection. This is advantageous as it allows a completely automated investigation collection process rather than relying on the e discovery manager to manually input the targeted machines and file servers at the time of collection.

It should be noted that the Unified Directory may be regularly or continuously updated as new information is gathered using the applications described herein. More particularly the electronic discovery management server may be configured to automatically retrieve data from the human resources databases and Active Directory and any other relevant sources such as information technology directories or lists as well as deploy the profile scanning application and the mapping application at regularly scheduled intervals. Alternatively rather than periodically retrieving data from the various data sources such as the human resources databases the system may be configured such that the database server is continuously interfacing with the data sources such that the Unified Directory is updated in real time as the data within the data sources update. In either instance each of the feeds of information into the Unified Directory is regularly updated to ensure that the data in the Unified Directory is current.

In some embodiments the database server is configured such that all historical data relating to a custodian is stored in relation to that custodian s human resources identifier in the Unified Directory . Thus when the feeds of information into the Unified Directory are updated in the event data relating to the custodian has updated the database server is configured to store in the Unified Directory the new data and any relevant metadata including for example the time and date of the update as well as maintain a record of the old data so that it is still a part of the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory . For example in the event the profile scanning application identifies a new personal computer associated with a custodian and one of the personal computers associated with the custodian previously is no longer identified the database server is configured to store in the Unified Directory the information for each computer as well as indications as to when the new computer was first identified and when the old computer was no longer identified. In this way the custodian profile within the Unified Database may include a history of the personal computers used by the custodian. Such information may be relevant at the time of investigation or collection of the custodian.

One feed of information into the Unified Directory which is particularly relevant to electronic discovery is employment status. According to some embodiments when the feed of information from the human resources databases to the Unified Directory includes an update as to employment status of a particular custodian the electronic discovery management server is configured to recognize the update and possibly perform particular functions in response. More specifically in the event it is recorded in the Unified Directory that the employment status of a particular custodian updates from active to terminated the electronic discovery management server is configured to determine whether the custodian is assigned to any case or matter and if so to transmit to the designated manager or contact for the case or matter an electronic communication notifying the manager of the terminated status and inquiring as to whether the manager would like the terminated custodian s data collected. In the event the manager responds in the affirmative the electronic discovery management server is configured to automatically initiate the various collection processes of the present invention. Therefore the custodian s data may be advantageously collected prior to any destruction or unavailability that could be caused by the termination. Alternatively in other embodiments the electronic discovery management server may not communicate with the manager and may automatically initiate collection upon recognizing an update in employment status.

With regard to case management processes according to some embodiments a case may be initialized by the e discovery manager utilizing the user interface . In this regard the e discovery manager may enter into the user interface certain information about a particular matter or case such as a case name and or number a short description of the matter case a legal identifier the particular requester i.e. who asked for the case to be opened managers or contacts for the matter i.e. individuals involved in the substance of the matter rather than the process like the e discovery manager custodians etc. The electronic discovery management server is configured to store this information in the case database in the database server . The case database is configured to house this information such that all information relating to a particular matter or case is related within the case database and a user can use the user interface to view a profile of the matter or case including all the information.

Once the matter and or case has been initialized the e discovery manager may add custodians to the matter or case. In some embodiments the electronic discovery management server is configured to add numerous custodians to a single matter or case at one time. In this regard the e discovery manager may use the user interface to enter in identifying information about the custodians. The identifying information for each custodian does not have to be of the same type. For example a name may be entered for one custodian an email address for another a network user identification for another and a human resources identifier for another. The user interface is configured to receive the identifying information in different input areas depending upon the type of identifying information being received. The electronic discovery management server is configured to use the input information to search the Unified Directory in the database server to determine which custodians are associated with the input information. In the case of a human resources identifier being entered only one custodian in the Unified Directory may be a match. On the other hand in the case of a name being entered multiple custodians may be a match.

The electronic discovery management server after searching the Unified Directory with the input identifying information is configured to present through the user interface a list of all custodians matching the input identifying information. In the event only one match was returned for a particular set of input identifying information the electronic discovery management server is configured to automatically select the custodian to be added to the case or matter. On the other hand in the event more than one match was located for a particular set of input identifying information then the multiple matches may be presented together to the e discovery manager through the user interface and marked so that the e discovery manager must review the multiple custodian profiles associated with the matches to determine the correct custodian that should be added to the case or matter. In doing so the e discovery manager may consider the other information in the profiles such as corporate title work location associated custodians etc. Such information can inform the e discovery manager as to whether the located custodian is the one intended. The e discovery manager may then select the correct custodian for addition to the case or matter and confirm that all custodians selected may be added to the case or matter. According to some embodiments adding a custodian to a case or matter involves linking correlating the custodian profile in the Unified Directory to the case or matter in the Case database .

According to some embodiments upon adding custodians to a matter the electronic discovery management server is configured to initiate the transmission of preservation notices and surveys to the custodians. In this regard preservation notices and surveys relevant to the particular case or matter are stored in or linked to the case profile in the case database . Transmission of the preservation notices and surveys to custodians added to the case may be automated for example there may be preset instructions within the case profile that cause the electronic discovery management server to transmit a particular preservation notice and survey at a particular date or time or upon a particular initiating event such as a custodian being added to the case or the e discovery manager may manually cause the preservation notices and surveys to be transmitted. In some embodiments the electronic discovery management server is configured to transmit the preservation notices and surveys via a standard email function. The surveys may be tied to the preservation notices such that they are transmitted to custodians together and one survey may be tied to more than one preservation notice. When a custodian responds to a survey the survey response is received by the electronic discovery management server and stored in relation to the relevant custodian in the case profile in the case database . Furthermore the electronic discovery management server may be configured to store all or a portion of the data received in the survey response in the Unified Directory in the custodian s profile.

According to some embodiments each transmission of a preservation notice and survey to a custodian and each corresponding response is tracked in the relevant case profile in the case database . The electronic discovery management server may also be configured to transmit reminder notices if responses to the surveys are not received within a predefined period of time. The electronic discovery management server may also be configured to schedule reminder notices to be sent to custodians to periodically refresh the custodians memory of their duty to preserve files documents pertaining to the matter. In some embodiments once a preservation notice has been sent to a custodian the electronic discovery management server may undertake to prevent any reimaging or refreshing of the custodian s personal computer s by transmitting an alert of the preservation notice to the enterprise s information technology management group. In addition the survey responses received from custodians serve to inform the collection process. For example one survey may inquire as to what network storage devices the custodian uses when storing data. The answer that the custodian gives to the survey may inform the addition of Shared Drives to the custodian profile in the Unified Database that may be used later in collection.

According to some embodiments of the present invention the e discovery manager may utilize the user interface to add attachments notes tasks and search terms to a case or matter. In some embodiments the contacts managers for a case may also access the case profile in the case database using a web browser and may add attachments notes tasks and search terms to be stored therein. Thus the e discovery manager may not be the only entry with access to the case and case management applications of the electronic discovery management server . The subject matter of the attachments notes and tasks could be anything relevant to the case or matter. In some embodiments the tasks are tasks that particular custodians must complete and the electronic discovery management server is configured to transmit a notice to the custodians that that the task needs to be completed perhaps using standard email functions. With regard to attachments the e discovery manager or the contact manager of the case may upload relevant files to be attached to the case profile.

With regard to the search terms the e discovery manager or the case contacts or managers may add certain terms to the case profile to be applied when searching the collected data to locate data responsive or relevant to the underlying issues in the case. Storing the search terms within the case profile is advantageous as it creates a record of the searching that is to be undertaken with respect to the data and aids in organization of the data as discussed further below.

According to some embodiments of the present invention when a decision is made that it is time to collect from certain custodians in a matter the e discovery manager may use the user interface to release the custodians from the matter to the underlying case. This release triggers the commencement of collection of the custodians data. In some embodiments the electronic discovery management server is configured to allow all custodians assigned to the matter to be released to the case at the same time. In addition in instances where the e discovery manager has previously created groups of custodians within the case the electronic discovery management server is configured to allow a group of custodians to be released from a matter to a case at the same time.

Once a custodian has been identified for collection whether manually by the e discovery manager or by being released from a matter to a case the electronic discovery system is configured to automatically collect the custodian s data using the location information stored in the Unified Directory . Therefore the electronic discovery management server accesses the custodian profile of the custodian to be collected in the Unified Directory and determines from the information stored therein the different locations of data storage for the particular custodian that must be collected. There are many different locations that the system can address including personal computers email accounts and network storage areas including HomeSpaces and Shared Drives.

If a custodian profile for a custodian released for collection includes at least one personal computer s associated with the custodian then the electronic discovery management server may undertake to collect the files on these machines. Therefore the electronic discovery management server may retrieve the relevant machine identifying information such as domain name IP address etc. and may initialize deployment of a local collection application running on collections server as shown in .

The local collection application is configured to be deployed from the collections server or another server within the network to any of the enterprise personal computers . Therefore for a particular custodian the local collection application is configured to utilize the machine identifying information supplied by the electronic discovery management server to be deployed to the identified custodian computer. According to one embodiment the local collection application is configured to be automatically installed on the target custodian s personal computer. The local collection application is further configured to generate a snapshot of the data residing on the local storage of the personal computer for example by using a commercially available application such as the Volume Shadow Copy Service store the snapshot in a storage area on the personal computer and transmit copies of the files included in the snapshot to the collections server . By transmitting the data from the snapshot of the data stored on the hard drive of the personal computer the local collection application advantageously allows the custodian to continue to use her machine without substantial interference from the local collection application and even interact with the data stored on the hard drive as the snapshot of the data is being transmitted to the collections server .

In addition to the functions described above the local collection application may also be configured to transmit to the database server a catalog of the files included in the snapshot to be stored in the ongoing collections database. This catalog may be referenced by the collections server in order to determine whether collection is complete and to resume interrupted collections at the point of interruption. Additionally in accordance with some embodiments the local collection application is configured to compile and transmit to the electronic discovery management server a list of network resources the user is using including for example network applications and file servers that the user has used or accessed. This list of resources may be stored in the database server in the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory . With regard to transmission of the files themselves according to one embodiment of the invention the local collection application is configured to compress hash and upload the files included in the snapshot to the collections server .

In some embodiments the electronic discovery management server may utilize a computer monitoring application to determine when to attempt a collection from a custodian s machine. The computer monitoring application is configured to monitor the network and determine which of the enterprise personal computers are online. Therefore in the event there is a custodian whose local machine needs to be collected the computer monitoring application is configured to determine when that machine joins the network i.e. when it appears to the computer monitoring application and inform the electronic discovery management server that it should initialize the local collection application immediately.

If a custodian profile for a custodian released for collection includes any paths for HomeSpaces or Shared Drives then the electronic discovery management server may undertake to collect the files from these file servers by initializing the file server collection application running on collection server as shown in . The file server collection application is configured to access the file server located at the given path whether the file server is a HomeSpace or a Shared Drive copy the data residing on the file server and compress hash and transmit the copied data to the collections server . The file server collection application may be programmed with preset instructions that allow it to only copy files meeting certain criteria for example files that have certain file extensions. Alternatively the programmed instructions may prevent the file server collection application from copying files having certain file extensions or other attributes. Either of the foregoing is advantageous if the e discovery manager is not interested in copying executable files or source code for example. In some embodiments the file server collection application is also configured to generate a size estimate of the files residing on the targeted file server. In one embodiment the file server collection application may automatically begin the collection process copying and transmitting data if the size estimate falls below a predetermined threshold. In addition in some embodiments the file server collection application is configured to determine whether a particular folder that it is collecting from a file server includes more than a token amount of nearline files and in the event that the folder does include such nearline files choose to not collect such files so as to avoid overloading the server. Therefore according to different embodiments the file server collection application copies all or a portion of the files residing on a file server located at the path given in the released custodian s profile and transmits them to the collections server .

If a custodian profile for a custodian released for collection includes an email address for an email account on the enterprise email server then the electronic discovery management server may undertake to collect the files from the enterprise email server by initializing the active email collection application running on collections server as shown in . In some embodiments the active email collection application is configured to access the particular Microsoft Exchange server within the enterprise email server on which the custodian s account resides which is known based on the information included in the Unified Directory copy all email located there including emails deleted by the custodian up to a predetermined period of time prior to the collection for example seven days prior to the collection and transmit the copied emails to the collections server .

Regardless of the storage resource location from which data is being collected or the particular type of data being collected the collections server is configured to store the data first while the collection is still ongoing in the short term staging drive until the particular collection is complete attach a barcode to the set of data resulting from the particular collection and then copy the data set to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. Furthermore the collections server transmits the barcode information to the electronic discovery management server to be stored in the database server for example in the custodian s profile in the Unified Database in relation to the stored information about the particular collection whether it was a local collection an active email collection a file server collection etc. Therefore the barcode can be used for reference at a later date to determine the origin of the data. After the data has been copied to the long term storage area network the collections server compares the hashing of the data in permanent storage to the original data in the staging drive and if the hashing is identical purges the data from the staging drive .

Once the data has entered the long term storage area network it is not necessarily ready for review. Indeed it is likely that the data may need to be processed before it is searchable and suitable for review by investigators and attorneys. For example the files may be encrypted in the form in which they are collected and sent to the long term storage area network . Therefore according to some embodiments the data may be copied to the conversion services server where a series of decryption and standardization functions may be applied to it. After the data is decrypted and standardized it is returned to the long term storage area network and may remain there to be accessed for review purposes.

With reference now to a block diagram is provided that illustrates the electronic discovery management structure of the present invention according to some embodiments. As illustrated in certain processes described herein may be categorized within one of case management as represented by Block custodian management as represented by Block or data management as represented by Block . As described above the electronic discovery system is arranged such that cases custodians and data may be managed independent of one another. However there is still an element of the categorization of processes within the categories that is conceptual and it should be understood that certain processes may be correctly assigned to more than one category. Therefore while the architecture of the system allows separate management of custodians cases and data certain processes of the present invention may affect more than one of the foregoing.

The first process that falls within the case management category is creation of a matter or case as a framework for litigation support activities as shown in Block . As described above the e discovery manager may enter into the user interface certain information about a particular matter or case such as a case name and or number a short description of the matter case a legal identifier the particular requester i.e. who asked for the case to be opened managers or contacts for the matter i.e. individuals involved in the substance of the matter rather than the process like the e discovery manager etc.

It is noted that custodian information is stored separately from the case information allowing for the same custodian in multiple cases. This provides for the electronic discovery system of the present invention to have scalability whereby evidence associated with one custodian may be used in multiple cases.

The electronic discovery management server stores this information in the case database in the database server . The case database houses this information such that all information relating to a particular matter or case is related within the case database and a user such as a manager or contact can use the user interface to view and edit a profile of the matter or case.

The next process within case management is the creation of preservation notices and surveys specific to the matter as shown in Block . In this regard the e discovery manager may through the user interface either generate a new preservation notices or surveys relevant to the particular case or matter to be stored in the case profile in the case database or alternatively link a preservation notice or survey already stored in the database server to the case profile of the specific case or matter at issue. Also within case management is the creation of search terms pertinent to the case as represented by Block . As described above the e discovery manager or a contact or manager for the case may use the user interface to input individual search terms or search term sets to be applied to the data harvested in the case. In some embodiments the search terms may be limited to be used with particular custodians and or with particular harvested data types. The search terms will be saved in the case database so that they may be readily applied to harvested data and used in connection with storing the resulting responsive data.

The processes of entering relevant attachments notes and updates to a particular case or matter also falls within the case management category as demonstrated by Blocks and . The e discovery manager or a case contact or manager may use the user interface to upload documents and enter notes and other relevant data including updates and reminders to be stored in the case profile of the case in the case database . Once these attachments notes and updates are added they may be referenced whenever a user views the case profile through the user interface . The cost estimation modules of the present invention are also processes that are categorized as case management processes as shown in Block . In this regard the electronic discovery management server utilizes a cost estimation application to determine the cost of harvesting and reviewing data based on a number of factors including for example number of custodians amount of harvested data data types etc. Finally case management also includes a number of tasking and workflow processes that are represented by block .

Moving now to custodian management certain processes falling within the category of custodian management are shown in Block . While the processes involving generation of the Unified Directory certainly could be categorized as custodian management the processes shown in include those processes involving management of custodians within the scope of a case or matter. In that regard the first process of custodian management included in is the addition of custodians to a case or matter as shown in Block . As described above the e discovery manager may use the user interface to link a custodian s profile from the Unified Directory to the particular case profile in the case database . Thus the custodian profile and case profile are correlated. The next processes within custodian management is the transmission of preservation notices and surveys to custodians as shown in Block and the presentation of the surveys to custodians as shown in Block . The electronic discovery management server uses the contact information in the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory to transmit the preservation notice s and survey s stored in the case profile to the custodian. In some embodiments a standard email function is used so that the only information needed from the Unified Directory is the custodian s email address. When the custodian checks her email the survey will appear as a message therein and when she opens that message the survey will be presented to her. The survey may be configured such that when she fills it out the survey is automatically transmitted back to the database server for storage in the case profile and the custodian s profile.

Also falling within custodian management is the process of releasing custodians from a matter to a case as shown in Block . The e discovery manager uses the user interface to mark the custodian s profile so that the custodian is now activated for collection of data. This may occur within the case database since the custodian s profile is linked thereto. Once the custodian is released marked the electronic discovery management server may access the custodian s profile and initialize collection based on the various data storage locations identified in the profile. Therefore as represented by Block the electronic discovery management server may automatically determine the data types and locations of data to be harvested by accessing the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory . Alternatively the e discovery manager may manually make the same determination by accessing and viewing the custodian s profile. Finally as with case management custodian management also includes a number of tasking and workflow processes that are represented by Block .

The last category is data management represented by Block . One major set of processes within data management are the processes relating to the harvesting of data as shown in Block . These processes include the collection of data from all the different storage areas of a particular custodian including the custodian s local storage on her personal computer s the custodian s network storage areas the custodian s email and any other areas as are described herein. All of the data in the various storage areas is copied and transmitted to the collections server as described in detail for each particular collection application or process. Upon reaching the collections server data resulting from a particular collection is temporarily stored in the short term staging drive until the collection is complete at which point it is stored in the long term storage area network in association with a specific identifying barcode. The foregoing process is represented by Block . The data may require decryption or standardization functions to be applied to it in order for it to be searchable and or otherwise usable so the next process that falls within data management is the copying of the data to the conversion services server for analysis and conversion as necessary as shown in Block . Once the data is converted it is returned to the long term storage area network to be used in review.

Also falling within data management is the association of particular data sets with particular sets of search terms stored in the case profile of the case database . In this regard certain search terms stored in the case profile are stored with the intention of being applied to certain types of data and or certain custodian s data. Alternatively certain search terms may be applied to all data collected for a specific case. In either instance the electronic discovery management server accesses the case profile determines the search terms to be applied and associates the search terms with the barcode of the appropriate data sets in long term storage. Thus the search terms will be applied to that data and the results will be generated and presented to reviewers for analysis. Finally as with the other management categories data management also includes a number of tasking and workflow processes that are represented by Block .

With reference to an exemplary process for managing a case is provided in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. As represented by Block a case or matter is created by the e discovery manager and stored in the case database . Next custodians are added to the case as shown in Block by linking the custodian profiles of the Unified Directory to the case profile. Next as represented by Block the e discovery manager and or the case contact or manager adds search terms to be applied to data harvested for the case including instructions as to applying the search terms to particular data types or custodians. Block represents the determination that must be made as to whether there is a matter or just a case. If there is no matter because preservation notices are not required for example for an audit then the process will move straight to the initialization of data collection. On the other hand if there is matter rather than just a case then the creation of preservation notices is required as shown in Block .

The preservation notice as shown in Block is transmitted to the custodians added to the matter perhaps using email. As shown in Block a reminder notice module may be employed. As shown in Block the reminder notice module transmits periodic reminder notices to custodians. The notices may be sent over email and may remind custodians about the preservation notice and or remind custodians to fill out surveys. With regard to surveys in the event a survey is required or desired according to Block a survey is created. The survey may be saved in the case profile in the case database . As shown in Block it is possible to enable the survey to be attached to and transmitted with the preservation notices.

Next as shown in Block the e discovery manager may release custodians from the matter to the case which initialized collection of the custodian s data. As shown in Block the e discovery manager or the electronic discovery management server accesses the custodian profile determines the data types and location to be collected and initializes the applicable collection applications to go collect the data. Once the data has been collected and a unique barcode has been assigned to each dataset based on the particular custodian and storage location from which it originated as shown in Block the search terms previously stored in the case profile may be assigned to the dataset based on the input instructions regarding the search terms. These search terms may be applied to the dataset and the results saved to be presented to reviewers for analysis.

With reference to an exemplary process for managing a custodian is provided in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. First as represented by Block a custodian is added to a matter or case. In this regard the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory is linked to the relevant case or matter profile. In order to locate the custodian s profile a custodian search module may be employed as shown in Block . Therefore the e discovery manager may enter any identifying information about the custodian whether it is the custodian s name network user identification email address etc. The custodian search module will take the input information and search the Unified Directory for a match. If more than one match is obtained the user interface will present all matches and allow the e discovery manager to browse the associated profiles to determine the intended custodian. In this way the correct custodian is identified and the profile of that custodian is linked to the appropriate case or matter.

As represented by Block the electronic discovery management server may determine whether the particular custodian added is a member of the enterprise do not call list. In this regard there may be an indication in the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory that the particular custodian should not be contacted regarding collections and an alternative contact should be used such as an administrative assistant of the custodian. Alternatively there may be a separate do not call list stored in the database server that must be accessed and searched to determine whether or not the custodian appears on that list. In either instance a determination is made as to whether or not the custodian should be directly contacted and in the event the custodian should not be directly contacted the contact information for the custodian s assistant or other stand in should be obtained. This information will be used later for transmitting preservation notices and surveys.

Next in accordance with Block a determination is made by the electronic discovery management server as to whether the custodian has been added to a matter or a case. If it is a case then the custodian is verified as shown in Block supplemental data may be added to the custodian profile in the Unified Directory as required as shown in Block and then the various collection applications are initialized by the electronic discovery management server for collection of the custodian s data as shown in Block . On the other hand if it is a matter then preservation notices are required. Therefore as shown in Block a preservation notice is sent via email to the custodian or custodian stand in. As shown in Block the custodian may then be inactivated from the case because for some reason data does not need to be collected from the custodian. In the future when it comes time to collect from the custodian the custodian will be reactivated as shown in Block .

After a preservation notice is sent a determination is made by the electronic discovery management server as to whether a survey is required as shown in Block . It should be noted that in alternate embodiments the decision on whether to send a survey may be made prior to sending the preservation notice. In such alternate embodiments if the survey is required it may become a component of the preservation notice and thus accessed simultaneously by the custodian. If a survey is required it is transmitted in conjunction with a preservation notice and the answers are collected by the electronic discovery management server and stored in the database server as shown in Block . Reminder notices for the preservation notices and surveys may also be transmitted to the custodian as shown in Block . Next once it is time to collect data the custodian is released from the matter to the case as shown in Block and the various collection applications are initialized by the electronic discovery management server for collection of the custodian s data as shown in Block . In this process the custodian s profile in the Unified Directory is accessed in order to determine the various locations where the custodian may have stored data. Finally as shown in Block the custodian s data is collected.

Referring to flow diagrams are presented of a method for harvest data from various data sources in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. At Event the collection of data ensues and at Event the type of data is identified. Data Block signifies active email that is collected from an exchange system or the like. At Event the automated active email collection application is implemented to collect email from identified email address. As previously noted and in accordance with present embodiments of the invention if a custodian profile for a custodian released for collection includes an email address for an email account on the enterprise email server then the electronic discovery management server may undertake to collect the files from the enterprise email server by initializing the active email collection application running on collections server . In some embodiments the active email collection application is configured to access the particular Microsoft Exchange server within the enterprise email server on which the custodian s account resides which is known based on the information included in the Unified Directory copy all email located there including emails deleted up to a designated prior period for example seven days prior to the collection and transmit the copied emails to the collections server . The email collection application is also capable of implementing bulk requests and for collecting email on a scheduled basis such as daily. The email collection application is additionally capable of being implementing enterprise wide and requires no server identifiers or the like to collect the active email. In this regard the email collection application serves to reduce security risk.

At Event a barcoding application is implemented at a staging location such as short term staging drive to attach a barcode to the set of email resulting from the particular collection. The barcoded data is then copied and communicated to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. Furthermore the collections server transmits the barcode information to the electronic discovery management server to be stored in the database server for example in the custodian s profile in the Unified Database in relation to the stored information about the particular collection. Therefore the barcode can be used for reference at a later date to determine the origin of the data. After the data has been copied to the long term storage area network the collections server compares the hashing of the data in permanent storage to the original data in the staging drive and if the hashing is identical purges the data from the staging drive . As such barcoding is performed without the need to execute the barcoding application on an exchange server and as such no human intervention is needed in the barcode process. In accordance with embodiments of the present invention one barcode may be assigned per custodian per data type and per event i.e. case matter etc. 

At Event the collected email data may be associated with a specific search term set or sets. When the search terms are applied a listing of the files and documents including those terms the search term hit list are presented to the reviewer and also stored in the database server . The reviewer may provide an indication of this to the electronic discovery management server which may then make a determination that other documents within the search term hit list are more likely to be responsive.

At Event the collected and barcoded active email data is copied to a processing drive for subsequent analysis. It should be noted that the nature of email data obviates the need to perform conversion and or decryption on the data set. At Event the active email data set is loaded into the analysis application and at Event the data set is exported to the requestor reviewer for analysis.

Data Block signifies other non exchange server based email such as email accessed through a client server collaborative application such as Lotus Notes or the like. At Event NSF files or any other file types associated with non exchange server based email is manually harvested from an enterprise grade email server having collaborative capabilities such as a Lotus Domino server or the like.

At Event a barcoding application is implemented at a staging location such as short term staging drive to attach a barcode to the set of non exchange server email resulting from the particular collection. The barcoded data is then copied and communicated to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. Furthermore the collections server transmits the barcode information to the electronic discovery management server to be stored in the database server for example in the custodian s profile in the Unified Database in relation to the stored information about the particular collection. Therefore the barcode can be used for reference at a later date to determine the origin of the data. After the data has been copied to the long term storage area network the collections server compares the hashing of the data in permanent storage to the original data in the staging drive and if the hashing is identical purges the data from the staging drive .

At Event the collected non exchange server email data may be associated with a specific search term set or sets. When the search terms are applied a listing of the files and documents including those terms the search term hit list are presented to the reviewer and also stored in the database server . The reviewer may provide an indication of this to the electronic discovery management server which may then make a determination that other documents within the search term hit list are more likely to be responsive.

At Event the NSF files or any other file types associated with non exchange server based email that may be encrypted is decrypted using a decryption application in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The encryption of NSF files occurs at the user level and therefore only the user has the password necessary for decryption. The decryption application allows for decryption of the NSF file type data without the knowledge of the user encrypter. The decryption application finds ID files that exist anywhere in the enterprise system creates a database of the ID files associates the database with the user encrypter and subsequently decrypts the data.

At Event the non exchange server email data set is loaded into the analysis application and at Event the data set is exported to the requestor reviewer for analysis.

Data Block signifies journaled data such as electronic commerce data stored on a repository for the purpose of regulation compliance to regulating bodies such as the Securities and Exchange Commission SEC or the like. At Event criteria is extracted from input system and manually entered in a designated third party system for data retrieval.

At Event the barcoding application is implemented at a staging location such as short term staging drive to attach a barcode to the set of journaled data resulting from the particular collection. The barcoded data is then copied and communicated to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. At Event the collected and barcoded journaled data may be associated with a specific search term set or sets.

At Event source to processing is implemented to insure that any loose files are properly formatted in a standardized format. In this regard according to one embodiment of the invention loose files are examined for relevancy and if relevant stored in a proper data format such as a PST file or the like. The metadata associated with the non standardized files is retained and remains with the reformatted data files. Source to processing file conversions may be required on EML formatted files MSG formatted files and the like.

At Event the journaled data set is loaded into the analysis application and at Event the journaled data set is exported to the requestor reviewer for analysis.

Referring to data block signifies data from a local Personal Computer PC such as enterprise PC . At Event the local collection application is implemented to collect data from designated PCs by taking a snapshot of the device s hard drive. According to one embodiment of the invention the local collection application may be autodeployed thus obviating the need for any manual entry by the e discovery manager or the like. In other embodiments of the invention the local collection application may be employed to collect data from network storage.

At Event the barcoding application is implemented at a staging location such as short term staging drive to attach a barcode to the set of local PC data resulting from the particular collection. The barcoded data is then copied and communicated to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. At Event the collected and barcoded local PC data may be associated with a specific search term set or sets.

At Event source to processing is implemented to insure that any loose files are properly formatted in a standardized format. In this regard according to one embodiment of the invention loose files are examined for relevancy and if relevant stored in a proper data format such as a PST file or the like. The metadata associated with the non standardized files is retained and remains with the reformatted data files. Source to processing file conversions may be required on EML formatted files MSG formatted files IPD formatted files and the like.

At Event the local PC files that may be encrypted are decrypted using a decryption application in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The decryption application allows for decryption of the PC files data without the knowledge of the user encrypter. The decryption application finds ID files that exist anywhere in the enterprise system creates a database of the ID files associates the database with the user encrypter and subsequently decrypts the data.

At Event the local PC data set is loaded into the analysis application and at Event the local PC data set is exported to the requestor reviewer for analysis.

Data block signifies data from network storage such as a shared drive or HomeSpace. At Event the file server collection application is implemented to automatically collect data from shared drives and or HomeSpace. According to one embodiment of the invention the file server collection application may be autodeployed thus obviating the need for any manual entry by the e discovery manager or the like.

At Event the barcoding application is implemented at a staging location such as short term staging drive to attach a barcode to the set of network storage data resulting from the particular collection. The barcoded data is then copied and communicated to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. At Event the collected and barcoded network storage data may be associated with a specific search term set or sets.

At Event source to processing is implemented to insure that any loose files are properly formatted in a standardized format. In this regard according to one embodiment of the invention loose files are examined for relevancy and if relevant stored in a proper data format such as a PST file or the like. The metadata associated with the non standardized files is retained and remains with the reformatted data files. Source to processing file conversions may be required on EML formatted files MSG formatted files IPD formatted files and the like.

At Event the network storage files that may be encrypted are decrypted using a decryption application in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The decryption application allows for decryption of the network storage data without the knowledge of the user encrypter. The decryption application finds ID files that exist anywhere in the enterprise system creates a database of the ID files associates the database with the user encrypter and subsequently decrypts the data.

At Event the network storage data set is loaded into the analysis application and at Event the network storage data set is exported to the requestor reviewer for analysis.

Data block signifies electronic data for forensics. At Event a forensic collector application such as EnCase may be executed on the devices of interest to collect data. According to one embodiment of the invention the forensic collector application may be automatically deployed on the device of interest without the knowledge of the device user. In accordance with another embodiment of the invention a computer monitoring application may be implemented not shown in or that monitors the network to determine the addition or subtraction of computers to the network based on network status indicators such as ID s IP addresses returned from the network.

At Event the barcoding application is implemented at a staging location such as short term staging drive to attach a barcode to the set of forensic data resulting from the particular collection. The barcoded data is then copied and communicated to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. At Event the collected and barcoded forensic data may be associated with a specific search term set or sets.

At Event source to processing is implemented to insure that any loose files are properly formatted in a standardized format. In this regard according to one embodiment of the invention loose files are examined for relevancy and if relevant stored in a proper data format such as a PST file or the like. The metadata associated with the non standardized files is retained and remains with the reformatted data files. Source to processing may be required on EML formatted files MSG formatted files IPD formatted files and the like.

At Event the forensic files that may be encrypted are decrypted using a decryption application in accordance with embodiments of the present invention. The decryption application allows for decryption of the network storage data without the knowledge of the user encrypter. The decryption application finds ID files that exist anywhere in the enterprise system creates a database of the ID files associates the database with the user encrypter and subsequently decrypts the data.

At Event the forensic data set is loaded into the analysis application and at Event the network storage data set is exported to the requestor reviewer for analysis.

Data block signifies collaborative data such as data residing at discovery sites for example LiveLink or the like. At Event a discovery site collector application such as a LiveLink collector application may be executed on the devices of interest to collect data. According to one embodiment of the invention the discovery site collector preserves at least a portion of the discovery site database in the e discovery database including all files and all revisions of the files. In this regard the discovery site collector application queries against the database to define what files need to be retrieved then copies those files based on the result of the query. Metadata pertaining to the files is retained in the case management system tables. In accordance with another embodiment of the invention the discovery site collector application collects the documents and the related metadata and uses the metadata to automatically rename the files.

At Event the barcoding application is implemented at a staging location such as short term staging drive to attach a barcode to the set of discovery site data resulting from the particular collection. The barcoded data is then copied and communicated to the long term storage area network for permanent storage. At Event the collected and barcoded discovery site data may be associated with a specific search term set or sets.

At Event source to processing is implemented to insure that any loose files are properly formatted in a standardized format. In this regard according to one embodiment of the invention loose files are examined for relevancy and if relevant stored in a proper data format such as a PST file or the like. The metadata associated with the non standardized files is retained and remains with the reformatted data files. Source to processing may be required on EML formatted files MSG formatted files IPD formatted files and the like.

At Event the discovery site data set is loaded into the analysis application and at Event the discovery site data set is exported to the requestor reviewer for analysis.

Thus present embodiments herein disclosed provide for improvements in electronic discovery. Embodiments herein disclosed provide for an enterprise wide e discovery system that provides for data to be identified located retrieved preserved searched reviewed and produced in an efficient and cost effective manner across the entire enterprise system. In addition by structuring management of e discovery based on case matter custodian and data and providing for linkage between the same further efficiencies are realized in terms of identifying locating and retrieving data and leveraging results of previous e discoveries with current requests.

Specifically embodiments of the invention previously disclosed provide for positive identification of individuals requiring addition as custodians to cases or matters within an electronic discovery system. The identification is performed simultaneously in bulk using disparate information related to the individuals. In this regard individuals can be positively identified through one specific identification procedure without having to search multiple databases to verify the identity of an individual custodian. In addition to positively identifying custodians the present invention provides for adding the identified custodians simultaneously in bulk to a case or matter and in some embodiments uploading or otherwise transferring custodian profile data to the case management system database as need be. Such processing adds further efficiency to the overall e discovery management process.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive on the broad invention and that this invention not be limited to the specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other updates combinations omissions modifications and substitutions in addition to those set forth in the above paragraphs are possible.

Those skilled in the art may appreciate that various adaptations and modifications of the just described embodiments can be configured without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Therefore it is to be understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced other than as specifically described herein.

