---

title: Interconnection architectures for multilayer crossbar circuits
abstract: An interconnection architecture for multilayer circuits includes metal-insulator transition channels interposed between address leads and each bar in the multilayer circuit. An extrinsic variable transducer selectively transitions the metal-insulator channels between insulating and conducting states to selectively connect and disconnect the bars and the address leads. A method for accessing a programmable crosspoint device within a multilayer crossbar circuit is also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08253443&OS=08253443&RS=08253443
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08253443
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101026
---
This invention has been made with government support. The government has certain rights in the invention.

In the past decades the semiconductor industry has been improving the performance and density of integrated circuits primarily by shrinking the size of the electronic elements within the circuits. However a number of barriers are becoming evident which increase the difficulty of making further reduction to the size of these elements. One potential solution for increasing the performance and planar density of integrated circuits is to create three dimensional circuits which contain multiple layers of interconnected circuitry.

Interconnections between a base plane and overlying circuit layers provide power read write access and programming capabilities throughout the three dimensional circuit. However these interconnections can consume valuable area within the circuit add significant levels of complexity to the layout and reduce the bit density of the circuit.

Throughout the drawings identical reference numbers designate similar but not necessarily identical elements.

In the past decades the semiconductor industry has been improving the performance and density of integrated circuits primarily by shrinking the size of the electronic elements within the circuits. However a number of barriers are becoming evident which increase the difficulty of making further reduction to the size of these elements. One potential solution for increasing the performance and planar density of integrated circuits is to create three dimensional circuits which contain multiple layers of interconnected circuitry. Interconnections between a base plane and the overlying circuit layers provide power read write access and programming capabilities throughout the three dimensional circuit. However these interconnections can consume valuable area within the circuit add significant levels of complexity to the layout and reduce the bit density of the circuit.

This specification addresses new addressing and wiring architectures for multi layer memristive crossbar memory. The architectures include Complimentary Metal Oxide Semiconductor CMOS circuitry a stack of overlying circuits such as memory plane layers and a wiring scheme which interconnects the CMOS layer circuitry with the stack of overlying circuits. A baseline interconnection scheme the Big Bend Architecture provides a simple and straight forward approach to interconnecting the CMOS layer circuitry and the stack of overlying circuitry. A second illustrative approach uses MIT switches to simplify the layer select mechanism and reduce the number of interconnections by several orders of magnitude. A third illustrative approach uses MIT transistors and MIT switches to create address circuitry in the stack of overlying circuitry. This reduces the number of interconnections by several more orders of magnitude.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present systems and methods. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present apparatus systems and methods may be practiced without these specific details. Reference in the specification to an embodiment an example or similar language means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment or example is included in at least that one embodiment but not necessarily in other embodiments. The various instances of the phrase in one embodiment or similar phrases in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

To write to a specific programmable crosspoint device a voltage difference applied to two vias which are connected to intersecting bars . Only the programmable crosspoint device which is at the intersection of the two bars sees the full programming voltage. Crosspoint devices which are connected to only one of the activated bars experience either half of the full programming voltage. Crosspoint devices which only see a portion of an applied voltage because they are attached to only one activated via bar are called half selected. The state of the half selected crosspoint devices does not change because they do not see the full writing voltage.

Crosspoint devices which are not connected to an activated bar do not experience a voltage difference. The unlabeled crosspoint devices in are the non selected devices both of their bars are at a zero or other intermediate voltage and therefore there is little or no voltage drop across them and thus their state does not change.

To read a given crosspoint device a number of techniques can be used. In one example a reading voltage is applied to two intersecting bars . The reading voltage is sufficiently lower than the writing voltage that there is not a significant change in the state of the programmable crosspoint devices. By applying the reading voltage and measuring the amount of current which flows through the programmable crosspoint device at the intersection between the bars its state can be determined.

According to one illustrative embodiment the programmable crosspoint devices may be memristive devices or memcapacitive devices. Memristive devices exhibit a memory of past electrical conditions. For example a memristive device may include a matrix material which contains mobile dopants. These dopants can be moved within a matrix to dynamically alter the electrical operation of an electrical device. The motion of dopants can be induced by the application of a programming electrical voltage across a suitable matrix. The programming voltage generates a relatively high electrical field through the memristive matrix and alters the distribution of dopants. After removal of the electrical field the location and characteristics of the dopants remain stable until the application of another programming electrical field. These changing dopant configurations within a matrix produce changes in the electrical resistance or other characteristics of the device. The memristive device is read by applying a lower reading voltage which allows the internal electrical resistance of the memristive device to be sensed but does not generate a high enough electrical field to cause significant dopant motion. Consequently the state of the memristive device may remain stable over long time periods and through multiple read cycles.

Additionally or alternatively the programmable crosspoint devices may be memcapacitive devices. According to one illustrative embodiment memcapacitive devices share operational similarities with memristors except the motion of dopants within the matrix primarily alters the capacitance of the device rather than its resistance.

According to one illustrative embodiment the multilayer circuit may be used to form a nonvolatile memory array. Each of the programmable crosspoint devices may be used to represent one or more bits of data. Although the bars are shown with rectangular cross sections bars can also have square circular elliptical or more complex cross sections. The bars may also have many different widths or diameters and aspect ratios or eccentricities.

Access transistors within the CMOS layer are relatively efficient switches with high ON OFF ratios and can be used to create read circuits for the overlying crossbar stack . The read circuit is configured to ascertain the state of a selected memristor in the presence of leakage from many half selected memristors in the crossbar layer. Since there is only one CMOS layer in the multilayer circuit and many crossbar layers the CMOS transistors should be carefully and efficiently utilized to access the programmable crosspoint devices. Although only four crossbar layers are shown in there are strong design motivations for increasing the number of crossbar layers. For example increasing the number of crossbar layers can increase the bit density and decrease the planar area occupied by a given component.

However finding an acceptable interconnection wiring in the multilayer circuit can be challenging. There can be a number of criteria and design goals which guide the overall design of the multilayer circuit . The interconnection wiring may have an influence on many aspects of the multilayer circuit design. According to one illustrative example the following criteria and design goals can be applied to the design of a multilayer memory circuit 1 The interconnection wiring connects multiple planes of memristor crossbar memory stacked vertically using only one bottom layer of CMOS circuitry. 2 The multilayer circuit design and interconnection wiring should achieve high bit density higher than can be achieved without multiple planes. 3 The multilayer circuit design and interconnection wiring should adequately handle practical electrical engineering issues such as wire resistance wire capacitance leakage through non selected and half selected memristors etc. 4 The multilayer circuit design should be competitive in terms of speed and power consumption. 5 The multilayer circuit design should provide read and write circuitry which is compatible with the crossbar structures and with a range of programmable crosspoint devices including memristive devices. 6 The multilayer circuit design should minimize to the extent possible the number of layers processing steps and masks required to fabricate the multi layer memory chip. This reduction in manufacturing complexity can reduce the cost to form the multilayer circuits. 7 The multilayer circuit design provides a memory which as seen externally has a one to one mapping between addresses and physical memory cells memristors that is a memory which is dense there are no holes in the address space and in which the physical bits are uniquely addressed there are no memristors with multiple addresses and no addresses which activate multiple memristors . As used in the specification and appended claims the term address space refers to a range of discrete addresses assigned to programmable crosspoint devices within a multilayer circuit. 8 The multilayer circuit design provides a memory system architecture which is compatible with the standard techniques for improving memory chip yield such as the use of error correcting codes ECC and the use of a locate and avoid technique which locates defects and replaces the defects with redundant resources. 9 The multilayer circuit design minimizes the overhead incurred by vias inter layer wiring decoders etc. so as to approach as closely as possible for the global density the inherent maximum local density of the memristive crossbar array. For example for a memristive crosspoint device the maximum local density may be 1 bit per 3F where F is the minimum lithographic feature size.

The criteria and design goals listed above are not exhaustive. Further meeting each of the criteria and design goals is not required. A number of desirable interconnection architectures could be created which may not meet all of the criteria and design goals. Additionally performance of the multilayer circuit in one category may be reduced to produce a resulting gain in another design category. The crossbar layers may be formed using a variety of methods which produce different and typically smaller feature sizes than conventional lithography. The principles below taught could be used in conjunction with a variety of manufacturing processes.

Further the descriptions herein are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit these principles to any precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching. For example the structure of the layers the number of layers and routing in some multilayer circuits may be significantly more complex and may require more masks and interconnections than the illustrated embodiment.

The Big Bend wiring scheme has the following characteristics. First the Big Bend wiring scheme is a simple geometric structure which incorporates a large number of vias in order to reduce the number of memristors connected to each via. Each of the M crossbar arrays is electrically isolated from the other layers and is accessed only from the CMOS layer . The CMOS layer is being utilized relatively effectively because the access transistors in the CMOS layer are laid out in a dense 2D grid driving the upward going vias.

According to one illustrative embodiment the raw address for a given memristor in the M crossbar layers consists of three coordinates Y which designates which via in the N direction in the west CMOS via array is selected X which designates which via in the E direction of the north CMOS via array is selected and Z which designates which layer within the M crossbar layers is selected. The Z coordinate is the same for both the west and the north via arrays. Thus Y Z coordinates select an east west bar connected to the specified west via and X Z coordinates select a north south bar connected to the specified north via. Only the memristor in the intersection of the east west bar and the north south bar is accessed for reading or writing. This is the selected memristor. Consequently the address X Y Z uniquely address all memristors in the multilayer circuit and there are no holes in the addressing space.

For purposes of illustration the following numeric example will be used. In this numeric example there are 2048 programmable junctions along each side of the N N matrix N 2 . There are 64 layers in the multilayer circuit M 2 . This results in a total of 268 435 456 programmable crosspoint devices N N M 2 . Using the Big Bend architecture the 2crosspoint devices are accessed through 2NM vias 2 2 2 2 262 144 vias . As shown in these vias may be divided into two or more groups which are distributed around and or under the multilayer stack . This relatively large number of vias can consume a significant amount of space and may reduce the bit density of the circuit. However the Big Bend architecture is a straight forward implementation.

There are number of alternative wiring configurations which can be used. The Big Bend architecture is only one illustrative example in a parameterized family of solutions. These solutions allow the following independent parameters to be varied the number of memory plane layers M the width of the crossbar array N and a via redundancy factor R . The Big Bend architecture represents a non redundant R 1 instance in which fully populated 4D addressing is provided with 2NM vias accessing NM memristors.

For the R 1 subspace the number of vias is increased by the factor R reducing the number of memristors accessible from each via in order to provide better read circuit performance. For all instances in this family of solutions there is a one to one correspondence between addresses and physical memory cells memristors and thus no holes in the address space. The 3D wiring structure is geometrically simple and provides the ability to scale the number of programmable crosspoint devices connected to each via independent of the crossbar width N and the number of layers M.

Other members of this parameterized family increase the number of memristors attached to each via by systematically collapsing squashing the wiring together so that each via drives multiple memory planes R

As shown in a change in temperature produced by the transducer may transition an MIT material from an insulator phase to metallic phase or vice versa. Dashed lines show the ranges of pressure and temperature changes in the MIT material that are produced by electrically activating the transducers. The dashed box formed by the intersection of lines illustrates the range of MIT states that pressures and or temperatures in the ranges can produce. In this example an increase in temperature drives the state of the MIT material vertically upward. As the state passes over the transition line between the insulating phase and into the metallic phase the MIT material becomes substantially more conductive. Similarly increases in pressure drive the MIT material to the right and across the transition line into the metallic phase. The combination of temperature and pressure changes within the ranges shown can move the MIT material from its beginning state to any state within the dashed rectangle. Consequently it is clear that the MIT material may be induced to change from an insulator state to a metallic state by changes in pressure alone change in temperature alone or a combination of changes in both pressure and temperature.

For example a change of a few degrees in the temperature of the MIT channel can result the state of the MIT channel crossing the transition line and decrease or increase in the electrical resistance of several orders of magnitude. Temperature changes of tens of degrees can result in increases or decreases of four to six orders of magnitude in resistance. The transition temperature and the sharpness of transition may be influenced by a variety of factors including the type of MIT material number of defects in the MIT material and the degree of crystallinity of the MIT material. In general the more crystalline the MIT material the sharper the transition between the metallic and insulator states.

To change the state of the MIT channels the gate electrode is electrically activated. This controls the extrinsic variable transducer which converts the electrical energy into an extrinsic variable which influences the transition of the MIT channels between their insulating and metallic states. The large change in resistance of the MIT channels acts as a switch between the left electrodes and the right electrodes . As discussed above this MIT switching device could have a number of advantages including simplicity of operation and construction small size low power requirements and the ability to be readily integrated into a number of different electronic devices.

In this example a single gate electrode and transducer control multiple switches. A number of other configurations could be used. For example the MIT channels could be controlled individually by a number of separate gate electrode transducers.

The embodiments described above are only illustrative examples. The MIT switching devices can be used in a variety of circuits configurations and be combined with a wide range of other electrical devices to perform a desired function. The MIT switching devices do not require crystalline substrates and thus can be formed on a variety of substrates. These switching devices can be used in a broad range of applications including flexible displays and multiplexer demultiplexer circuits in planes of a multilayer memory. The MIT channel is inherently scalable because the metal insulator transition is a bulk effect and consequently does not suffer from problems with dopant distributions on the nanoscale. The simplicity of the manufacturing process can potentially lead to low cost implementation of the metal insulator transition switching devices. Further the manufacturing process is scalable because there the electrode intersections and channel do not require precise alignment.

The MIT switching channels are interposed between each address lead and each of the bars . As used in the specification and appended claims the term address leads is used broadly and refers to electrical conductors which are directly attached to addressing logic or to electrical conductors which are attached to addressing logic through vertical vias. Address leads may carry a wide range of electrical signals including binary signals and analog signals and utilize a variety of address encodings including binary addressing in which N bits represent 2 N different addresses and unary or 1 of N addressing in which N bits represent N different addresses .

The state of the MIT switching channels is controlled by extrinsic variable transducers which are illustrated as dashed rectangles. The extrinsic variable transducers selectively transition the metal insulator channels between insulating and conducting states to connect and disconnect the bars and the address leads . A single extrinsic variable transducer and its associated layer access gate control all the MIT switching channels in the east west bars . Similarly a single extrinsic variable transducer and its associated layer access gate control all the MIT switching channels in the north west bars .

In addition to MIT channels which are interposed between address leads and bars in a crossbar array a variety of other electrically controlled switches could be used. For example memristors could be used to selectively connect an address leads to bar in the crossbar array. Memristors have a low resistance state when mobile dopants are spread through the memristive matrix and a high resistance state when the mobile dopants are moved to a concentrated area within the matrix. Thus memristors form an electrically controlled switch which can be used to selectively connect and disconnect an address lead from a bar in a crossbar array. Additionally or alternatively thin film transistors can be formed in the upper layers of the crossbar circuits. These thin film transistors can be electrically controlled to selectively connect and disconnect address leads from bars in a crossbar array.

Returning to the numeric example above where there are 2048 programmable junctions along each side of the N N matrix N 2 and 64 crossbar layers M 2 in the multilayer circuit. This results in a total of 268 435 456 programmable crosspoint devices N N M 2 . These 2crosspoint devices are accessed through 2N 2M vias 2 2 2 2 2 8192 vias . This is a reduction in the number of vias of approximately two orders of magnitude. As a result the bit density for this design can be significantly higher than for the Big Bend or other architectures which have a higher number of vias. Further the overall foot print of the multilayer circuit is reduced.

Additionally or alternatively the logic circuitry could be formed in the multilayer circuit using any transistor like electrically controlled switch. For example thin film transistors memristors or other electrically controlled switches could be used to fill the role of conventional CMOS transistors.

As shown above incorporating addressing circuitry within each layer allows the number of vias connecting the base layer to the overlying crossbar layers to be further reduced. shows one illustrative addressing scheme . This addressing scheme can be applied to the numeric example described above. In this example the addressing scheme is used to address a 64 layer circuit where N 2048 and each layer has Nprogrammable crosspoint devices. The addressing scheme uses 30 vias to communicate a 28 bit address from the base layer to the addressing circuitry in each layer. The 28 bit address is used to selectively access any of the 2programmable crosspoint devices. The two additional vias lines are used to perform read write operations in the multilayer circuit.

In this example the first 11 lines are used to communicate an 11 bit address to the north demultiplexer . This allows the north demultiplexer to select one of 2048 north west bars. When a given address is received the north demultiplexer activates the appropriate north west bar in each of the 64 layers. The second 11 lines are attached to the west demultiplexer which selects the one of the 2048 east west bars. The west demultiplexer also activates the appropriate east west bar in each of the 64 layers.

To direct the desired operation to only one of the programmable cross point devices in the multilayer circuit the layer select circuit is used. The layer select circuit connects the bars in only one layer to the output of the north and west demultiplexer in that layer. In this manner only each of the programmable crosspoint devices in the multilayer circuit can be uniquely addressed using the 28 bit address. In other embodiments a set of bits a word could be written or read in parallel with one bit to each memory plane. One method of reading and writing words in parallel is to have a number of vias which is equal to the number of memory plane layers. For example if the number of memory planes is 64 M 64 then there are 64 data vias with one via connected to each memory plane. Each of these data vias carries one bit to or from a particular memory plane. Two additional vias a Read Enable via and a Write Enable via also go to each plane. This configuration allows each plane to operate independently and in parallel with other planes. All 64 layers could perform read or write operations simultaneously. The 64 data vias are bi directional conveying a signal down to the CMOS read circuitry during a read operation but carrying the data bit to be written up to its plane from the CMOS during a write operation.

An extrinsic variable transducer in one layer is activated . The extrinsic variable transducer alters the state of metal insulator transition channels interposed between address leads and crossbar segments in that layer such that electrical signals from first and second address leads are conducted to a first crossbar segment and a second crossbar segment. A programmable crosspoint device which is interposed between the first crossbar segment and second crossbar segment can then be accessed for reading or writing .

In conclusion the interconnection architectures for multilayer crossbar circuits which incorporate MIT channels can significantly reduce the number of address vias and address lines between a base layer and overlying layers. This can decrease the size and complexity of the circuit while simultaneously increasing the bit density within the circuit.

The preceding description has been presented only to illustrate and describe embodiments and examples of the principles described. This description is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit these principles to any precise form disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching.

