---

title: Classifying the position of a wireless device
abstract: Aspects describe using mobile device telemetry data with location reports from a small fraction of reporting devices to pre-compute a set of categorizing formulas that can quickly assign devices of unknown latitude, longitude, and/or altitude to specific values of latitude, longitude, and/or altitude. The described aspects perform a large percentage of complicated calculations in advance of a particular device of unknown location presenting itself on the radio network. Thus, the categorizing formulas can be applied to categorize the device into a particular range of latitude, longitude, and/or altitude with minimal delays. Various aspects relate to enabling an efficient and highly scalable implementation of mobile device advertising, social networking, and other applications that may reply in rapid, real time delivery of “WITHIN” or NOT WITHIN a “fenced-in” region or geography or shape of space.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08509806&OS=08509806&RS=08509806
owner: AT&T Intellectual Property I, L.P.
number: 08509806
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101214
---
The subject disclosure relates to wireless communications and more particularly to location determination of mobile devices in a wireless communications network.

In wireless communications networks there are some mobile devices equipped with Global Positioning Systems GPS or other location determination mechanisms that can provide the location information to the communications network. However there are a large number of mobile devices that do not have location determination mechanisms and or do not have the means to autonomously provide accurate location information to the communications network.

The mobile service provider s knowledge of the precise location of mobile devices at all times within the communications network can provide valuable benefits to users of the mobile devices as well as opportunities for improved or additional services above and beyond basic connectivity services. Typical communication networks provide access to various communication services e.g. voice video data messaging content broadcast Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP and so on for mobile devices. Further knowledge of the precise location of the mobile devices within the communication network at all times can allow for location centric services or information associated with the mobile device to be provided. For example services such as Emergency 911 E911 services mapping services traffic information services advertising services and other services can be provided as a function of the location. Further mobile device location information can be employed to improve network performance to troubleshoot networks to assist local law enforcement to aggregate valuable demographic information and an unlimited number of other uses.

Since a large number of mobile devices might not have mechanisms for determining location and or continuously reporting such information various solutions have been proposed for determining location information uniformly for all devices at the same time. For example some techniques include measuring the timing delay of the signals transmitted between a wireless base station and the wireless handset and applying various location services or methods including but not limited to cell global identity and timing advance CGI TA CGI and round trip time CGI RTT time of arrival TOA or other custom methods. Such networking timing delays include site timing delay in the wireless signal path among radio component s at the wireless base station and a sector antenna. Network timing delays can also include delays that can arise from various mismatches e.g. impedance mismatch among electronic elements and components stray capacitances and inductances length of the antenna s cable s in base station s tower height of the base station signal path scattering or signal bounces such as multipath or strong reflections and the like. Propagation delay between a mobile device and a NodeB is conventionally assumed to be negligible with respect to timing delay. However depending on the architecture of the serving base station and covered sector antenna s signal propagation delay can be substantive particularly in distributed antenna systems and low power wireless radio cells and can cause significant error in mobile device location determinations as proposed by traditional techniques.

Other conventional techniques use a small number of GPS reporting mobile stations to develop fingerprints and or to solve multiple simultaneous equations as needed to calculate the location of devices that report measurements. For example some conventional techniques involve solving multiple simultaneous equations at the time of arrival of new timing measurements from mobile devices of unknown location. The time required to solve the equations is lengthy fundamentally driving up the cost of the many equations that must be solved at a rate equal to the arrival of messages from mobile devices having unknown location.

Some other techniques have attempted to solve the location problem by using a bin fingerprinting technique. In this technique the number of bins that must be searched to find a bin that best matches the reported measurements can be time consuming since the number of bins can be large. This is especially true if the bins must be cubes as might be used to support the calculation of altitude values. Consequently it would be desirable to have the ability to quickly determine location information of one or more devices in an efficient manner.

Conventionally various solutions have been proposed for determining location information. However none of the solutions proposed for determining location information has addressed all of the above requirements and such a solution would be desirable to significantly improve efficiency of determining location information.

The above described deficiencies of today s location systems and techniques are merely intended to provide an overview of some of the problems of conventional systems and are not intended to be exhaustive. Other problems with conventional systems and corresponding benefits of the various non limiting embodiments described herein may become further apparent upon review of the following description.

A simplified summary is provided herein to help enable a basic or general understanding of various aspects of exemplary non limiting embodiments that follow in the more detailed description and the accompanying drawings. This summary is not intended however as an extensive or exhaustive overview. Instead the sole purpose of this summary is to present some concepts related to some exemplary non limiting embodiments in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description of the various embodiments that follow.

The geographical location of a mobile device in a wireless communications network may be determined by classifying the observed time difference measurements reported by the radio access network into likely ranges of geographic coordinates e.g. latitude longitude and or altitude . More specifically a classification system that is trained by the use of historical data of known timing measurements reported by a relatively small number of mobile devices having known geographical positions e.g. location aware devices is used to classify the geographic location of a relatively large number of device having unreported geographic locations e.g. non location aware devices .

Further methods and apparatuses are disclosed that compute a set of optimally classifying hyperplanes in advance of the receipt of timing measurements from mobile devices having an unknown location using data from mobile devices having precisely known locations . The set of optimally classifying hyperplanes may be readily applied in order to classify the location of other devices having unknown geographic location to a particular range of latitude longitude altitude or other geographic coordinate values.

Various aspects relate to utilizing classification at substantially the same time as AGPS calibrated timing differences. By calibrating the large number of timing measurement differences with a small number of AGPS measurements training vectors may be calculated in a region surrounding any given point of interest. When such training data is collected and categorized in advance all such vectors may be processed to determine NEAR or not NEAR without the intermediate step of computing latitude longitude and altitude for every cell phone location.

Use of near and not near classifications can efficiently scale to an unlimited number of points of interest and a very large number of mobile device subscribers where calculating the intersection of latitude longitude of the mobile device with a large numbers of points of interest would be cost prohibitive and untimely. Conventional techniques involving the polling of user specific latitude longitude and altitude do not efficiently scale to a large number of subscribers and a constant stream of location updates. By combining the provided timing differences with a classifier e.g. Support Vector Machine that efficiently determines between NEAR and NOT NEAR locations the solution readily scales to all mobile device users and millions of locations. In addition the solution equally handles altitude as a property of nearby .

Various aspects of the disclosed subject matter are now described with reference to the drawings. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of one or more aspects. It may be evident however that such aspect s may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing these aspects.

Determining location information of mobile devices is desirable in order to provide value services and features. It is also desirable to perform such locating in an efficient and accurate manner. Thus it would be beneficial to combine principles of calculating separating hyperplanes for purposes of classification of multi dimensional measures with the capacity of a network to provide copies of assisted global positioning system AGPS and dedicated channel timing offsets. Through the combination of the three previously uncombined capabilities e.g. hyperplanes AGPS offsets the accuracy scalability and reliability of location based services can be advanced.

The one or more aspects described herein can calculate in advance a set of optimally separating hyperplanes using measurements from mobile devices that report their location. Performing such calculations in advance of the arrival of measurement from mobile devices whose location is unknown can mitigate the overall cost for the same rate of device location calculations. Furthermore since the disclosed aspects do not explicitly calculate fixed size geographic bins that are individually searched the search for a particular latitude longitude altitude or other coordinate value for the mobile device having an unknown location using the one or more disclosed aspects can be faster and can be more precise. A geographic coordinate system as used herein is a coordinate system that enables every location on the Earth to be specified by a set of numbers or coordinates. The coordinates are chosen such that two of the numbers represent a horizontal position and one of the numbers represents a vertical position. Generally the coordinates are latitude longitude and altitude or elevation .

In one embodiment a computer readable storage medium comprises computer executable code instructions stored therein wherein in response to execution by at least one processor the computer executable code performs operations comprising creating at least one classification of values for dimensions of a coordinate of a geographic coordinate system and receiving an array of measurements from a mobile device. The operations also comprise determining a location of the mobile device based on the at least one classification of values and the array of measurements including determining the coordinate of the geographic coordinate system.

In accordance with some aspects the receiving comprises receiving at least one of a timing offset for an individual base station measurements for a pair of base stations indicator variables power measurements or combinations thereof. According to some aspects the determining comprises individually calculating at least one of a latitude a longitude or an altitude of the geographic coordinate system.

Further various aspects disclosed herein relate to categorizing mobile devices as a function of whether the mobile device is near or not near a particular point of interest. The point of interest can be a fixed point having a pre determined latitude longitude and altitude and a variable geographical zone of arbitrary shape surrounding such point is provided. Conventionally such categorization relies on a mutual determination of latitude and longitude of both the point of interest and the mobile device. In contrast the various aspects disclosed herein can mitigate the need to calculate the latitude and longitude of the mobile device and can more directly classify the mobile device as near or not near a particular point of interest. In accordance with some aspects the classification is performed through use of a Support Vector Machine SVM at substantially the same time as timing measures calibrated by AGPS measures for each pair of base stations.

Various aspects related to categorization associated with a point of interest are advantageous because of the ability to scale to a very large number of such points of interest. A further advantage is the ability to handle complex geographic map shapes as may be needed to follow a certain highway or coast line for example . Another advantage is the ability to avoid the intermediate step of calculating the geographic coordinates at any particular degree of resolution for the mobile device. In addition the various aspects can readily extend to cover points of interest having a specific altitude and or range of altitudes which might be the case in urban canyons or other areas.

By way of further description with respect to one or more non limiting ways to ascertain location information is a schematic example wireless environment that can operate in accordance with aspects described herein. In particular example wireless environment illustrates a set of wireless network macro cells. Three coverage macro cells and comprise the illustrative wireless environment however it should be appreciated that wireless cellular network deployments can encompass any number of macro cells for example coverage macro cells. Coverage macro cells and are illustrated as hexagons however coverage cells can adopt other geometries generally dictated by a deployment configuration or floor plan geographic areas to be covered and so on. Each macro cell and is sectorized in a 2 3 configuration in which each macro cell includes three sectors demarcated with dashed lines in . It should be appreciated that other sectorizations are possible and aspects or features of the disclosed subject matter can be exploited regardless of type of sectorization. Macro cells and are served respectively through base stations or NodeBs and . Any two NodeBs can be considered a NodeB site pair NBSP . It is noted that radio component s are functionally coupled through links such as cables e.g. RF and microwave coaxial lines ports switches connectors and the like to a set of one or more antennas that transmit and receive wireless signals not illustrated . It is noted that a radio network controller not shown which can be a part of mobile network platform s and set of base stations e.g. Node B and that serve a set of macro cells electronic circuitry or components associated with the base stations in the set of base stations a set of respective wireless links e.g. links and operated in accordance to a radio technology through the base stations form a macro radio access network RAN . It is further noted that based on network features the radio controller can be distributed among the set of base stations or associated radio equipment. In an aspect for UMTS based networks wireless links and embody a Uu interface UMTS Air Interface .

Mobile network platform s facilitates circuit switched CS based e.g. voice and data and packet switched PS e.g. internet protocol IP frame relay or asynchronous transfer mode ATM traffic and signaling generation as well as delivery and reception for networked telecommunication in accordance with various radio technologies for disparate markets. Telecommunication is based at least in part on standardized protocols for communication determined by a radio technology utilized for communication. In addition telecommunication can exploit various frequency bands or carriers which include any EM frequency bands licensed by the service provider e.g. personal communication services PCS advanced wireless services AWS general wireless communications service GWCS and so forth and any unlicensed frequency bands currently available for telecommunication e.g. the 2.4 GHz industrial medical and scientific IMS band or one or more of the 5 GHz set of bands . In addition mobile network platform s can control and manage base stations and and radio component s associated thereof in disparate macro cells and by way of for example a wireless network management component e.g. radio network controller s cellular gateway node s etc. Moreover wireless network platform s can integrate disparate networks e.g. femto network s Wi Fi network s femto cell network s broadband network s service network s enterprise network s and so on . In cellular wireless technologies e.g. 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Global System for Mobile Communication GSM wireless network platform is embodied in a core network and a set of radio network controllers.

In addition wireless backhaul link s can include wired link components like T1 E1 phone line a digital subscriber line DSL either synchronous or asynchronous an asymmetric DSL ADSL an optical fiber backbone a coaxial cable etc. and wireless link components such as line of sight LOS or non LOS links which can include terrestrial air interfaces or deep space links e.g. satellite communication links for navigation . In an aspect for UMTS based networks wireless backhaul link s embodies IuB interface.

It should be appreciated that while exemplary wireless environment is illustrated for macro cells and macro base stations aspects features and advantages of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented in microcells picocells femto cells or the like wherein base stations are embodied in home based access points.

Timing of wireless signals can take into consideration the time from wave signal generation or output at radio equipment or a transmitter e.g. a mobile device or a NodeB to detection at a receiver e.g. a mobile device or a NodeB . Such timing includes site timing through link s to antenna s and propagation time over the air interface or wireless channel. Timing delay typically is caused by various sources e.g. mismatches among electronic elements and components e.g. impedance mismatch stray capacitances and inductances length of the antenna s cable s in base station s tower height of base station whereas timing delay spread generally originates from any signal path scattering or signal bounces such as multipath strong reflections etc. and the like. A mobile device observed time difference C includes both a cell site timing portion A and a RF propagation portion B such that A B C. Further where cell site location and mobile device location are known the RF propagation time B can be deduced e.g. B distance between mobile device and cell site speed of light . Using the deduced RF propagation time B and observed mobile device time difference C the cell site timing A can be calculated as A C B. Site timing A is relatively stable over periods of hours to days for most modern network equipment. Once A is determined C can be measured for additional mobile devices and the RF propagation time i.e. B for theses additional mobile devices can be determined by B C A. RF propagation time B can then be converted into a distance e.g. B speed of light distance and using one or more of the disclosed aspects mobile devices positions can be identified.

Determining the values of B by geometry can be facilitated by having knowledge of the location of the NodeB and the mobile device. NodeB locations are typically known with high levels of precision as these are normally permanent installations. Further the location of a particular mobile device can be determined using internal GPS systems e.g. AGPS usually to within 5 10 meter accuracy . Thus an AGPS enabled mobile device can facilitate the determination of A as disclosed herein such that the location of non location aware mobile devices in a macro cell can be calculated for example by using the determination of A to create classifying hyperplanes in advance of receiving timing measurements from the non location aware mobile devices.

By way of further description with respect to one or more non limiting ways to ascertain location information for non location aware mobile devices a diagram of an exemplary wireless communication network is illustrated generally by . Wireless network types can include Universal Mobile Telecommunications Systems UMTS Long Term Evolution LTE High Speed Packet Access HSPA Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Multi Carrier Code Division Multiple Access MC CDMA Single Carrier Code Division Multiple Access SC CDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Single Carrier FDMA SC FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiple Access OFDMA and so on.

Communication network can include a first base station a second base station and a third base station . Each base station can be associated with a cell identifier CellID and can have a known geographic position. For example the first base station is associated with CellID and is at 33.0598331 degrees latitude Lat and 96.7216669 degrees longitude Lon . The second base station is associated with CellID and is at 33.0476389 degrees latitude and 96.7225561 degrees longitude. Further the third base station is associated with CellID and is at 33.0669719 degrees latitude and 96.7372781 degrees longitude. As stated previously the installation of NodeBs are generally permanent and therefore the location of the base stations generally does not change.

Also included in communication network is a mobile device that can receive signals from or send signals to the first base station the second base station and or the third base station . In an example when the mobile device receives a signal from the first base station the signal includes CellID which identifies the base station. It should be understood that communication network could include a multitude of base stations that communicate with a multitude of mobile devices. However only three base stations and a single mobile device are illustrated and described herein for purposes of simplicity.

The mobile device can be configured to provide to communication network e.g. one or more base stations a Radio Resource Control RRC report that includes measurements performed by the mobile device . In accordance with some aspects the mobile device transmits the RRC report periodically continuously randomly variably or based on a different time interval criteria and or occurrence of an event.

According to some embodiments each of the mobile devices included in communication network provide respective RRC reports e.g. under 3GPP standards . However the disclosed aspects are not so limited and there might be situations where only a subset of mobile devices provide respective RRC reports. Further although the term RRC report is utilized herein it should be understood that other types of reports or measurements can be provided by mobile devices and the disclosed aspects are not limited to RRC reports.

The RRC report or other report can provide information related to Timing Offsets Measurements Tm for each base station. For example the RRC report provided by the mobile device includes the CellID of each base station being reported a timing offset Off a timing measurement Tm and a received signal code power RSCP . It should be noted that other information might also be included in the RRC report or other report however only the information noted is discussed herein for purposes of describing the one or more disclosed aspects.

As discussed some mobile devices are location aware and therefore are capable of ascertaining and providing location information which can include latitude longitude and altitude. Other mobile devices are non location aware and therefore might not be capable of ascertaining and providing location information. As shown in mobile device provides its assisted global positioning system AGPS location of 33.05329084 degrees latitude and 96.73210859 degrees longitude. Although not illustrated the mobile device might also reports its altitude. When a location aware mobile device provides its location that location can be utilized at substantially the same time as at least a portion of the information included in the RRC report to create and or update a location model which is utilized later for classification and location determination of a non location aware mobile device.

A block diagram of an exemplary communication system is illustrated generally by . The communication system includes an environment which can be a communications network. Various parameters measured by one or more mobile devices within the environment are provided in the form of one or more arriving measurements . A location manager component intercepts the arriving measurements from the environment and processes respective locations of devices based on the arriving measurements to generate update and or obtain one or more hyperplanes or location models . The one or more location models can be subsequently provided to a categorization processing component for location determination of a non location aware mobile device.

As shown location manager component and categorization processing component can be included in a communication apparatus . The communication apparatus can employ a classification scheme as opposed to a search scheme to classify a combined set of measurements wherein each measurement is classified with respect to the range of latitude longitude and or altitude the measurement should be in based on the classification scheme.

The location manager component can be configured to organize and store measurements from the external environment which includes RRC measurement reports from individual devices wherein the measurements are aligned and organized for use by the categorization processing component . In accordance with some aspects some of the historical measurements e.g. reports have corresponding AGPS measurements available while other historical measurements do not have corresponding AGPS measurements. The location manager component is configured to recognize the difference between historical measurements with AGPS measurements and without AGPS measurements. In accordance with some aspects the location manager component is configured to use and reference the reports that include AGPS which by their nature are self classified as to their geographic coordinates to create and update a classification model which can be provided to the categorization processing component . The categorization processing component can utilize the available location models and assign a geographic coordinate e.g. latitude longitude altitude category to all devices including those devices lacking AGPS assignments. The assignment is performed consistent with the operation of the categorization processing component .

The classification scheme can be readily derived by computing a hyperplane in the space containing vectors of measurements. These vectors may be readily assembled by concatenating reported measurements and other facts known about the mobile devices at the time each mobile device reports its measurements.

For instance location manager component can be configured to evaluate the one or more arriving measurements and if location information is included with the arriving measurements location manager component develops a set of training vectors and classifications of where devices are historically located. Based on the training vectors and historical locations location manager component can create a hyperplane that divides a geographical location. The hyperplanes can be retained as one or more location models. The hyperplanes can later be used by categorization processing component to ascertain a location which can include latitude longitude and altitude of a non location aware mobile device. Each type of location or geographic coordinate e.g. latitude longitude altitude can be calculated separately in accordance with an aspect.

If the arriving measurements do not include location information e.g. received from a non location aware device location manager component can be configured to access a database that includes previously created hyperplanes or location models. Based on the hyperplanes categorization processing component evaluates measurements received from a non location aware device and determines the location e.g. latitude longitude and or altitude of the non location aware device. In accordance with some aspects the location information can be communicated to the non location aware device. According to some aspects the location information is used by the network services provider to provide services and or to optimize the operation and performance of the network itself.

In accordance with some aspects the location manager component is configured to receive at least one measurement from a location aware mobile device and create a location model. According to an example the location manager component is further configured to determine at least one classification of values for one or more dimensions of latitude longitude and or altitude using an array of measurements reported by the location aware mobile device.

The categorization processing component is configured to utilize the location model to determine a location of a non location aware mobile device. In another example the categorization processing component is further configured to utilize the at least one classification of values to determine the location of the non location aware mobile device. Additionally or alternatively the categorization processing component is further configured to receive the at least one measurement from the non location aware mobile device and classify the at least one measurement in a sequence of classification operations that provide upper and lower bounds for at least one of a latitude a longitude and an altitude.

In accordance with some aspects the categorization processing component is further configured to utilize one or more kernel functions that map a vector of measurements provided by the non location aware mobile device to a set of measurements in a higher dimension. Additionally or alternatively the categorization processing component is further configured to individually evaluate a latitude a longitude and or an altitude to determine the location of the non location aware mobile device.

Illustrating other aspects is a block diagram showing a location manager component containing a developer component an assignment component and a partition component . Location manger component is configured to evaluate locations with reference to timing measurements as reported by location aware devices located within a communications environment. The measurement reports e.g. RRC Report of can include identification of base stations CellID and measurements related to the base stations which can include timing measurements for the individual base stations.

In one embodiment upon receiving the one or more arriving measurements that include location data the developer component is configured to produce a set of training vectors. To create the set of training vectors the developer component can take into account historical measurements as well as the newly received location data and arriving measurements. In accordance with some aspects developer component can be configured to determine timing offsets for each pair of base stations. For example if there are two base stations developer component can evaluate the pair and determine the timing offset for the pair. In another example if there are three base stations A B and C developer component can evaluate three pairs A B B C and A C and determine the timing offset for each of the three pairs and so forth.

In an example developer component calculates training vectors above and below a given value of latitude longitude and or altitude. For this example three training vectors have known classifications. A first training vector is at 32.0 degrees latitude lower test point a second training vector is at 34.0 degrees latitude upper test point and a third training vector is at 33.0 degrees latitude latitude of interest .

System performance can be enhanced with respect to calculation speed and memory by augmenting the three vectors by increasing the number of dimensions in the hyperplane problem to include dimensions corresponding to certain indicator variables that are Boolean values indicating which pair of mobile base stations is relevant to the solution. For example the three vectors can be supplemented with Boolean values 1 or 0 corresponding to which base station pair is part of the measurement set and or which base station pair is not part of the measurement set. An example of supplemented vectors can be 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 2 5 7 classification 1 where 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 are indicator values for pairs of CellIDs in the report and 2 5 7 are the geographical position difference values for specific pairs of Cell IDs.

Other examples of supplemented vectors are 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 3 5 6 classification 1 and 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 2 5 6 classification 0

The assignment component is configured to organize the device locations as it relates to latitude longitude and or altitude for each measurement. For example since the mobile device also reported its location information for each pair a reference offset difference and an expected geographic distance to each CellID in the pair is determined by assignment component .

The partition component uses the set of training vectors and device locations to create a hyperplane to divide the geographic area of interest. For example developer component is configured to calculate timing differences between available pairs of cells or base stations. A mobile device such as mobile device of conveys a measurement report and position information wherein the measurement report e.g. RRC report of can include reports of timing delays associated with individual base stations. As shown in the timing delays of the individual base stations may be transformed to reports of delays associated with specific pairs of base stations not the individual base stations shown as CellID Pair . For each CellID Pair a reported time measurement Tm difference can be calculated and can be expressed in terms of chips which is a unit of measurement resolution which are approximately 78 meter units. According to some aspects that utilize 3GPP technology there is an enabling theory in which the differences represented as chips contain fixed components and variable components. The variable component is the propagation delay. The reported Tm difference can be calculated by subtracting the reported Tm for each base station of the pair.

For mobile stations whose location is also known typically by the time coincident report of GPS measurements an AGPS based distance difference can also be calculated. The AGPS based distance difference demonstrates how actual distances to each of the respective base stations may be subtracted out of the reported difference measurements to achieve a reference figure for each pair of base stations.

As shown at the reference calculation can be summarized in terms of meters or in accordance with some aspects can be expressed in terms of the unit of measurement resolution chips . It should be noted that since the actual geographic difference in distance to each of the respective base stations have been subtracted out of this value this reference value may be subsequently used to remove any static difference owing to cell site synchronization difference. Further this reference value is the difference expected in the event that the mobile device reporting the measurements were exactly midway between the base stations e.g. pairs . As a practical matter this value is invariant over a long period of time e.g. hours making it suitable for use in calculations for many mobile devices that do not report location information.

To further describe the functionality of location manager component is an exemplary communication system that utilizes measurements for multiple AGPS reporting mobile devices to statistically combine observed Tm differences according to an aspect. Communication system comprises a first base station a second base station and a third base station . Each base station has a known geographic location.

In some situations there might be multiple mobile devices of possible different make and model that all report similar measurements for the same set of base stations e.g. pairs and these values result in different reference values. For example there are two mobile devices identified by respective IMSI numbers that provide measurements related to first base station second base station pair. The following reported measurements results in a median Tm value of 10047 and a reference point having a location of 33.053736 degrees latitude and 96.7221115 degrees longitude 

In another example there are three mobile devices that report information related to second base station third base station pair as provided below which results in a median Tm value of 19600 and a reference point at 33.0573054 degrees latitude and 96.7299171 degrees longitude 

In a further example a median Tm value of 9552 and a reference point located at 33.0634025 degrees latitude and 96.7294725 longitude are derived from measurement reports related to third base station first base station pair as received from five different mobile devices. The measurement reports are as follows 

Location manager component calculates the median values which are retained as the reference value for the respective pairs of base stations. This process can mitigate errors associated with relying on a single mobile device that may be used to calculate reference values that are then used to determine the location of many other mobile devices having an unknown location.

In order to fully appreciate the disclosed aspects illustrates a schematic representation of liner separating hyperplanes. The circles represent mobile devices within a communication environment. A hyperplane is shown separating a first set of devices shown generally at and a second set of devices shown generally at . The hyperplane can be represented by the equation w x b 0 wherein the first set of devices can be represented by the equation w x b 0 and the second set of devices can be represented by the equation w x b

In accordance with some aspects separating hyperplanes can include creating a list of values of latitude or other geographic coordinate that divides a field of interest into many ranges of latitude values which need not be regular. For each given value of latitude a set of two or more training points and possibly base station timing differences incrementally above and below the given value of latitude are identified. Using the training points with their timing differences one difference measurement for each base station as training vectors a separating hyperplane is calculated. The separating hyperplane can be a formula that is a function of all of the timing measurement differences for all pairs of base stations in the field of interest. The formula can produce a result that is a positive number for timing differences associated with values of latitude above the specified value and a negative number for timing values below the specified value. The coefficients of the separating hyperplane can be saved in a database as a property of the selected value of latitude. A similar process can be performed for other geographic coordinates.

To use the separating hyperplane to determine locations of devices of unknown location the following example is provided. First a bounding box within which the device is expected to be based on the base stations identified in the measurement report is determined. The separating hyperplane coefficients for a particular middle value of latitude within the bounding box is retrieved. The hyperplane coefficients are applied to the measured timing differences provided by the reporting device of unknown location. Based on the positive and or negative value of the separating hyperplane a determination is made as to which region of latitude the device is located. The process continues with retrieving the separating hyperplane coefficients applying the hyperplane coefficients and so forth until no further hyperplanes are defined in the database for the region of interest.

For a particular mobile device that reports measurements to three pairs of base stations shows three dimensions and of the optimization problem. For any particular degree of latitude 33.0 degrees is shown in the figure a hyperplane may be determined that optimally separates mobile devices reporting measurements such that there are devices represented as triangles located both above and other devices represented as solid triangles below the hyperplane. These measurements correspond to devices having a geographic location whose latitude is known to be above or below the value 33.0 degrees. For example the three devices above the hyperplane have a latitude that is greater than 33.0 degrees and the three devices below the hyperplane have a latitude that is smaller than 33.0 degrees.

The hyperplane itself can be computed as the solution of a least squares optimization problem that positions the hyperplane optimally between points that are closest to the hyperplane boundary. The 3 tuple measurements that are used to calculate the hyperplane can be those points associated with mobile stations whose location is precisely known e.g. based on a GPS measurement . By extension the same set of hyperplanes can be utilized to classify non location aware mobile devices to a particular range of latitude longitude and or altitude values.

Illustrating other aspects is a block diagram showing a categorization processing component containing an analysis component and a location establisher component . In one embodiment categorization processing component receives an indication of a reported time measurement from a mobile device. In accordance with some aspects the indication of the reported time measurement report does not arrive with location information. However in accordance with some aspects the time measurement report is received with location information and categorization processing component performs an evaluation to determine the accuracy of a location model as developed by a location manager component.

Based on the received time measurements the analysis component is configured to obtain a set of hyperplanes computed by a location manager component for example. The time measurements are applied to the hyperplanes by analysis component . Location establisher component is configured to determine a location of the mobile device. For example the hyperplane can have coefficients such as the following where S through S are SVM model coefficients S1 1 S2 1 S3 1 S4 0 S5 0 S6 0 S7 0 S8 2 S9 5 S10 6

The coefficients of the hyperplane separates measurements having these dimensions and can be applied by location establisher component to classify any set of similar measurements as to whether the measurements are from a mobile device that is located above below or right at 33.0 degree latitude value. An example of classification of a SVM training vector identified as 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 2 5 6 can take the following format Classification of 1 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 2 5 6 If 0 then lat 33.0 If 0 then lat 33.0 If 

In accordance with some aspects the calculation of a specific solution to finding optimal hyperplanes including the selection and use of kernel functions is well known and readily undertaken by individuals skilled in the art of using support vector machines SVMs .

In order to categorize one or more mobile devices as a function of the point of interest wireless communications apparatus comprises a location manager component and a categorization processing component . Location manager component is configured to receive measurement reports from a multitude of mobile devices. In accordance with some aspects at least some of the measurement reports are received with AGPS information while other measurement reports do not have corresponding AGPS information. Based on the various measurement reports received location manager component is configured to create a model as to whether a particular mobile device is located within a point of interest boundary or whether the mobile device is located outside the point of interest boundary.

Based at least in part on the model created by location manager component the categorization processing component can determine whether or not a particular mobile device is near or not near a point of interest. For example illustrates a schematic representation of an environment in which communications apparatus can operate to provide categorization of devices according to a region of interest according to an aspect. The region of interest can be arbitrarily defined e.g. similar to gerrymandered congressional districts and devices can be categorized as to whether they are in the region or not in the region. Similar to the manner in which geographic coordinates e.g. latitude longitude altitude may be categorically determined categorization processing component can include an estimation component that can be configured to categorically determine if a device is near a particular point of interest and or in some defined geographical area regardless of whether latitude longitude and or altitude is calculated .

In accordance with an aspect estimation component can advantageously categorically determine whether a device is in any such very large number of regions or points each of which may be arbitrarily large or small and having any shape including having holes and or non contiguous geographical regions included. In accordance with some aspects categorization processing component can determine which devices are above below or within a particular altitude.

As illustrated a mobile device can at substantially the same time provide measurements of both its location and various other telemetry data . The telemetry data can include timing offset and power measurements which can be Tm and RSSI Received Signal Strength Indication as an example which can have properties that vary with distance from a base station .

An increase in distance separating base station and mobile device can have a specific effect on measurements provided at any given point in time. As an example the timing offset value might shift to a higher number in proportion to increased distance of separation plus some unknown fixed value . Alternatively the power measurement RSSI might decrease in proportion to a change in the same change in distance between the base station and the mobile device .

Given the expected and known degree by which these measurements from the mobile device change with the distance of separation between the cell tower and the mobile device estimation component can perform an interpolation to determine what those measurements might theoretically be if the mobile device were moved to a new position . For the theoretical position a measurement data structure can be tabulated for various points within a geographic boundary where mobile device is able to report measurements to base station .

The measurement reports may occur at various times and can be utilized to augment the precision of expected theoretical measurements for points within the boundary within reach e.g. communication range of base station . Estimation component can be configured to compute the median mean or some other statistical function of the expected measurement derived from two or more mobile devices that are reporting actual measurements. In accordance with some aspects the theoretically expected set of measurements for any point within the region or boundary may be interpolated in advance of the use of such data structures. Furthermore as time passes estimation component can be configured to statistically forecast any regular time of day and or regular seasonal variations in such expected values.

With the capability of communications apparatus to store and retrieve as needed the expected timing measurements can be retained such as in a data store for any particular point in the geography of a base station as illustrated in . Estimation component can be configured to create and save a data structure of points surrounding a particular area of interest in the data store . A boundary surrounding the area of interest divides the geography into at least two regions namely an area outside the area of interest and an area inside the area of interest .

In accordance with some aspects a data structure of measurements that fence the boundary can be created and stored. The data structure of measurements comprises a first set of measurements that are just outside the boundary and a second set of measurements that are just inside the boundary . Depending on the nature of the boundary with respect to whether the boundary is smooth or jagged a variable number of such paired boundary measurements e.g. first set of measurements and second set of measurements may be interpolated as theoretical measurements by estimation component . In accordance with some aspects these theoretical measurements can be derived by means of interpolating the actual measurements from devices that do report actual measurements. All of the theoretical measurement points thus are known to be either inside or outside the boundary of interest and are therefore classification values having known classifications.

The theoretical measurements can be utilized as a means to train a classifier so as to classify the location of mobile device reporting actual measurements but having unknown location and or classification. A similar classifier mechanism may be utilized to classify all mobile devices reporting measurements in the region as to whether such devices are inside or outside the region on interest.

By extension in accordance with some aspects data from measurements to multiple base stations can be combined to increase the precision of the classification function by means of statistically combining the classification based on multiple base station reports.

In accordance with some aspects more than one classifier can be operational such that many different regions of interest are each classified using the same or similar measurement reports from the same or similar set of reporting devices. Thus the classification mechanism may be flexibly used to classify devices in a particular region of latitude longitude and or altitude. Further the classification mechanism can be used to classify devices in a particularly odd shaped region similar to a congressional district having jagged edges that do not align with boundaries of latitude longitude and or altitude.

The machine learning and reasoning component can employ automated learning and reasoning procedures e.g. the use of explicitly and or implicitly trained statistical classifiers in connection with performing inference and or probabilistic determinations and or statistical based determinations as in accordance with one or more aspects as described herein. As used herein the term inference refers generally to the process of reasoning about or inferring states of the system environment and or mobile devices from a set of observations as captured through events reports and or data. Inference can be employed to identify a specific context or action or can generate a probability distribution over states for example. The inference can be probabilistic that is the computation of a probability distribution over states of interest based on a consideration of data and events. Inference can also refer to techniques employed for composing higher level events from a set of events and or data. Such inference results in the construction of new events or actions from a set of observed events and or stored event data whether or not the events are correlated in close temporal proximity and whether the events and data come from one or several event and data sources. Various classification schemes and or systems e.g. support vector machines neural networks logic centric production systems Bayesian belief networks fuzzy logic data fusion engines and so on can be employed in connection with performing automatic and or inferred action in connection with the disclosed aspects.

The various aspects e.g. in connection with determining a location of a mobile device ascertaining whether a mobile device is near a point of interest and so forth can employ various artificial intelligence based schemes for carrying out various aspects thereof. For example a process for determining if a mobile device is near a point of interest can be enabled through an automatic classifier system and process.

A classifier is a function that maps an input attribute vector x x1 x2 x3 x4 xn to a confidence that the input belongs to a class that is f x confidence class . Such classification can employ a probabilistic and or statistical based analysis e.g. factoring into the analysis utilities and costs to prognose or infer an action that should be employed to classify one or more mobile devices.

A support vector machine SVM is an example of a classifier that can be employed. The SVM operates by finding a hypersurface in the space of possible inputs which hypersurface attempts to split the triggering criteria from the non triggering events. Intuitively this makes the classification correct for testing data that is near but not identical to training data. Other directed and undirected model classification approaches include for example na ve Bayes Bayesian networks decision trees neural networks fuzzy logic models and probabilistic classification models providing different patterns of independence can be employed. Classification as used herein also is inclusive of statistical regression that is utilized to develop models of priority.

As will be readily appreciated from the subject specification the one or more aspects can employ classifiers that are explicitly trained e.g. through a generic training data as well as implicitly trained e.g. by observing user behavior receiving extrinsic information . For example SVM s are configured through a learning or training phase with the location manager component and or categorization processing component . Thus the classifier s can be used to automatically learn and perform a number of functions including but not limited to ascertaining location of mobile devices what devices to group together how to classify a device relationships between devices and so forth. The criteria can include but is not limited to similar measurements historical information and so forth.

In an example a mechanism to pre compute a set of SVM vectors that may be used to classify the location of the mobile device has also shown to work efficiently. In this case latitude longitude and altitude may be independently classified into discrete ranges of values consistent with the maximum expected resolution . This approach is realized by using calibration data to pre compute a linear SVM model for each range of possible values in each dimension latitude longitude altitude accounting for the maximum expected resolution in each such dimension. It should be noted that a variety of SVM kernel functions may be used to expand the number of dimensions of the problem as may be needed to effectively separate the classified measurement vectors. In either case the linear coefficients to each of the SVM models are stored as records in a database and used to quickly classify the location of mobile device measurement reports as they arrive. It should be noted that this classification operation may be conducted in a parallel computing architecture and further need not linearly sequence through the list of all applicable SVM models. A Newton bisection approach may be readily followed to hasten the search for the mobile device location according to some aspects. This approach can extend to classify altitude information for mobile devices also. In accordance with some aspects a set of SVM classifications may be used to narrow the set of bins that should be further searched for a best solution.

Additionally or alternatively an implementation scheme e.g. rule can be applied to classifying devices locating devices and so forth. It will be appreciated that the rules based implementation can automatically and or dynamically interpret a location based upon a predefined criterion. In response thereto the rule based implementation can automatically interpret and carry out functions associated with locations by employing a predefined and or programmed rule s based upon any desired criteria.

In accordance with some aspects the computing can include obtaining telemetry data e.g. at least one of a timing offset for an individual base station measurements for a pair of base stations indicator variables power measurements or combinations thereof from a plurality of mobile devices wherein the plurality of mobile devices are location aware devices. The telemetry data can be combined with the location information from the plurality of mobile devices and a subset of categorizing formulas can be computed based on the telemetry data and the location information.

According to some aspects the calculating comprises solving a least squares optimization problem that positions each hyperplane between points that are closest to a hyperplane boundary. In accordance with other aspects the computing comprises using a kernel function to map a vector of measurements received from a mobile device to a set of measurements located in a higher dimension

At a reported time difference measurement is received from the user device. The user device might be a non location aware device. However in accordance with some aspects the user device might be a location aware device and the accuracy of the retained set of hyperplanes can be tested.

At the reported time measurement is applied to the set of hyperplanes. For example the applying can include classifying the reported time measurement in a sequence of one or more classification operations that provide bounds for upper and lower limits of latitude longitude or altitude or combinations thereof.

In accordance with some aspects the applying comprises receiving a collection of timing offset measures from the user device and assigning a location value to the user device wherein the location value comprises at least one of a latitude a longitude and or an altitude.

At the location of the user device is determined as a function of applying the reported time measurement to the hyperplanes. In accordance with some aspects the determining comprises individually evaluating a latitude a longitude and an altitude of the user device. According to some aspects the determining comprises employing a support vector machine to perform various functions disclosed herein.

In accordance with some aspects the receiving comprises receiving at least one timing offset measurement from the user device and the applying comprises comparing the at least one timing offset measurement with the set of hyperplanes. In this aspect the determining comprises determining a classification of the at least one timing offset measurement based on the comparing wherein the classification provides an indication of the location of the user device. According to some aspects the disclosed aspects can also include performing an error estimate for at least one hyperplane in the set of hyperplanes.

Since some mobile device reports are accompanied by mobile device location reports for purposes of this flow chart the mobile device is capable of providing and does provide its location information. The situation that occurs if the mobile device is not capable of providing or does not provide its location information will be discussed with reference to the following flow chart.

The location information provided by the mobile device is utilized to create and or update a location model that includes calibration reference data. Thus for each pair of CellIDs measured at the reference offset difference and an expected geographic difference in distance to each CellID in the pair is calculated. For example each pair of base stations labeled with CellID and their known location is used with the known location of the mobile device to determine reference difference offsets for each pair of base stations. At the set of reference offset differences for each pair of CellIDs is updated and retained.

For the full range of latitude longitude and altitude values within the scope of CellID pairs reported at a set of SVM training vectors is ascertained and an SVM model that classifies the latitude longitude altitude for vectors having an unknown location is created. For example for the full range of latitude longitude and altitude values of interest a set of training vectors having a known classification above equal to and below each of the values of latitude longitude and altitude are determined. Given these training vectors having known classifications the support vector machine hyperplanes can be calculated. These hyperplanes can be defined by a set of coefficients e.g. SVM model coefficients for each SVM model . In accordance with some aspects the hyperplane can be calculated using one of several alternative kernel functions and solved using a least squares solution which is well known to those of skill in the art and so will not be further described here.

The hyperplanes are saved at for subsequent use. The model coefficients can be utilized to classify a mobile device wherein the classification indicates whether the mobile device is above or below each value of latitude longitude and or altitude of interest.

The flow chart ends for mobile devices whose location is accurately reported. However in accordance with some aspects an error estimate can be calculated by proceeding with the following flow chart even though the location is already known by a timely GPS report. However executing the following flow chart can provide an estimate of the location that may be readily compared to the reported GPS location thereby providing an estimate of the error if any. This error calculation can be performed for all devices or a subset thereof that report their location so as to provide statistics on the likely error of all calculations.

At for each pair of CellIDs in the reported set an offset difference value for the pair is retrieved. For each CellID pair at the reference value is subtracted from the actual measured difference value to determine the difference due to geographical placement of the unknown mobile device. Thus the reported timing differences are adjusted to values that factor out the base station synchronization differences.

Using the reference data prepared at a vector is prepared at . The vector consists of an ordered sequence of variable values which include indicator variables that describe whether or not certain pairs of base stations are reporting data. For example the prepared ordered sequence of variables can include the geographic difference value for each pair together with an indicator variable for each included pair.

At a set of stored SVM classifiers is used with the calculated vector. The vector of the ordered sequences of variables can be used as a test vector together with each SVM model that classifies vectors having an unknown location. At the latitude longitude and altitude of the mobile device are ascertained by aggregating the classifications determined at .

At the geographical boundary is examined and expected timing differences at geographical points on each side of the given boundary are computed. Thus the geographical boundary is examined to determine the set of cell tower timing measurements that are expected both within the boundary and just outside the boundary. These measurements are timing measurement differences from pairs of cell towers serving the boundary area.

At each set of expected timing measurements from all pairs of cell towers in the region are each individually categorizing as near and not near . A training data set is derived from the individual categorizations such that the training data set that brackets the boundary on all sides is computed. The training data set can be stored for later retrieval.

At coefficients of a liner model can be computed. The coefficients can be computed as a function of the input vectors. In accordance with some aspects the computation can be performed by applying a SVM algorithm to the training data. At any new data vector received is classified as near and not near as a function of the coefficients. It should be noted that the classification at skips the intermediate step of calculating geographic coordinates e.g. latitude longitude and can be readily extended to including altitude as a property of near and not near .

Optionally at a notification is sent as a function of whether the device is near or not near the point of interest. For example if the model classifier detects a timing measurement vector for which the SVM coefficients produce a positive classification of near a message can be sent to a notification distributor to distribute this new information to subscribed applications either on the mobile device itself or in some other location.

To provide further context for various aspects of the disclosed subject matter illustrates a block diagram of an embodiment of an access point e.g. base station wireless access point femtocell access point etc. that can enable and or exploit features or aspects of the disclosed subject matter.

In embodiment access point can receive and transmit signal s from and to wireless devices wireless ports wireless routers etc. through segments N is a positive integer . Segments can be internal and or external to access point and can be controlled by 1 monitor component and 2 antenna component . Further monitor component and antenna component can couple to communication platform which comprises electronic components and associated circuitry that provide for processing and manipulation of received signal s and other signal s to be transmitted.

In an aspect communication platform includes a receiver transmitter that can convert analog signals to digital signals upon reception of the analog signals and convert digital signals to analog signals upon transmission. In addition receiver transmitter can divide a single data stream into multiple parallel data streams or perform the reciprocal operation. Coupled to receiver transmitter is a multiplexer demultiplexer that facilitates manipulation of signals in time and frequency space. Electronic component can multiplex information data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM code division multiplexing CDM space division multiplexing SDM . In addition mux demux component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code known in the art e.g. Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes etc. A modulator demodulator is also a part of communication platform and can modulate information according to multiple modulation techniques such as frequency modulation amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation QAM with M a positive integer phase shift keying PSK etc.

Access point also includes a processor configured to confer at least in part functionality to substantially any electronic component in access point . In particular processor can facilitate configuration of access point via e.g. monitor component antenna component and one or more component therein. Additionally access point can include display interface which can display functions that control functionality of access point or reveal operation conditions thereof. In addition display interface can include a screen to convey information to an end user. In an aspect display interface can be an LCD Liquid Crystal Display a plasma panel a monolithic thin film based electrochromic display and so on. Moreover display interface can also include a component e.g. speaker that facilitates communication of aural indicia which can also be employed in connection with messages that convey operational instructions to an end user. Display interface can also facilitate data entry e.g. through a linked keypad or via touch gestures which can cause access point to receive external commands e.g. restart operation.

Broadband network interface facilitates connection of access point to a service provider network not shown that can comprise one or more cellular technologies e.g. 3GPP UMTS GSM etc. via backhaul link s not shown which enable incoming and outgoing data flow. Broadband network interface can be internal or external to access point and can utilize display interface for end user interaction and status information delivery.

Processor can be functionally connected to communication platform and can facilitate operations on data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing such as effecting direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times etc. Moreover processor can be functionally connected via data system or address bus to display interface and broadband network interface to confer at least in part functionality to each of such components.

In access point memory can retain location and or coverage area e.g. macro sector identifier s access list s that authorize access to wireless coverage through access point sector intelligence that can include ranking of coverage areas in the wireless environment of access point radio link quality and strength associated therewith or the like. Memory also can store data structures code instructions and program modules system or device information code sequences for scrambling spreading and pilot transmission access point configuration and so on. Processor can be coupled e.g. via a memory bus to memory in order to store and retrieve information used to operate and or confer functionality to the components platform and interface that reside within access point .

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions and or processes described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of mobile devices. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification terms such as store data store data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component and or process refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory for example can be included in memory non volatile memory see below disk storage see below and memory storage see below . Further nonvolatile memory can be included in read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

In order to provide a context for the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable environment in which the various aspects of the disclosed subject matter can be implemented. While the subject matter has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions of a computer program that runs on a computer and or computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the subject innovation also can be implemented in combination with other program modules. Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks and or implement particular abstract data types.

Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive systems can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems mini computing devices mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices e.g. PDA phone watch microprocessor based or programmable consumer or industrial electronics and the like. The illustrated aspects can also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network however some if not all aspects of the subject disclosure can be practiced on stand alone computers. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

With reference to a block diagram of a computing system operable to execute the disclosed systems and methods is illustrated in accordance with an embodiment. Computer includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . System bus couples system components including but not limited to system memory to processing unit . Processing unit can be any of various available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multiprocessor architectures also can be employed as processing unit .

System bus can be any of several types of bus structure s including a memory bus or a memory controller a peripheral bus or an external bus and or a local bus using any variety of available bus architectures including but not limited to Industrial Standard Architecture ISA Micro Channel Architecture MSA Extended ISA EISA Intelligent Drive Electronics IDE VESA Local Bus VLB Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI Card Bus Universal Serial Bus USB Advanced Graphics Port AGP Personal Computer Memory Card International Association bus PCMCIA Firewire IEEE 1194 and Small Computer Systems Interface SCSI .

System memory includes volatile memory and nonvolatile memory . A basic input output system BIOS containing routines to transfer information between elements within computer such as during start up can be stored in nonvolatile memory . By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include ROM PROM EPROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory includes RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM Rambus direct RAM RDRAM direct Rambus dynamic RAM DRDRAM and Rambus dynamic RAM RDRAM .

Computer also includes removable non removable volatile non volatile computer storage media. illustrates for example disk storage . Disk storage includes but is not limited to devices like a magnetic disk drive floppy disk drive tape drive Jaz drive Zip drive LS 100 drive flash memory card or memory stick. In addition disk storage can include storage media separately or in combination with other storage media including but not limited to an optical disk drive such as a compact disk ROM device CD ROM CD recordable drive CD R Drive CD rewritable drive CD RW Drive or a digital versatile disk ROM drive DVD ROM . To facilitate connection of the disk storage devices to system bus a removable or non removable interface is typically used such as interface .

It is to be appreciated that describes software that acts as an intermediary between users and computer resources described in suitable operating environment . Such software includes an operating system . Operating system which can be stored on disk storage acts to control and allocate resources of computer system . System applications take advantage of the management of resources by operating system through program modules and program data stored either in system memory or on disk storage . It is to be appreciated that the disclosed subject matter can be implemented with various operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands or information e.g. via interface component into computer system through input device s . Input devices include but are not limited to a pointing device such as a mouse trackball stylus touch pad keyboard microphone joystick game pad satellite dish scanner TV tuner card digital camera digital video camera web camera and the like. These and other input devices connect to processing unit through system bus via interface port s . Interface port s include for example a serial port a parallel port a game port and a universal serial bus USB . Output device s use some of the same type of ports as input device s .

Thus for example a USB port can be used to provide input to computer and to output information from computer to an output device . Output adapter is provided to illustrate that there are some output devices like monitors speakers and printers among other output devices which use special adapters. Output adapters include by way of illustration and not limitation video and sound cards that provide means of connection between output device and system bus . It should be noted that other devices and or systems of devices provide both input and output capabilities such as remote computer s .

Computer can operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as remote computer s . Remote computer s can be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a workstation a microprocessor based appliance a peer device or other common network node and the like and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to computer .

For purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated with remote computer s . Remote computer s is logically connected to computer through a network interface and then physically connected via communication connection . Network interface encompasses wire and or wireless communication networks such as local area networks LAN and wide area networks WAN . LAN technologies include Fiber Distributed Data Interface FDDI Copper Distributed Data Interface CDDI Ethernet Token Ring and the like. WAN technologies include but are not limited to point to point links circuit switching networks like Integrated Services Digital Networks ISDN and variations thereon packet switching networks and Digital Subscriber Lines DSL .

Communication connection s refer s to hardware software employed to connect network interface to bus . While communication connection is shown for illustrative clarity inside computer it can also be external to computer . The hardware software for connection to network interface can include for example internal and external technologies such as modems including regular telephone grade modems cable modems and DSL modems ISDN adapters and Ethernet cards.

It is to be noted that aspects features or advantages of the subject innovation described in the subject specification can be exploited in substantially any communication technology. For example 4G technologies Wi Fi WiMAX Enhanced GPRS 3GPP LTE 3GPP2 UMB 3GPP UMTS HSPA HSDPA HSUPA GERAN UTRAN LTE Advanced. Additionally substantially all aspects disclosed herein can be exploited in legacy telecommunication technologies e.g. GSM. In addition mobile as well non mobile networks e.g. Internet data service network such as IPTV can exploit aspect or features described herein.

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification and annexed drawings terms such as store data store data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and dire Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

Various aspects or features described herein can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects disclosed in the subject specification can also be implemented through program modules stored in a memory and executed by a processor or other combination of hardware and software or hardware and firmware.

Computing devices typically include a variety of media which can include computer readable storage media or communications media which two terms are used herein differently from one another as follows.

Computer readable storage media can be any available storage media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable storage media can be implemented in connection with any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions program modules structured data or unstructured data. Computer readable storage media can include but are not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or other tangible and or non transitory media which can be used to store desired information. Computer readable storage media can be accessed by one or more local or remote computing devices e.g. via access requests queries or other data retrieval protocols for a variety of operations with respect to the information stored by the medium.

Communications media typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other structured or unstructured data in a data signal such as a modulated data signal e.g. a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery or transport media. The term modulated data signal or signals refers to a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in one or more signals. By way of example and not limitation communication media include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media.

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the subject innovation. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methods for purposes of describing the subject innovation but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

As used in this application the terms component system and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the entity can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server or network controller and the server or network controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that confers at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

