---

title: Fermentation and chemical treatment of pulp and paper mill sludge
abstract: A method of chemically treating partially de-ashed pulp and/or paper mill sludge to obtain products of value comprising taking a sample of primary sludge from a Kraft paper mill process, partially de-ashing the primary sludge by physical means, and further treating the primary sludge to obtain the products of value, including further treating the resulting sludge and using the resulting sludge as a substrate to produce cellulase in an efficient manner using the resulting sludge as the only carbon source and mixtures of inorganic salts as the primary nitrogen source, and including further treating the resulting sludge and using the resulting sludge to produce ethanol.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08900457&OS=08900457&RS=08900457
owner: Auburn University
number: 08900457
owner_city: Auburn
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100820
---
This application is a U.S. national counterpart application of PCT International Application Serial No. PCT US2010 046161 filed Aug. 20 2010 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 235 877 having a filing date of 21 Aug. 2009 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 235 894 having a filing date of 21 Aug. 2009 all of which are incorporated herein in their entireties by this reference.

This invention was made with government support under grant number DE FG36 07G07G01702 awarded by the Department of Energy and subaward number S 00000307. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention generally is in the field of the chemical treatment of pulp and paper mill sludge to recover chemical values. The present invention more specifically is in the field of the bioconversion of pulp and paper mill sludge into value added products. The present invention also more specifically is in the field of the production of cellulase enzymes from delignified lignocellulosic materials found in pulp and paper mill waste streams. The present invention further more specifically is in the field of ethanol production from pulp and paper mill waste streams.

Pulp and paper mill sludge is a solid waste material generated from pulping and paper making operations. Because of high glucan content and its well dispersed structure pulp and paper mill sludge is well suited for bioconversion into value added products. Pulp and paper mill sludge also has high ash content originated from inorganic additives used in pulp and paper making processes which causes hindrance to bioconversion.

Cellulase enzyme is one of the major cost factors in production of cellulosic ethanol. For this reason much of the recent research efforts on cellulosic ethanol have been devoted to cellulase enzymes such as on cellulase producing microorganisms targeting efficient production of cellulase enzymes and improving the characteristics of the enzymes on the molecular level. Also related to cellulase enzyme is pretreatment research the goal of which is to reduce the enzyme loading. These are important and meaningful tasks in the research of cellulosic ethanol. There is yet another important issue pertaining to cellulase production namely the feedstock. From the dearth of currently available literature information very little attention is being paid to this issue at the moment. Cellulases are currently produced commercially but in relatively small scale because of its limited market. With the current market value of cellulase the cost of feedstock is of minor concern. However this will no longer be the case in the world of cellulosic ethanol where low cost feedstock is required for production of cellulase. In an economic sense it is as important as enzyme improvement or devising an efficient pretreatment.

Accordingly there is a need for improved methods for the chemical treatment of pulp and paper mill sludge to recover chemical values. There also is a need for methods for the bioconversion of pulp and paper mill sludge into value added products. There additionally is a need for methods for the production of cellulose enzymes from delignified lignocellulosic materials found in pulp and paper mill waste streams. There further is a need for methods for ethanol production from pulp and paper mill waste streams. It is to these needs among others that this invention is directed.

Briefly the present invention is a method of treating pulp and or paper mill sludge to obtain products of value. A first method of the present invention is a method of treating pulp or paper mill sludge comprising the steps of 

A second method of the present invention is a method of treating pulp and or paper mill sludge comprising the steps of 

A third method of the present invention combines the first and second methods above and is a method of treating pulp and or paper mill sludge comprising the steps of 

The present invention uses sludge in the waste stream from pulp and or paper mills as the initial input for producing products of value such as to enhance the production of cellulase enzymes and to produce ethanol. An illustrative sludge suitable for use in the present invention is sludge from Kraft paper mills. Sludge from Kraft paper mills has organic contents essentially the same as those of bleached pulp. However it has a large amount of inorganic components known as ash mixed in during the paper making process. The composition of primary sludge from Kraft paper mills is shown in Table 1. The ash is composed of calcium carbonate the largest component and other minerals. Sludge from other pulp and paper mills also can be suitable for use in the present invention.

Cellulase enzymes can be produced from delignified lignocellulosic materials such as refined cellulose pretreated agricultural residues and waste paper by aerobic fermentation using microorganisms such as . The yield of cellulase enzyme varies widely depending on the composition and other characteristics of the substrate. Pulp and paper mill sludge when partially de ashed by physical means becomes an acceptable substrate for the production of cellulase enzyme. However the yield of cellulase enzyme from pulp or paper mill sludge is only about one third of that obtainable from pure cellulose.

One illustrative aspect of the method of the present invention is a method of chemically treating partially de ashed pulp mill sludge that increases the efficiency of cellulase enzyme production to that of pure cellulose and comprises the following illustrative steps 

The treated sludge then can be used as a substrate for cellulase enzyme production. Rut C 30 ATCC 56765 is one microorganism that can be used for producing the cellulase enzymes. The sludge is loaded in the bioreactor at a concentration of about 2.5 g sludge L. The enzyme production is performed in a 3 L fermenter with a working volume of 2 L. The temperature pH agitation aeration and dissolved Ocontent are controlled at the following fixed levels 28 C. pH at 3.5 by the addition of NHOH and dissolved oxygen at 25 of saturation by aeration and agitation.

The treated sludge is the only carbon source for the cellulase enzyme production and predominantly inorganic nutrients are used as the nitrogen source for this bioprocess. The cellulase enzyme produced from the de ashed sludge exhibits cellulase activity of 8 FPU mL close to that obtainable from pure cellulosic substrates. The yield of cellulase enzyme is 307 FPU g glucan of de ached sludge and the specific activity is 8.0 FPU mg protein. In activity tests conducted against the corn stover and a cellulose the xylanase activity is higher than that of a commercial cellulase. Relatively high xylan content in the sludge appears to induce high xylanase production. Simultaneous saccharification and fermentation SSF is performed using untreated sludge as the feedstock for ethanol production using and the cellulase produced in house from the sludge. With 6 w v glucan feed ethanol yield of 72 of theoretical maximum and 24.4 g L ethanol concentration is achieved. These results are identical to those of the SSF using commercial cellulases.

A feature of this method is to produce cellulases from pulp and or paper mill sludge and to assess the efficiency of enzyme production determine the properties of the enzyme and compare them with commercial cellulase where possible. Another feature of this method is to evaluate the cellulase from pulp and or paper mill sludge by subjecting it to hydrolysis of common feedstocks and saccharification and fermentation SSF of the pulp or paper mill sludge. As mentioned above the cellulase enzyme produced according to the method of the present invention compares favorably with commercial cellulases.

Another illustrative aspect of the method of the present invention is a method for the co fermentation to ethanol of prehydrolysates and the primary sludge from a Kraft paper mill and comprises the following steps 

In this method prehydrolysate in place of water is added into the bioreactor along with the sludge and there is a net increase of total agar concentration in the bioreactor above that of the base case. Therefore the product concentration is also increased reducing the cost of ethanol distillation. The results of the SSF test verifies that this invention increases the concentration of ethanol by as much as 28 over controls.

A feature of this method is to provide for fuel ethanol production as a supplementary unit in pulp and paper mills. This process scheme also can be applied to other fermentation processes where water addition is required to disperse the solid feedstock such as co fermentation of sugarcane bagasse and cane sugar and co fermentation of corn stover and cheese whey.

Yet another illustrative aspect of the present invention combines the two aspects mentioned above for producing a cellulase for use as the hydrolytic enzyme for further treating paper or pulp mill sludge in a bioconversion process for producing chemical values such as ethanol.

A representative primary sludge from a Kraft paper mill has the composition of 44.5 glucan 9.9 xylan 8.1 lignin 36.0 ash and 2.0 unaccounted for acetyl group and protein all by weight. Of the 36 total ash 26 is acid soluble ash and the balance 10 is acid insoluble ash. The acid soluble ash is mainly CaCO and the acid insoluble ash is mainly TiOand clay 

These methods and features and other methods features and advantages of the present invention will become more apparent to those of ordinary skill in the relevant art when the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments is read in conjunction with the appended figures.

Generally the present invention is a method of chemically treating partially de ashed pulp and or paper mill sludge also referred to herein as pulp mill sludge paper mill sludge and sludge and with pulp mill and paper mill being used interchangeably to obtain products of value comprising the steps of taking a sample of primary sludge from a Kraft paper mill process partially de ashing the primary sludge by physical means and further treating the primary sludge to obtain the products of value. Representative products of value include cellulase enzymes and ethanol.

Preferred embodiments of the present invention are or are based on the following three illustrative methods 

Pulp mill sludge is used as the feedstock for cellulase enzymes because of its zero negative cost. The pulp and paper industry in the US generates 4 5 million tons of sludge per year Ronneberg D. and Naik T. R. www.eere.energy.gov industry forest pdfs res solids2007.pdf 2007 . The quantity of sludge is large enough to meet the total cellulase enzyme need for the entire cellulosic ethanol industry in the US for the foreseeable future. At the present time most of the sludge is disposed to landfill or incinerated a significant financial burden to the industry.

Paper mill sludge has characteristics suitable for conversion to value added products. Kraft paper mill sludge in particular has much higher carbohydrate and lower lignin than natural lignocellulosic substrates Duff S. J. et al. Can. J. Chem. Eng. 72 1013 1020 1994 Fan Z. L. et al. Bioprocess Biosyst. Eng. 30 27 34 2007 Fan Z. et al. Bioprocess Biosyst Eng. 30 1 35 45 2006 . The organic portion of the sludge has a chemical composition very similar to that of commercial grade pulp. It is also important to note that the cost of the carbon source is a major cost item in the production of cellulases Ruy D. et al. Enzyme Microb. Technol. 2 91 102 1980 . Physically paper mill sludge is much smaller in size than commercial pulp and has a well dispersed structure and high surface area. It has been proven to be highly efficient for bioconversion to ethanol Lynd L. R. Appl. Biochem. Biotechnol. 24 25 695 7196 1990 . These features make it possible to use it as a bioconversion feedstock without pretreatment which is a significant economic benefit.

A number of low cost lignocellulosic substrates have been investigated as a feedstock for cellulase production Chen S. et al. Process Biochem. 26 93 100 1991 Shin C. S. et al. Appl. Biochem. Biotechnol. 84 86 237 245 2000 Juhasz T. et al. Process Biochem. 40 3519 3525 2005 Lo C. M. et al. Appl. Biochem. Biotechnol. 121 124 561 573 2005 Bigelow M. et al. Appl. Biochem. Biotechnol. 98 100 921 934 2002 Maheshwari D. K. et al. Carbohydrate Polymers. 23 161 163 1994 . They include corn stover wheat straw bagasse sawdust and municipal solid wastes. These studies collectively indicate that these substrates even after substantial pretreatment are inferior to pure cellulosic materials as raw material for cellulase production generally giving low cellulase titer.

Literature information on using paper mill sludge as a source for cellulase production is scarce. Maheshwari reported on paper mill waste as a substrate for cellulase production using mixed cultures of QM 9123 and Maheshwari D. K. et al. Carbohydrate Polymers. 23 161 163 1994 . This study however did not give enough information to assess the properties of the cellulase produced from the sludge.

The paper mill sludge was primary sludge supplied by Boise Paper Jackson Ala. US. The sludge was a waste discharged from the paper machine and the Kraft digester. The primary sludge had the composition of 44.5 glucan 9.9 xylan 8.7 lignin 36.0 ash 2.0 unaccounted for acetyl group and protein all by weight. The total ash content in the primary sludge was 36 of which 26 is acid soluble ash and the balance 10 is acid insoluble ash. Based on the Boise Paper making process and the analysis data acid soluble ash is mainly CaCO and acid insoluble ash is mainly TiOand clay. The collection was made from the wastewater treatment unit. The sludge slurry was separated by a centrifugal cleaner Laboratory centrifuge LE CEPA Germany into a fiber rich portion which is carried upward by the current and an ash rich portion which is carried downward by the current. The upward stream was returned three times to the Centrifugal cleaner to get Sludge 1. Sludge 1 was returned to the air Centrifugal cleaner three times to get Sludge 2 to achieve a high degree of mechanical de ashing. Sludge 2 was further treated with HSOuntil all of the CaCOin the ash of the sludge was transformed into CaSO which was water washed to get Sludge 3. Sludge 3 was treated with 1 N NaOH to bring the pH of the sludge to neutral to get Sludge 4.

Cellulase enzyme Spezyme CP Lot No. 301 00348 257 was a gift from Genencor Danisco Palo Alto Calif. The activity of Spezyme CP as determined by NREL was 59 FPU mL. The activity of glucosidase Novozyme 188 Novo Inc. Sigma Cat. No. C 6150 was 750 CBU mL.

A seed culture of D5A for SSF was prepared by inoculating the YPD flask with one loop of D5A on a Petri dish. The yeast was incubated for 12 hours in a rotary incubator shaker at 36 C. and 130 rpm. At the time of transfer to an SSF flask the optical density O.D. of the inoculum was measured to keep a starting O.D. of 0.5.

Pre cultivation was carried out in a 300 mL Erlenmeyer flask on medium containing 2 g L KHPO 1.4 g L NH SO 0.3 g L MgSO 0.005 g L FeSO 0.075 g L MnSO 0.0015 g L ZnSO 0.002 g L CoCL 0.3 g L CaCL 0.3 g L urea 0.015 g L Tween 80 0.1 g L peptone 5 g L glucose 10 g L Solka Floc 200 International Fiber Corporation . The composition of the production medium for cellulase was 2 g L KHPO 1.4 g L NH SO 0.3 g L MgSO 0.005 g L FeSO 0.075 g L MnSO 0.0015 g L ZnSO 0.002 g L CoCL 0.3 g L CaCL 0.3 g L urea 0.015 g L Tween 80 0.1 g L peptone 2.5 g L solid sludge.

A pre culture containing 100 mL of medium in a 300 mL Erlenmeyer flask was inoculated with 100 L of spore suspension and incubated at 28 C. on a rotary shaker at 180 rpm. After two days of pre cultivation a 10 inoculum from the pre culture was added to the production medium to initiate the cellulase production. No external inducers were used in pre culture or cellulase production stage. The enzyme production experiments were performed in a 3 L fermenter Bioflo III 3000 Fermentor New Brunswick Scientific New Jersey US with an operating volume of 2 L. Temperature pH agitation aeration and dissolved Owere controlled at fixed desired level as follows 28 C. pH 3.5 by addition of NHOH dissolved oxygen at 25 of saturation by aeration and agitation rpm.

The filter paper activity was determined according to the method of International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry IUPAC . 3 5 dinitrosalicylic acid DNS method Miller G. L. Anal. Chem. 31 426 428 1959 was used to estimate the reducing sugar released in 60 min from a mixture of 0.5 mL appropriate diluted enzyme solution 1 mL 0.1 M acetate buffer pH 4.8 and 50 mg Whatman No. 1 filter paper incubated at 50 C. One filter paper unit FPU was defined as the amount of enzyme that releases 1 tmol glucose per min based on 2 mg glucose released in 60 min according to the NREL procedure NREL Laboratory Analytical Procedure National Renewable Energy Laboratory Golden Colo. available from www.nrel.govlbiomass analytical.procedures.html 2008 . Activities were reported as FPU mL. Carboxymethylcellulase CMCase endoglucanase activity was determined by measuring the release of reducing sugars from 1 carboxymethylcellulose Sigma at 50 C. and pH 4.8 0.1 M acetate buffer for 10 min Wood T. M. et al. Meth. Enzymol. 160 87 112 1988 . Xylanase activity was determined by the reducing sugar released from a 1 birchwood xylan Sigma solution at 50 C. for 5 min Bailey M. J. et al. J. Biotechnol. 23 257 270 1992 . One unit of activity was defined as the amount of enzyme that released either 1 pmol of glucose or xylose as reducing sugar equivalents per min.

 Glucosidase activity were determined by measuring the release of nitrophenol from 4 nitrophenyl D glucopyranoside Sigma for 15 min at 50 C. and pH 4.8 0.05 M acetate buffer Hagerdal B. et al. Biotechnol Bioeng. 21 3 345 55 1979 . The reaction was stopped by the addition of 1 M NaCO and the absorbance was read at 410 nm from a nitrophenol standard curve. One unit of activity was defined as the amount of enzyme that released 1 pmol of 4 nitrophenol per min.

Extracellular protein was assayed according to Bradford s method Bradford M. M. Anal. Biochem. 72 248 254 1976 using bovine serum albumin as the standard. The compositional analysis of sludge samples were conducted according to the NREL analytical procedure. The sugar contents in the hydrolysates were analyzed by HPLC equipped with RI detector using BioRad Aminex HPX 87P column at 85 C. The mobile phase was HPLC grade water the flow rate was 0.55 mL min. Acid soluble lignin wt. and ash content were determined by the NREL analytical procedure.

The enzymatic digestibility tests were carried out in 250 ml Erlenmeyer flasks with total liquid volumes of 100 ml according to the NREL analytical procedure. The conditions of enzymatic digestibility tests were 50 C. and pH 4.8 0.05 M sodium citrate buffer . Two different substrates cellulose Sigma C 8002 Lot 114K0244 and pretreated corn stover from NREL treated with 1.4 HSOand heated to 190 C. by direct steam injection for 10 min followed by explosive decompression at the NREL PDU were tested for enzymatic hydrolysis respectively. The dilute acid treated corn stover had the composition of 59.7 glucan 2.8 xylan 1.2 other sugars 26.9 Mason lignin 1.9 acid soluble lignin 4.6 ash 2.3 wt acetyl. Sigma cellulose had a composition of 76 glucan 20 xylan 4 wt. unaccounted for lignin acetyl group ash and protein . The initial glucan concentration was 3 or 6 w v . Enzyme loadings were 5 and 15 FPU g glucan. Spezyme CP Genencor Danisco or the cellulase produced herein from sludge were used with supplementation of 10 and 30 CBU g glucan of glucosidase Novozyme 188 for the respective cellulase loadings. Samples were taken periodically and analyzed for glucose xylose and cellobiose using HPLC. The glucan digestibility was defined as the percentage of actual glucose and cellobiose released over theoretical maximum.

SSF experiments were carried out at 36 C. in 250 mL Erlenmeyer flasks according to the NREL analytical procedure. Each SSF flask with working volume of 100 mL was loaded with 6 w v glucan of untreated primary sludge 1 yeast extract and 2 peptone. The flasks were autoclaved and cooled. The flasks were then aseptically inoculated with 10 mL of yeast suspension which was grown for 12 hours at 36 C. and 130 rpm in the Yeast extract Peptone Dextrose YPD medium. The reaction was then initiated by addition of enzyme Spezyme CP Genencor Lot No. 301 00348 257 or the cellulase produced herein from sludge. The enzyme loading was 15 FPU of cellulase supplemented with 30 CBU of glucosidase g glucan. Samples were taken aseptically over the course of 5 days and analyzed for ethanol by HPLC using a BioRad Aminex HPX 87H.

Pulp and paper mills produce various types and amount of sludge depending on their raw material process and final product. The composition of sludge varies widely depending on the sources. The sludge used herein was the primary sludge generated from a Kraft paper mill. Table 1 presents the composition of the sludge. After two stages of mechanical de ashing the ash content was reduced to 11.4 .

The composition analysis of the primary sludge indicates that the lignin content is much lower than pretreated lignocellulosic feedstocks. On the one hand the low lignin content of the sludge is a highly desirable feature as a substrate for that is known to show low viability when it is grown with a substrate containing high non glucan impurities. On the other hand high ash content in the sludge is a deterrent to the growth of this microorganism and a strong inhibitor to cellulase enzyme production. Inorganic residues accumulated from various stages of the paper making process can give negative effects on the cellulase production. High ash content also causes additional problems in the bioconversion process in general even if it is to be used as a feedstock for other value added products such as ethanol. It can reduce the enzyme efficiency and limit the solid loading which will lower the product concentration. In initial testing use of untreated sludge as the carbon substrate did not show any growth in the fermentation medium described earlier. Ash and other components in the sludge greatly inhibit the cell growth and most likely the cellulase production as well. In order to utilize it effectively it was necessary to remove ash from the carbohydrates. To achieve this primary paper sludge slurry was de ashed in two stages as described previously Sludge 1 Sludge 2 . The composition of Sludge 1 is shown as in Table 1. The ash content of Sludge 1 was decreased to 21.8 but cellulase activity measured for the culture broth in 3 L fermenter was still poor data not shown . The mycelium grew poorly in the sludge medium even after proper adjustment of the initial pH.

Sludge 1 was then further de ashed by putting it to the Centrifugal cleaner three times to get Sludge 2 in which the ash content was reduced to 11.4 Table 1 . In the ensuing cellulase production experiment using Sludge 2 a 25 hr lag phase was observed before cellulase activity was detected. With an initial substrate concentration of 2.5 w v glucan of Sludge 2 the maximum cellulase titer of 1.7 FPU mL was achieved after 3 days . Increase of the substrate concentration Sludge 2 from 2.5 to 3.5 glucan did not show any improvement of cellulase titer. Although Sludge 2 had high glucan content and relatively low ash and lignin it was not effective in cellulase production. The ash content in Sludge 2 somehow inhibited cellulase production. The ash contains mostly inorganic substances including CaCO TiO and clay which are water insoluble and presumably inert. How these inorganic substances interfere with the microbial reaction is unclear. Interference with oxygen transfer into the microorganism may be one of the factors hampering cellulase production in which is a highly aerobic process.

In an effort to enhance the cellulase production further treatment of Sludge 2 was attempted. Sludge 2 was leached with 1 N sulfuric acid until most of CaCOin the ash was converted to CaSOby the reaction of HSO CaCO CaSO HO CO. CaSOhas higher solubility in water than CaCO. The sludge was water washed to remove CaSOcreating Sludge 3. As shown in Table 2 the ash content in Sludge 3 was reduced to 4.7 . Cellulase production from Sludge 3 was substantially better than the previous runs . The cellulase production commenced within 24 hr indicating that the lag phase was shortened. Better substrate uptake and cell growth were also noticeable. The cellulase production was improved to attain the filter paper activity of 3.2 FPU mL and volumetric productivity of 37.5 FPU L h over a 96 hr period .

Seeking further improvement of cellulase production Sludge 3 was treated with 1 w v NaOH resulting Sludge 4. By this treatment the ash decreased to 3.8 and glucan and total carbohydrate was increased to 74.5 and 89.5 resembling the composition of bleached Kraft pulp. These successive treatments presumably have removed most of the inhibitory chemicals that are harmful to the cellulase production. In the ensuing experiment Sludge 4 was used at the level of 3.5 glucan w v . The strain grew well and produced cellulase titer much higher than the previous runs. The yield of cellulase enzyme and volumetric productivity reached 307 FPU g of cellulose and 60.6 FPU L h respectively. The specific filter paper activity was 8 FPU mg protein in broth. The protein based specific activity is much higher than those observed with commercial cellulases. It is probably because inorganic salts were used herein as the primary nitrogen source therefore background protein was very low in the broth. Table 3 shows the activities of cellulolytic and hemicellulolytic enzymes in the fermentation broth. The cellulase titers volumetric productivities of the Sludge 4 run are summarized in Table 4.

As shown in Table 4 all aspects of cellulase enzyme production were far superior for Sludge 4 to other sludges. The drastic difference between Sludge 3 and Sludge 4 was surprising because composition wise there is little difference between them Table 2 . There is no clear explanation for this at this time. Sludge 3 may contain a small amount of NaOH washable impurities that somehow strongly interfere with cellulase production. The titer of the cellulase produced from Sludge 4 named as AU S4 enzyme hereafter was 8.0 FPU mL which is comparable to those reported for cellulases produced from high grade commercial cellulose including Solka Floc Velkovska S. et al. J. Biotechnol. 54 83 94 1997 Domingues F. C. et al. Enzyme Microb. Technol. 26 394 401 2000 .

The specific activity of AU S4 was 8.0 FPU mg protein. This value was 5 10 times higher than reported specific activity of commercial cellulases. These numbers however do not necessarily reflect the molecular activities of the respective enzymes. It may have more to do with the fact that some of the commercial enzymes contain non enzyme proteins mixed in as a nutrient during fermentation. In production of AU S4 nitrogen sources were mostly inorganic salts therefore only the enzymes are counted as protein. The titer and the specific activity of AU S4 are high enough to be used without further concentration of the broth if it is to be used on site.

Yield is also a very important cost factor in cellulase production. In production of AU S4 the yield in terms of activity was 307 FPU g cellulose in Sludge 4. Translating it into practical terms one ton of glucan in the sludge can produce cellulase enzyme that can hydrolyze 20 tons of cellulose in lignocellulosic feedstock calculation basis 15 FPU g glucan . A typical pulp mill produces 100 dry MT of sludges day which is sufficient to support several commercial scale cellulosic ethanol plants.

Performance test was conducted for the AU S4 enzyme using two different substrates corn stover pretreated by dilute acid and Sigma cellulose. The same hydrolysis test was also done for Spezyme CP Genencor Lot No. 301 00348 257 for comparison purposes. Two different levels of glucan loadings 3 and 6 glucan w v and two levels of enzyme loadings 5 FPU and 15 FPU g glucan were applied. The enzymes were supplemented with glucosidase Novozyme 188 at the ratio of 2 CBU per FPU. The hydrolysis profiles for pretreated corn stover are shown in .

In side by side comparison of AU S4 and Spezyme CP the yield and the glucose profile were found to be almost identical at high enzyme loading of 15 FPU g glucan. The yield with high glucan loading was lower than with low glucan loading a phenomenon commonly observed in enzymatic hydrolysis of cellulose. With low enzyme loading of 5 FPU g glucan Spezyme CP has shown slightly higher yield than AU S4 . The difference was more discernible 3 with 3 glucan loading than high 6 glucan loading . As the enzymes were supplemented with glucosidase the difference in gross activity indicates that there is a difference in endo and exo glucanase activities between the two enzymes.

The same comparison tests were repeated using cellulose as the substrate. The results were significantly different from the previous test as indicated in . In all four cases high and low enzyme loading and glucan loading AU S4 has shown higher overall glucose yield than Spezyme CP. The difference is more discernible with high enzyme loading 15 FPU g glucan . The 72 hr yields were as follows 85.82 3 glucan loading and 86.81 6 glucan loading for AU S4 and 79.11 3 glucan loading 78.53 6 glucan loading for Spezyme CP. Spezyme CP however has shown higher initial activity especially with low enzyme loading 5 FPU g glucan .

The major difference between the two substrates is in the xylan content 2.8 in acid treated corn stover vs. 20 xylan in a cellulose. It is speculated that the difference in yield has to do with the xylanase activity. The xylan data therefore was extracted from the same experiments to compare the xylanase activity of the two enzymes. Xylan digestibility profiles for the two enzymes are shown in . The results confirm that AU S4 has significantly higher xylanase activity than Spezyme CP. High xylanase activity of AU S4 appears to be related with the fact that Sludge 4 has relatively high xylan 15 that may have acted as an effective inducer for xylanase production by . It is well known that removal of hemicellulose increases the enzyme accessibility to cellulose consequently increases the glucan digestibility Gupta R. et al. Appl. Biochem. Biotechnol. 148 1 3 59 70 2008 . These findings reaffirm hat the high overall glucan yield observed with AU S4 in hydrolysis of a cellulose was due to its high xylanase activity.

The AU S4 was further tested for its performance putting it through an SSF test using the enzyme and yeast simultaneously as described previously. In this test untreated paper sludge was used. A comparison test was also made with Spezyme CP. The results of indicate that the there is no significant difference between the two enzymes in their performance. For both enzymes the 72 hr ethanol yield based on glucan was 72 and the ethanol concentration was 24.4 g L. These are acceptable performance indexes in ethanol production by SSF. Unlike cellulase production by ash in the sludge was not inhibitory to ethanol production by

Using the present invention Kraft paper mill sludge is a feedstock amenable for bioconversion to cellulase enzymes by Rut C 30. For efficient production of cellulase the ash content of the sludge should to be reduced to less than 4 . One method to achieve this is centrifugal separation followed by successive chemical treatments by sulfuric acid and NaOH by 

a Using a sample of primary sludge from a Kraft paper mill having the composition of 44.5 glucan 9.9 xylan 8.1 lignin 36.0 ash and 2.0 unaccounted for acetyl group and protein all by weight. Of the 36 total ash 26 is acid soluble ash and the balance 10 is acid insoluble ash. The acid soluble ash is mainly CaCO and the acid insoluble ash is mainly TiOand clay b The primary sludge is partially de ashed by physical means such as for example water washing on a screen or continuous centrifugation to remove about 80 of the total ash Sludge 2 c Sludge 2 is further treated with HSOuntil all off the CaCOin the ash is converted into CaSO which is then washed off with water Sludge 3 and d Sludge 3 is treated with 1 N NaOH to bring the pH of the sludge to a neutral point Sludge 4 .

The sludge thus treated and the enzyme produced from it are referred to as Sludge 4 and AU S4 respectively. can produce cellulase in an efficient manner using Sludge 4 as the only carbon source and mixtures of inorganic salts as the primary nitrogen source. The cellulase production yield of 307 FPU g glucan of sludge and productivity of 60.6 FPU L hr are achievable from Sludge 4. The titer of enzyme is 8.0 FPU mL which is comparable to those reported in the literature for cellulases produced from pure cellulosic substrates. The protein based specific activity of AU S4 is much higher than that of commercial cellulases. The main reason is that AU S4 is produced using inorganic salts as the main nitrogen source therefore the amount of background protein was very low in the broth. On the basis of same FPU AU S4 has slightly lower glucanase activity but higher xylanase activity than Spezyme CP. In the SSF test using partially de ashed Kraft sludge as the substrate no difference was found between AU S4 and Spezyme CP in their performance attaining identical ethanol profiles.

Illustrative results of the present invention using are shown in the Tables and Figures. The cellulase enzyme production profiles for Sludge 2 Sludge 3 and Sludge 4 are shown in . The cellulase enzyme yield productivity and titer are shown in Table 4 for these three runs. The level of cellulase enzyme titer obtained from Sludge 4 is similar to that of pure cellulose see . It is important to note that there is a vast difference in the enzyme production between Sludge 3 and Sludge 4 see although little difference is seen in the composition of these two sludges see Table 2 . The elemental analysis data of the sludges indicate that most of the aluminum in Sludge 3 is removed by NaOH treatment. It is speculated that aluminum ion Al is inhibiting cellulase production by . The method of the present invention effectively removes aluminum ion from the sludge. Activities of cellulase enzyme produced from Sludge 4 are shown in Table 3. The specific additives are comparable to those of commercial cellulases Spezyme CP of Genencor Danisco Cellulast of Novozyme .

Most of the hemicellulose fraction of pulp mill feedstock pine or hardwood is released into black liquor during pulping process and is used as a fuel for generation of steam and electricity. It is technically feasible to recover this fraction of carbohydrate and enhance its value by converting it into value added products. In the scheme of this invention hemicellulose is selectively converted to soluble sugars termed as prehydrolysate treating it by acid catalyst. It is done in a way that the cellulosic faction of the feed is not altered therefore the quality of the pulp produced from it is unaffected by prehydrolysis.

The sugars produced from prehydrolysis are mixtures of pentose hexose and their oligomers. The present invention allows for the recovery of the sugars in the range of 12 15 of the initial pulp feedstock in weight. Bioconversion of these sugars can produce 18 22 gallons of ethanol per dry metric ton MT of pulp feedstock. For example for a pulp mill with feed capacity of 1000 dry MT day 18 000 22 000 gallons of ethanol can be produced as a byproduct. This is in addition to 7 000 gallons of ethanol day that can be produced from pulp mill sludge.

The hydrolysate obtained by acid treatment of wood has a total sugar concentration below 5 wt. . If it is used as a fermentation substrate the ethanol concentration is less than 2.5 which is far below the level acceptable as distillation feed. A main feature of this invention is to use a mixture of prehydrolysate and pulp mill sludge as the fermentation feed as a means to increase the product concentration. Paper mill sludge is one of the most attractive feedstocks for production of cellulosic ethanol. In conversion of paper mill sludge by simultaneous saccharification and fermentation SSF with fed batch operation ethanol with 5 6 concentration can be obtained. In bioconversion of the sludge a certain amount of water is added to attain fluidity required for SSF operation. In this invention prehydrolysate in place of water is added into the bioreactor along with the sludge resulting in a net increase of total agar concentration in the bioreactor above that of the base case. Therefore the product concentration is also increased reducing the cost of ethanol distillation.

The prehydrolysates produced from acid treatment of wood also contain toxins primarily lignin and sugar degradation products that strongly inhibit microbial action. The prehydrolysate therefore has to be detoxified for efficient conversion to ethanol.

Prehydrolysate obtained from pulp feedstock is treated with calcium oxide CaO to raise the pH toll. An aqueous solution of hydrogen peroxide HO is added to the hydrolysate until the total HOconcentration in the hydrolysate becomes 1 wt. . The pH is adjusted to 4 5 which is the optimum level for the subsequent bioconversion process. These procedures can be done at temperatures ranging from room temperature to 100 C. The treatment times are adjusted according to the temperature.

Paper mill sludge is partially de ashed by physical method to reduce the ash level to 15 wt. or less. Suitable de ashing processes include continuous centrifugation air floatation or other solid liquid separation methods. The sludge then is dehydrated by filter press or equivalent method to approximately 50 moisture level. The sludge and the detoxified prehydrolysate are mixed into a bioreactor. The amount of each is adjusted such that the solid liquid ratio in the reactor falls in the range of 1 8 1 6 to attain fluidity required for efficient bioconversion.

The mixed feedstock then is subjected to a bioconversion process where hydrolytic enzymes and a microorganism capable of fermenting hexose and or pentose to ethanol are applied simultaneously.

Hydrolysate is produced from pine and is composed of sugars released from hemicelluloses. The largest sugar component in the example prehydrolysate is mannose. The fact that the sugar concentration rises after secondary hydrolysis indicates that most of the sugars in the hydrolysate exist in oligomer form which are not fermented by yeast.

Simultaneous Saccharification and Fermentation is applied to the mixture of the pulp mill sludge and the prehydrolysate. The details of the SSF are as follows 

Enzyme Loading Cellulase Spezyme CP 15 FPU g glucan Cellobiase Novozyme 188 30 CBU g glucan 0.1 ml Pectinase Danisco Genencor 100 ml of working volume

Microorganism ATCC 00062 . is used in this example because the example hydrolysate contains mostly hexoses mannose glactose and glucose 

The results of the SSF test verifies that this invention increases the concentration of ethanol by 28 from 27.6 g L to 35.1 g L in direct comparison with a control run. This result is based on single feeding. Fed batch operation successive feeding of dewatered sludge can improve the ethanol concentration above the level obtained from Ingle feeding run.

This process has many potential applications. An illustrative application is for fuel ethanol production as a supplementary unit in pulp mills. This process scheme also can be applied to other fermentation processes where water addition is required to disperse the solid feedstock such as the co fermentation of sugarcane bagasse and cane sugar and the co fermentation of corn stover and cheese whey.

Using the present invention Kraft paper mill sludge is a feedstock amenable for bioconversion to ethanol by a microorganism such as . One method to achieve this is the co fermentation to ethanol of prehydrolysates and the primary sludge from a Kraft paper mill and comprises the following steps 

a Treating prehydrolysate obtained from the pulp feedstock with CaO to raise the pH to about 11 adding an aqueous solution of HOto the hydrolysate until the total HOconcentration is 1 wt. and adjusting the pH to about 4 5 

b Partially de ashing the primary sludge from a Kraft paper mill by physical means to remove about 85 or more of the total ash to reduce the ash level to 15 wt. or less and dehydrating the primary sludge to approximately 50 moisture level 

c Mixing the prehydrolysate and the sludge feedstock into a bioreactor such that the solid liquid ratio in the bioreactor is in the range of 1 8 to 1 6 and

d Subjecting the mixed feedstock to a bioconversion process comprising hydrolytic enzymes and a microorganism capable of fermenting hexose and or pentose to ethanol.

The methods disclosed above can be combined to result in an overall method to produce chemical values such as ethanol using cellulase enzymes all produced using paper or pulp mill sludge. This combined method is a method of chemically treating pulp mill sludge comprising 

In an illustrative embodiment the hydrolytic enzyme comprises an enzyme selected from the group consisting of cellobiase pectinase xylanase mannose and combinations thereof. In another illustrative embodiment the cellulase enzyme is produced using a cellulase producing microorganism which can be selected from the group consisting of and strains.

Preferably de ashing the sludge is accomplished by physical means. Examples of such physical de ashing means include water washing on a screen continuous centrifugation air flotation and solid liquid separation methods.

A preferred acid is HSOand a preferred alkali is NaOH. Other suitable acids that can be used in the methods of the invention include acetic acid nitric acid hydrochloric acid and lactic acid. Other suitable alkalis that can be used in the methods of the invention include calcium hydroxide. Other suitable acids and alkalis can be determined by those of ordinary skill in the field without undue experimentation.

In another embodiment of the invention the resulting sludge is a primary carbon source and mixtures of organic salts are a primary nitrogen source.

The foregoing detailed description of the preferred embodiments and the appended tables figures and references which are incorporated herein in their entireties have been presented only for illustrative and descriptive purposes. They are not intended to be exhaustive and are not intended to limit the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiments were selected and described to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical applications. One skilled in the art will recognize that many variations can be made to the invention disclosed in this specification without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention.

Table 4. Cellulase activity and productivity of Rut C 30 using de ashed and chemically treated paper mill sludge as substrates

