---

title: Method for creating high carbon content products from biomass oil
abstract: In a method for producing high carbon content products from biomass, a biomass oil is added to a cracking reactor vessel. The biomass oil is heated to a temperature ranging from about 100째 C. to about 800째 C. at a pressure ranging from about vacuum conditions to about 20,700 kPa for a time sufficient to crack the biomass oil. Tar is separated from the cracked biomass oil. The tar is heated to a temperature ranging from about 200째 C. to about 1500째 C. at a pressure ranging from about vacuum conditions to about 20,700 kPa for a time sufficient to reduce the tar to a high carbon content product containing at least about 50% carbon by weight.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08333949&OS=08333949&RS=08333949
owner: University of North Dakota
number: 08333949
owner_city: Grand Forks
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100514
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 216 177 filed May 14 2009 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. DE FG02 06ER46292 awarded by the United States Department of Energy. The government may have certain rights in the invention.

One drawback limiting the commercialization of cracking processes to convert biomass and plant oils into fuels and chemicals is the generation of high molecular weight polymeric organic compounds commonly known as tars or coke. These materials reduce the overall conversion efficiency of the cracking process generate unwanted by products and lead to catalyst fouling and other deactivation processes.

Following the invention of carbon nanotubes and other carbon based products made from high purity carbon high purity carbon is becoming an increasingly important commodity. High purity carbon is currently most commonly produced from graphitized petroleum coke calcined petroleum coke calcined anthracite coal tar pitch wood and some biomass primarily lignin hemi cellulose and or cellulosic organic material . Of these existing processes only biomass carbonization allows the production of high purity carbon from a renewable source.

Due to recent concerns about global warming processes that utilize fossil based carbon such as crude oil and coal as a raw material should be reduced. The discovery and commercialization of new renewable source alternatives offers the potential for making high purity carbon without contributing to global warming. Furthermore it is desirable to find alternatives that have comparable or superior properties to fossil based carbon can be produced in a cost competitive manner and require low processing energy.

In a method for producing high carbon content products from biomass a biomass oil is added to a cracking reactor vessel. The biomass oil is heated to a temperature ranging from about 100 C. to about 800 C. at a pressure ranging from about vacuum conditions to about 20 700 kPa for a time sufficient to crack the biomass oil. Tar is separated from the cracked biomass oil and heated to a temperature ranging from about 200 C. to about 1500 C. at a pressure ranging from about vacuum conditions to about 20 700 kPa for a time sufficient to reduce the tar to a high carbon content product containing at least about 50 carbon by weight.

The present invention utilizes cracking and carbonization reactions coupled with separation techniques to develop biomass based high carbon content products that can replace commercially available products generated from non renewable sources and other renewable sources.

The present invention provides for the production and purification of high carbon content products from biomass oil. High carbon content products include products that are predominantly composed of elemental carbon or carbon derivatives. High carbon content products typically include compounds containing 50 or greater carbon by weight as measured by elemental carbon analysis. Biomass includes any organic non fossil material that is derived from the mass of any biological organism excluding mass that has been transformed by geological processes in substances such as coal or petroleum. Biomass oils include any oil derived from a biomass source. Biomass oils include but are not limited to plant oils biologically generated lipids and animal fats. Plant oils include lipids derived from plant sources. Plant sources include any living organism that is a member of the kingdom Plantae or of the division Chiorphyta green algae . Examples of plant oils include crop oils oilseeds and vegetable oils. Particularly suitable biomass oils for producing high carbon content products include triacylglycerides long chain fatty acids long chain lipids and similar chemical compounds.

The present invention provides a means to produce valuable and necessary elemental carbon and carbon derivatives from biomass and plant oil feed stocks. The chemical modifications based on the use of cracking reactions carbonization reactions and separation techniques are designed to produce commercial quality high carbon content products that can directly replace comparable carbon products generated from fossil fuel and other sources. Cracking reactions include any processes that change the chemical composition of an organic chemical or chemical mixture by cleaving one or more carbon carbon bonds in one or more molecules. Carbonization reactions include processes that convert organic substance into elemental carbon or carbon containing residues through pyrolysis or destructive distillation.

Processes to produce fuels and short chain carboxylic acids from plant oils and biomass oils using cracking have been previously described in U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 11 824 664 and 12 319 028 which are incorporated by reference. The present invention further improves upon these processes to produce high carbon content products in addition to resolving problems related to catalyst fouling and other catalyst deactivation processes during biomass and plant oil cracking. During cracking it is possible to separate and recover tars formed during the cracking process and produce high carbon products from these tars.

Biomass oil can be preheated or fed directly into cracking reactor vessel . Biomass oil is cracked within cracking reactor vessel . By varying the time temperature and pressure under which biomass oil remains in cracking reactor vessel under cracking conditions the desired degree of cracking conversion can be controlled. Temperature and time residence time are the more important process variables with pressure playing a secondary role. Suitable cracking temperatures range from about 100 C. to about 800 C. with particularly suitable cracking temperatures ranging from about 300 C. to about 700 C. Suitable residence times include up to about 500 minutes with particularly suitable residence times being about 180 minutes or less. Suitable cracking pressures range from about vacuum conditions to about 20 700 kPa 3000 psia .

Products of the cracking process depend upon the cracking conditions the original composition of biomass oil the gaseous environment present in cracking reactor vessel and the configuration of cracking reactor vessel . Cracking conditions temperature residence time pressure are varied based on a detailed chemical analysis of biomass oil in order to produce an optimal mixture of chemical components e.g. middle distillates short chain fatty acids etc. during the cracking process. The gaseous environment inside cracking reactor vessel can vary depending on the composition of biomass oil and the cracking conditions. Inert gases nitrogen water vapor hydrogen a mixture of vapor phase organic chemicals and combinations thereof can be introduced to cracking reactor vessel before or during cracking. Cracking reactor vessel can have various reactor configurations. These configurations include batch continuous flow through flow through packed bed and fluidized bed.

In the cracking process energy is used to break carbon carbon bonds. Cracking can be thermal or catalytic. In thermal cracking thermal energy is added to a substance to cleave carbon carbon bonds. In catalytic cracking a catalyst is used to promote bond cleavage. For example in thermal cracking each carbon atom split from a carbon carbon bond ends up with a single electron and forms a radical. Reactions of the radicals can lead to various products. Breaking large organic molecules into smaller and more useful molecules can be achieved at either low or high pressure and at moderately high temperatures with a catalyst catalytic cracking or without thermal cracking . Medium C10 C14 and long greater than C16 chain fatty naturally synthesized carboxylic acids are compatible with cracking processes using either thermal or catalytic cracking. Suitable catalysts for catalytic cracking include but are not limited to alumina silica alumina sulfated metal oxides zeolites palladium niobium molybdenum platinum titanium aluminum cobalt gold and combinations thereof.

The cracking output from cracking reactor vessel can be subjected to a variety of processing steps depending on the material generated. Material generated in the cracking reactor can be classified in one of four general classes light ends middle distillate unreacted raw material recyclables and tar . Each of these materials can be separated within cracking reactor vessel or during a later separation. Separation processes can include cooling or heating liquid solid separation vapor liquid separation vapor solid separation chemical reactions or other chemical physical property manipulation.

Light ends are compounds which stay in the gaseous phase at temperatures and pressures where middle distillates are in the liquid phase. Light ends include any unreacted vapor phase material added to the reactor to manipulate the cracking reaction such as hydrogen nitrogen or water vapor in addition to small molecular weight organic chemicals and hydrocarbons generated in cracking reactor vessel during cracking. The small molecular weight organic chemicals and hydrocarbons include methane methanol ethane ethanol n pentane i pentane pentene pentanol n butane i butane butanol butane methyl ester ethyl ester etc. Light ends are separated from other material that exits cracking reactor vessel by gas liquid phase separation distillation condensation or other separation processes.

Middle distillate contains chemicals that have properties suitable for inclusion in gasoline kerosene or diesel type fuels or that have volatilities similar to those paraffins and or olefins that are suitable for inclusion in gasoline kerosene or diesel type fuels. Middle distillate includes a mixture of aromatic compounds cycloparaffinic compounds short chain carboxylic acid compounds linear paraffinic compounds olefins and other minor components generated in cracking reactor vessel . Components of middle distillate have properties desirable in transportation fuels and or organic based chemicals. Transportation fuels include kerosene jet fuel gasoline blendstock and multiple grades of diesel fuel. Organic based chemicals include aromatics such as benzene and toluene and short chain fatty acids such as acetic and propionic acid and their derivatives. Short chain fatty acids can be removed from middle distillate according to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 319 028.

In one embodiment middle distillate is produced by collecting fractions of cracked biomass having at least one of C4 to C16 alkanes alkenes aromatics cycloparaffins or alcohols C2 to C16 fatty acids or C2 to C16 fatty acid methyl esters. Collected fractions are combined to produce a fuel composition having a cloud point less than 10 C. A mixture of C2 to C16 short chain carboxylic acids is also collected.

Unreacted raw material includes those compounds having a chemical composition unsuitable as a component of middle distillate and that can be exposed to additional cracking. These compounds may be chemically identical to the original raw material biomass oil a fatty acid whose length is identical or similar to fatty acid chains in biomass oil or a partially cracked paraffin olefin or carboxylic acid that has too many carbon atoms in its primary carbon chain to be suitable as a middle distillate component. Unreacted raw material can include chemicals that enter the cracking reactor but are not converted to chemical compounds with carbon chains shorter than C16. These materials have some chemical and physical properties that are undesirable in final products. Unreacted raw material is separated from middle distillate and tar by distillation or other separation techniques. Unreacted raw material can be returned to cracking reactor vessel transferred to a second cracking reactor vessel for different cracking conditions or utilized for some other purpose.

Tar includes long chain chemical compounds generated during the cracking reaction. Tar includes chemicals produced during cracking reactions that have a higher molecular weight and or lower volatility and or lower heating value than is desired in middle distillate . Some of the components of tar can be separated from middle distillate along with unreacted raw material and processed with unreacted raw material . Tar can be separated from middle distillate by solvent extraction distillation reactive distillation evaporation membrane separation chemical reaction and combinations thereof. Other tar components typically those of higher molecular weight will be solids following cracking.

Tar that is not reprocessed with unreacted raw material can be transferred to a carbonization reactor vessel where it is exposed to carbonization conditions to produce high carbon content products. By varying the time temperature and pressure under which tar remains under carbonization conditions the desired degree of carbonization can be controlled. Suitable carbonization temperatures range from about 200 C. to about 1500 C. with particularly suitable carbonization temperatures ranging from about 400 C. to about 800 C. Suitable residence times include up to about 500 minutes. Suitable carbonization pressures range from about vacuum conditions to about 20 700 kPa 3000 psia . Tar is heated under carbonization conditions to maximize the production of a high carbon content product.

During carbonization pyrolyzation reactions take place and carbonization reactor vessel produces syngas ash and high carbon content product from tar . Syngas is a gas mixture that contains varying amounts of carbon monoxide hydrogen carbon dioxide and methane. Syngas is combustible and often used as a fuel source or as an intermediate for the production of other chemicals. Ash is a solid non combustible remnant of tar and biomass oil . Syngas and ash can be separated from high carbon content product within carbonization reactor vessel or during a later separation. At carbonization conditions syngas is a gas ash is a solid and high carbon content product is generally a liquid.

High carbon content product includes elemental carbon and carbon containing residues. Suitable high carbon content product contains at least about 50 carbon by weight. More preferably high carbon content product contains at least about 70 carbon by weight. Most preferably high carbon content product contains at least about 90 carbon by weight. The carbonization conditions within carbonization reactor vessel and the selection of biomass oil determine the carbon levels of high carbon content product .

Inert gases nitrogen water vapor hydrogen a mixture of vapor phase organic chemicals and combinations thereof can be introduced to carbonization reactor vessel before or during carbonization. Additional chemicals can also be added to carbonization reactor vessel in order to improve the properties of high carbon content product . For example chlorine or chlorinated compounds can be introduced into carbonization reactor vessel to form chlorinated carbon groups. Chlorinated carbon can be used in various mercury capture applications. Hydrochloric acid or phosphoric acid can also be added to carbonization reactor vessel to facilitate the removal of functional groups from the carbon chain backbones of tar and or high carbon content product .

High carbon content products can be further processed to yield specific desired carbon products. For example high carbon content products can be physically processed into a granulated carbon product. Elemental carbon can be subjected to additional chemical reactions to produce other carbon based products. High carbon content products include but are not limited to high purity granulated carbon activated carbon and carbon black.

Soybean oil was heated to a temperature between 300 C. and 500 C. in a cracking reactor vessel at a pressure between about vacuum conditions and 20 700 kPa 3000 psia for less than 180 minutes to induce cracking reactions that changed the chemical composition of the original soybean oil. The liquid and solids leaving the cracking reactor vessel were subjected to downstream processing in order to separate the various materials. Unreacted raw material and partially reacted material separated from the middle distillates and the tars was recycled to the cracking reactor or transferred to additional cracking reactors.

Tars were collected directly from the bottom of the cracking reactor vessel and cooled to room temperature. The tars were placed in a vacuum oven carbonization reactor vessel at temperatures ranging from 480 C. to 600 C. at a pressure of 101 kPa 14.7 psia for either five or ten minutes. Syngas created during carbonization was continuously removed from the vacuum oven. Insignificant amounts of ash were generated under these carbonization conditions. The resulting solid materials were analyzed for carbon content.

While the invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment s disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

