---

title: Subscription handling for the IP multimedia subsystem
abstract: Embodiments of the present invention include controlling user subscriptions within an IMS Application Server of an IP Multimedia Subsystem, IMS, network, via an Open Service Access Application Programming Interface, API, between the IMS network and a web-based application. Embodiments include subscribing a set of users by sending a start subscription message from said web-based application to the IMS network, the start subscription message including an address for each user in the set. An acknowledgement of the subscription is sent from the IMS network to said web-based application, the acknowledgement including a correlator uniquely identifying the subscribed set of users within the IMS network. A subscription for one or more users of the set is terminated by sending a stop subscription message from said web-based application to the IMS network, the stop subscription message including the address of the or each user for which the subscription is being stopped.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09037697&OS=09037697&RS=09037697
owner: TELEFONAKTIEBOLAGET LM ERICSSON (PUBL)
number: 09037697
owner_city: Stockholm
owner_country: SE
publication_date: 20101201
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 323 559 filed Apr. 13 2010 the disclosure of which is fully incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates to subscription handling for the IP Multimedia Subsystem and more particularly to such subscription handling enabled by the 3GPP Open Service Access requirements.

IP Multimedia services provide a dynamic combination of voice video messaging data etc. within the same session. By growing the number of basic applications and the media which it is possible to combine the number of services offered to the end subscribers will grow and the inter personal communication experience will be enriched. This will lead to a new generation of personalised rich multimedia communication services including so called combinational IP Multimedia services.

IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS is the technology defined by the Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP and ETSI TISPAN group to provide IP Multimedia services over mobile communication networks. IMS provides key features to enrich the end subscriber person to person communication experience through the use of standardised IMS Service Enablers which facilitate new rich person to person client to client communication services as well as person to content client to server services over IP based networks. The IMS makes use of the Session Initiation Protocol SIP to set up and control calls or sessions between subscriber terminals or subscriber terminals and IMS Application Servers . The Session Description Protocol SDP carried by SIP signalling is used to describe and negotiate the media components of the session. Whilst SIP was created as a subscriber to subscriber protocol IMS allows operators and service providers to control subscriber access to services and to charge subscribers accordingly.

By way of example illustrates schematically how the IMS fits into the mobile network architecture in the case of a GPRS PS access network IMS can of course operate over other access networks . Call Session Control Functions CSCFs operate as SIP proxies within the IMS. The 3GPP architecture defines three types of CSCFs the Proxy CSCF P CSCF which is the first point of contact within the IMS for a SIP terminal the Serving CSCF S CSCF which provides services to the subscriber that the subscriber is subscribed to and the Interrogating CSCF I CSCF whose role is to identify the correct S CSCF and to forward to that S CSCF a request received from a SIP terminal via a P CSCF.

Within the IMS service network IMS Application Servers ASs are provided for implementing IMS service functionality. IMS Application Servers provide services to end users in an IMS system and may be connected either as end points over the 3GPP defined Mr interface or linked in by an S CSCF over the 3GPP defined ISC interface. In the latter case Initial Filter Criteria IFC are used by an S CSCF to determine which Applications Servers should be linked in during a SIP Session establishment or indeed for the purpose of any SIP method session or non session related . The IFCs are received by the S CSCF from an HSS during the IMS registration procedure as part of a subscriber s Subscriber Profile.

An example IMS service that is facilitated by the use of ASs is that of Multimedia Telephony MMTel . MMTel allows a single SIP session to control virtually all MMTel supplementary services and MMTel media. All available media components can be easily accessed or activated within the session. Employing a single session for all media parts means that no additional sessions need to be set up to activate video to add new users or to start transferring a file.

The provision of new IMS based services by network operators and third party service providers has conventionally required a detailed technical knowledge of SIP and IMS protocols and network architectures. In order to simplify this process and therefore increase the range of IMS services and the speed with which they can be introduced the Third Generation Partnership Project commonly known as 3GPP has been working on a so called Open Service Access OSA architecture. The object of the OSA work has been to provide a set of sometimes freely available Application Programming Interfaces APIs that will allow systems developer that are unfamiliar with the IMS SIP architecture and standards to develop applications that can make use of the IMS network and its services. These APIs can be considered relatively high level abstractions of the underlying mechanisms and as such should be simple to use. The APIs are often referred to as handlers .

To date 3GPP has described a number of such APIs currently 22 . These are specified in 3GPP TS 29.199 3 V8.2.0 and all are based on Parlay X. Parlay X is a set of Web service APIs specified by a group including 3GPP and ETSI. The OSA APIs can be used in interactions between an IMS Application Server and a north bound value added service server hereafter referred to as VAS . The OSA APIs are intended to be powerful but nonetheless easy to use. A designer of a VAS service does not have to learn the details of SIP or IMS to be able to design services for such environments.

By way of example the OSA architecture may be used to implement a click to call service whereby a user initiates a call between himself herself and a third party by clicking a link on a web page. The request is routed via the Internet to the VAS which instructs an MMTel AS using the appropriate OSA API e.g. MakeCallSession with the addresses of the peer users as argument to set up the call between the parties. In practice the MMTel AS will send a SIP INVITE to the initiator s IMS enabled terminal. When the user answers the call connection to the peer user is initiated over the IMS network.

The CallNotification API TS 29.199 3 describes in CallNotificationManager a subscription handler to be used between an IMS system and the VAS. Such a subscription may be used for example to alert the VAS of incoming calls directed to a particular user where the VAS determines a call handling procedure on behalf of the MMTel. The VAS starts a subscription by sending a StartCallNotificationRequest handler. This API contains a unique reference for the subscription and may include several user addresses typically URIs in one request. The AS handling the subscription acknowledges the request to the VAS providing the VAS with a correlator identifying the particular subscription. When an event occurs in the IMS that matches the subscription an appropriate notification is sent over Parlay X to the VAS. The VAS may then act on the notification and send action instructions to the IMS. The subscription is ended by sending a StopCallNotificationRequest from VAS to IMS the message including as argument the appropriate correlator.

One of the problems with the currently described functionality in OSA subscription handling is the way a subscription is stopped. The stop handler only contains the unique correlator that is created at the start of the subscription. Since OSA subscriptions are not refreshed one can assume that a subscription is started at provisioning time of users in VAS i.e. all users provisioned within a certain time frame e.g. each day are sent in one subscription. The only thing in common for these users may be the time of provisioning. 

A subscription should act as a trigger in the AS for a user with an active OSA subscription. Therefore the subscription must be tied to the user data in the AS. The AS needs functionality to step through the users in the subscription and update user data for these users. The AS must also save the pointer between the unique correlator for the subscription and the users that the correlator it is applicable to. When later a StopCallNotificationRequest is received with only the correlator as argument the AS must find the pointer to which users it is applicable and update user data. This subscription termination process is illustrated in for a subscription made in respect of a set of three users. A function is provided within the IMS to perform a mapping between correlators and respective sets of user addresses

Since in general it will be only a common subscription time that ties a group of users together it is difficult to envisage an event that should trigger a de subscription of the same group of users. Therefore in order to allow de subscribe of individual users it is likely that real world implementations of the proposed OSA architecture will include within a StartCallNotificationRequest message only a single subscriber address rather than a set of such addresses. Nonetheless such implementations will still require within the IMS functionality to point from a correlator included in the StopCallNotificationRequest to a user. This approach is inefficient not least because it requires one subscription message to be sent from the VAS to an AS for each and every subscriber.

Whilst the OSA architecture has to date specified only Parlay X based APIs it is likely that in the future further handlers will be specified using other Web service interfaces. Examples of alternative possible Web service interfaces include those based upon Representational State Transfer REST and OneAPI. However without adaptation of the core OSA principles handlers using such alternative Web service interfaces would suffer from the problems discussed above.

It is an object of the present invention to address and overcome the problems identified in the Open Service Access architecture and which relate to IMS subscription handling.

According to a first aspect of the present invention there is provided a method of controlling user subscriptions within an IMS Application Server of an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS network via an Open Service Access Application Programming Interface API between the IMS network and a web based application. The method comprises subscribing a set of users by sending a start subscription message from said web based application to the IMS network the start subscription message including an address for each user in the set. An acknowledgement of the subscription is sent from the IMS network to said web based application the acknowledgement including a correlator uniquely identifying the subscribed set of users within the IMS network. A subscription for one or more users of the set is terminated by sending a stop subscription message from said web based application to the IMS network the stop subscription message including the address of the or each user for which the subscription is being stopped.

According to a second aspect of the present invention there is provided a web server for controlling user subscriptions within an IMS Application Server of an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS network via an Open Service Access Application Programming Interface API between the IMS network and the web server. The web server comprises a subscription setting unit for subscribing a set of users by sending a start subscription message from said web server to the IMS network the start subscription message including an address for each user in the set and for receiving an acknowledgement of the subscription from the IMS network the acknowledgement including a correlator uniquely identifying the subscribed set of users. The web server further comprises a subscription unsetting unit for terminating a subscription for one or more users of the set by sending a stop subscription message to the IMS network the stop subscription message including the address of the or each user for which the subscription is being stopped.

According to a third aspect of the present invention there is provided apparatus configured to act as an Open Service Access Application Programming Interface API between an IMS network and a web based application. The apparatus comprises an interface unit for interfacing to said web based application using said Open Service Access API and a first receiving unit for receiving a start subscription message over said interface the message identifying a set of users to be subscribed in the IMS network and for subscribing the set of users in the IMS. The apparatus further comprises a sending unit for sending an acknowledgement of the subscription over said interface to said web based application the acknowledgement including a correlator uniquely identifying the subscribed set of users within the IMS network and a second receiving unit for receiving a stop subscription message over said interface the stop subscription message including the address of the or each user for which the subscription is being stopped and for stopping the subscription in the IMS for those users identified by the included addresses.

It is proposed here to include within the Parlay X message StopCallNotificationRequest sent from a server hosting a control application to a Parlay X gateway residing in an IP Multimedia Subsystem network an address for the or each subscriber for which a Parlay X subscription is to be stopped. The receiving Parlay X gateway parses the message to determine the address es and initiates termination of the associated subscription s .

The Parlay X gateway may be implemented within an IMS Application Server within which the subscription is maintained. Alternatively the Gateway may be implemented within a separate network entity interposed between the server hosting the control application and an IMS Application Server.

In addition to the subscriber address es the message may include a correlator associated with a group subscription where the Parlay X gateway maintains a mapping between the correlator and the subscriber addresses within the group. In this way the address es contained in the message may comprise all of the addresses within the group or a subset of those addresses.

Further entities nodes may be interposed between the server hosting the control application that is a value added server and the Parlay X gateway. For example a distribution function may be located between the two entities for the purpose of interfacing a value added server to a plurality of IMS Application Servers. A security gateway may also or alternatively be located on this interface e.g. in order to handle VASes in untrusted networks.

The approach described here may be implemented using a server that hosts a control application e.g. a value added server VAS and comprises a Parlay X interface towards the Parlay X gateway. The Parlay X interface in turn comprises a message handler for constructing said StopCallNotificationRequest message such that the message includes one or more addresses for which the Parlay X subscription is to be stopped.

A Parlay X gateway may be used and which comprises a Parlay X interface towards the server hosting a control application. This Parlay X interface in turn comprises a receiver for receiving a StopCallNotificationRequest message and for parsing the message to determine subscriber addresses which it contains. The interface further comprises a subscription termination unit for terminating or initiating termination of Parlay X subscriptions associated with those addresses.

The Parlay X gateway may be implemented within an IMS Application Server implemented in a network entity together with some other functionality or implemented within a standalone network entity.

The 3GPP Open Service Access OSA architecture has been considered above. It has also been noted that OSA has specified a set of Parlay X based APIs or handlers in TS 29.199 3 V8.2.0. With reference to these OSA APIs will allow web servers to interact with the IMS Application Servers ASs residing in the IMS Service Network.

TS 29.199 3 V8.2.0 describes in particular an OSA API that allows a web based application to subscribe to IMS user notifications. This API would allow for example a web based server to receive notifications of an incoming call for a subscribed user and possibly implement an Intelligent Network IN type service such as call forwarding. This Parley X based API comprises a message for starting the subscription referred to as StartCallNotificationRequest . The message is defined as 

This message is sent by the web based application referred to hereinafter as a Value Added Server or VAS to the IMS application server AS for example at registration of a user or users with a web based service supported by the VAS. The VAS is of course provided with a Parlay X interface whilst a Parlay X gateway is either installed into the IMS AS or is provided as a separate node between the IMS AS and the web interface. The interface between the Parlay X gateway and the IMS AS may be SIP based or some other internal protocol supported by the AS. In response to receipt of the StartCallNotificationRequest the IMS AS returns to the VAS via the Parlay X gateway a StartCallNotificationResponse message. This message includes a Correlator value that uniquely identifies the subscription in the IMS AS.

Once a subscription has been made the VAS is able to terminate the subscription via the same API using the message termed StopCallNotificationRequest . This message is currently defined in TS 29.199 3 V8.2.0 as 

The Correlator is that value previously returned to the VAS by the IMS AS in the StartCallNotificationResponse. It is proposed here to change this message to the following 

As well as including the Correlator the modified StopCallNotificationRequest message includes one or more addresses that is URIs identifying the users to which the message relates. As will be readily apparent the VAS may include in the Addresses argument only the address es that is are to be stopped. This change opens up the possibility to end a subscription on a per user address basis without relying upon the Correlator. This change is partly backward compatible as a legacy IMS AS receiving such a handler can merely ignore the user addresses and act on the Correlator.

If the StopCallNotificationRequest message is modified to include the individual user addresses it is still necessary for the IMS network to parse the request and find the relevant users. There is no longer a need however to store the mapping between a correlator and a set of users in the IMS. This will significantly simplify implementation of the OSA subscription handling within the IMS and improve de subscription handling. The modified architecture is illustrated schematically in . Whilst the architecture includes a distributor this is merely responsible for transparently routing the StopCallNotificationRequest message to the correct user or users assuming that users are distributed across multiple IMS ASs within the IMS in the example of all users associated with the same AS .

In some implementations when processing a StopCallNotificationRequest handler the IMS network may continue to make use of the Correlator in addition to the user addresses themselves. For example this may be desirable where a plurality of VASs are operated with the same IMS system in which case the correlator may be stored with the user data in the IMS AS in order to find the correct VAS instance.

A first receiving unit for receiving a start subscription message over the interface the message identifying a set of users to be subscribed in the IMS network and for subscribing the set of users in the IMS.

A sending unit for sending an acknowledgement of the subscription over the interface to said web based application the acknowledgement including a correlator uniquely identifying the subscribed set of users within the IMS network.

A second receiving unit for receiving a stop subscription message over the interface the stop subscription message including the address of the or each user for which the subscription is being stopped and for stopping the subscription in the IMS for those users identified by the included addresses.

It will be appreciated by the person of skill in the art that various modifications may be made to the above described embodiment without departing from the scope of the present invention. For example rather than being a ParlayX API the Open Service Access API may be one of a Representational State Transfer REST or a GSMA OneAPI based API.

