---

title: Image searching with recognition suggestion
abstract: Image management applications allow users to upload, modify, organize, search, and/or share images. Unfortunately, current image management applications may have separate search modes and tagging modes. Accordingly, one or more systems and/or techniques for providing a user with a seamlessly integrated search, view, and/or tag experience are disclosed herein. Search results comprising tagged images and untagged images may be provided in response to a user search query. The untagged images may be contextually relevant to features of the tagged images and/or the user search query. Tagging suggestions for untagged images may be presented that allow a user to confirm or deny a tagging suggestion for an untagged image. Additionally, confirmable thumbnails corresponding to the untagged images may be presented. A confirmable thumbnail may allow a user to confirm or deny tagging a corresponding untagged image.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08495057&OS=08495057&RS=08495057
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08495057
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100517
---
Image management applications allow users to upload modify organize tag and or share images. In one example a photo application may allow a user to organize search and tag thousands of photos in a single user interface. In another example a social network may allow users to upload modify tag and share personal photos with other users of the social network. Current image management applications may provide a specific tagging mode that allows a user to tag images e.g. tag a person and a building within an image . To aid a user in tagging images an image management application may provide object recognition functionality while in a tagging mode. The object recognition functionality may allow the image management application to provide tagging suggestions to users while in the tagging mode. In one example of tagging an image a user may tag an individual a monument a car a location and or a variety of other object within images by assigning textual labels for the tagged objects. Tags provide contextual information about images that may be useful when organizing search and sharing images. For example in response to a user searching for images of Doug an image management application may present the user with tagged images having tags corresponding to Doug .

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques for presenting search results are disclosed herein. In particular a user search query may be received. In one example the user search query may be received while a user is within a search view mode as opposed to a tagging centric mode of an image management application. The user search query may be a textual string or information associated with an image tile. The user search query may be matched to tagged information of images and or features of untagged images.

Tagged search result images corresponding to the user search query may be determined. That is tagged images having previously tagged information matching the user search query may be determined as tagged search results images. For example a tagged image of a building tagged The Tower a tagged image of an outdoor scene tagged Tower and or other tagged images may be determined as tagged search results images corresponding to a user search query The Tower .

Untagged image recognition suggestions may be determined based upon untagged images corresponding to recognized features of one or more tagged search result images and or the user search query. It may be appreciated that an untagged image recognition suggestion may be interpreted as an untagged image contextually relevant to a user s current search. Image recognition techniques may be utilized to determine features of untagged images that are similar to features of tagged images. In this way untagged images may be assigned features and or grouped into recognition suggestion groups based upon feature recognition matching. In one example untagged images may be determined as untagged image recognition suggestions based upon untagged images having features corresponding to features of tagged search result images and or the user search query. In another example untagged images within a recognition suggestion group corresponding to features of tagged search result images and or the user search query may be determined as untagged image recognition suggestions.

Search results comprising one or more untagged image recognition suggestions and or one or more tagged search result images may be presented. It may be appreciated that in one example the search results may be presented to a user engaged in an image search view mode. Additionally tagging suggestions for untagged image recognition suggestions within the search results may be presented to the user. That is even though the user may be in a search view mode the user may confirm deny or create tagging information for untagged images represented by untagged image recognition suggestions within the presented search results. Additionally confirmable thumbnails may be presented to the user. A confirmable thumbnail may correspond to one or more untagged image recognition suggestions. In this way a user may confirm deny or create tagging information for untagged images represented by confirmable thumbnails.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Current image management applications allow users to upload modify organize search and or share images e.g. digital photos digitally generated images etc. . Many image management applications may provide a search view mode that allows a user to search and browse images. In addition image management applications may provide a tagging mode that allows users to tag images. Unfortunately users are not provided with a single seamless experience when search viewing and tagging images because there is a lack of integration between search view features and tagging feature. For example a user may enjoy searching and view photos. However the user may have to switch into a specific tagging centric mode to perform the task of tagging images. Switching into the tagging mode may be a disruptive and intimidating experience for users who have rarely tagged images before. The task off tagging hundreds or thousands of images may be daunting to a user to a point that the user rarely tags images. It may be advantageous to provide a user with a seamless search view tag experience that provides contextually relevant tagging suggestions so that users may tag untagged images while searching and or viewing tagged images.

Accordingly one or more systems and or techniques for presenting search results are provided herein. In particular tagging suggestions may be provided to a user as part of a seamless user experience such that the user may search view and tag images without having to venture in to a specific tagging centric mode to tag images. This allows a user to search view tag images without changing workflow between searching viewing tagged images and tagging untagged images utilizing feature recognition suggestions. For example untagged images having features relating to a search task may be presented as untagged image recognition suggestions for the user to confirm or deny. In this way the user is presented with untagged images contextually relevant to currently searched viewed tagged images.

One embodiment of presenting search results is illustrated by an exemplary method in . At the method begins. At a user search query is received. In one example the user search query may be received from a user engaged with an image management application while in a non tagging exclusive mode e.g. a mode that allows a user to search and view tagged images a mode that allows a user to edit images etc. . At tagged search result images corresponding to the user search query may be determined. It may be appreciated that one or more images may be associated with tagged information e.g. a user tags an image as My Vacation a user tags a person as Doug and another person as Colleen within an image etc. . The user search query may be used to locate tagged images having tagged information corresponding to the user search query e.g. text matching between the user search query and tagged information .

At untagged image recognition suggestions corresponding to recognized features of one or more tagged search result images and or the user search query may be determined. It may be appreciated that an untagged image recognition suggestion may be interpreted as an untagged image which may be suggested to a user for tagging. In particular features of untagged images may be determined using feature recognition technology e.g. facial recognition technology . In one example untagged images may be grouped into recognition suggestion groups of untagged images having similar features. In this way untagged images and or recognition suggestion groups of untagged images having features corresponding to recognized feature of tagged search result images and or the user search query may be retrieved as untagged image recognition suggestions. It may be appreciated that a variety of recognition techniques and or grouping techniques are contemplated as falling within the scope of the claimed subject matter.

At search results comprising one or more of the untagged image recognition suggestions and or one or more of the tagged search result images may be presented. For example tagged images and untagged images may be presented within a single search view window to a user engaged in a default mode a search mode a view mode and or modes other than a mode dedicated exclusively to tagging images. Tagging suggestions for untagged image recognition suggestions may be presented. A tagging suggestion may comprise a suggested tag label a confirmation input and a denial input. User input to confirm or deny a tagging suggestion may be received. If the user input confirms the tagging suggestion then an untagged image represented by the untagged image recognition suggestions may be tagged. If the user input denies the tagging suggestion then the untagged image recognition may be removed from the presented search results. It may be appreciated that an object recognition component and or technique may be trained based upon the user input e.g. a user denying a tagging suggestion may indicate features of the corresponding untagged image recognition suggestion do not correspond to the user search query and or features of the tagged search result images .

It may be appreciated that tagging an untagged image recognition suggestion may be interpreted as tagging the untagged image represented by the untagged image recognition suggestion.

Confirmable thumbnails corresponding to one or more of the untagged image recognition suggestions may be presented. In one example confirmable thumbnails may be presented in paged groups comprising a subset of the untagged image recognition suggestions. For example a search result may comprise 500 untagged image recognition suggestions. Confirmable thumbnails may be presented in paged groups of 15 500. In this way the user may find the task of tagging images less daunting than having the 500 images presented at one time. An untagged image of an untagged image recognition suggestion corresponding to a confirmable thumbnail may be tagged based upon receiving user confirmation of the confirmable thumbnail. In contrast a confirmable thumbnail may be removed from the presented confirmable thumbnails and or a corresponding untagged image recognition suggestion may be removed from the presented search results based upon receiving a user denial for the confirmable thumbnail.

In one example a confirmable thumbnail may comprise a rescaled resized version of an untagged image represented by an untagged image recognition suggestion e.g. a zoomed in view of an individual s face a scaled down view of an entire image . To aid in recognition and provide context of a zoomed in untagged image an untagged image recognition suggestion corresponding to a confirmable thumbnail may be presented when a user interacts with the confirmable thumbnail. For example the user may mouse over a confirmable thumbnail of a person s face. An untagged image from which the person s face was extracted may be presented e.g. an untagged image of the person playing with a dog in a yard . In this way a user may tag images based upon tagging suggestions and or confirmable thumbnails of untagged images contextually related to a search view task while search and or viewing tagged images.

In another example of presenting search results a user search query of a person s name may be received. Tagged search result images having a tagged name corresponding to the person s name may be determined. Untagged image recognition suggestions having facial features corresponding to the recognized facial features of the tagged search result images may be determined. Search results comprising one or more of the untagged image recognition suggestions and or one or more of the tagged search results images may be presented within a single search view window. Tagging suggestions for the one or more untagged image recognition suggestions within the search results may be presented. Additionally confirmable face shot thumbnails corresponding to one or more of the untagged image recognition suggestions may be presented. Tagging suggestions may be presented for the confirmable fact shot thumbnails.

The search result component may be configured to receive a user search query . In one example a user may input a textual search for related images. In another example a user may select an image tile corresponding to a tagged image as the user search query . If an image tile of a tagged image is selected then the user search query may be interpreted as tagged information of the tagged image. The user may refine the user search query by limiting the search to images stored within a particular folder.

The search result component may be configured to determine tagged search result images corresponding to the user search query . Tagged search result images may comprise tagged images having tagged information matching the user search query . For example an image tagged as The Tower may be determined as a tagged search result image where the user search query is Tower . The search result component may be configured to determine untagged image recognition suggestions . It may be appreciated that an untagged image recognition suggestion may relate to an untagged image having features corresponding to features of the tagged search result images and or the user search query . In one example untagged image recognition suggestions may comprise untagged images within a recognition suggestion group having features corresponding to features of the tagged search result images and or the user search query . In this way the search result component may determine tagged images and untagged images corresponding to the user search query .

The tagging presentation component may be configured to present search results comprising one or more of the untagged image recognition suggestions and or one or more of the tagged search result images . In one example the search results may be presented within a single search view window .

The tagging presentation component may be configured to present tagging suggestions for untagged image recognition suggestions within the search results . For example the tagging suggestion may comprise a suggested tag label e.g. Doug a confirmation option a deny option and or other information. The tagging presentation component may be configured to receive user input to confirm or deny a tagging suggestion. If the user input denies the tagging suggestion then the tagging presentation component may remove the untagged image recognition suggestion from the presented search results. If the user input confirms the tagging suggestion then the tagging presentation component may tag an untagged image represented by the untagged image recognition suggestion.

The tagging presentation component may be configured to present confirmable thumbnails corresponding to one or more of the untagged image recognition suggestions . The tagging presentation component may be configured to tag an untagged image represented by an untagged image recognition suggestion corresponding to a confirmable thumbnail based upon a user confirmation confirming the confirmable thumbnail. The tagging presentation component may be configured to remove a confirmable thumbnail from the presented confirmable thumbnails and or a corresponding untagged image recognition suggestion from the presented search results based upon a user denying the confirmable thumbnail. The tagging presentation component may be configured to receive user interaction with a confirmable thumbnail. In response to the user interaction the tagging presentation component may present an untagged image recognition suggestion corresponding to a confirmable thumbnail.

In one example of presenting confirmable thumbnails a first set of confirmable thumbnails corresponding to one or more of the untagged image recognition suggestions may be presented. A user may deny one or more of the confirmable thumbnails within the first set of confirmable thumbnails. The tagging presentation component may be configured to remove the one or more confirmable thumbnails based upon the user denial. Subsequently the user may confirm the remaining confirmable thumbnails within the first set of confirmable thumbnails using a single user input e.g. a confirm all button . The tagging presentation component may tag the remaining confirmable thumbnails based upon the user confirmation. Because the confirmable thumbnails within first set of confirmable thumbnails were denied or confirmed the tagging presentation component may present a second set of confirmable thumbnails different from the first set of confirmable thumbnails.

It may be appreciated that one or more the recognition suggestions groups may be updated. In particular a recognition suggestion group may be updated based upon an untagged image recognition suggestion and or a confirmable thumbnail being confirmed tagged or denied removed . In one example a user may confirm a confirmable thumbnail. An untagged image recognition suggestion corresponding to the confirmable thumbnail may be removed from a recognition suggestion group because the untagged image recognition suggestion is now tagged. In another example a user may deny a tagging suggestion for an untagged image recognition suggestion. Because the tagging suggestion was incorrect the untagged image recognition suggestion and or other related untagged images within a recognition suggestion group may be ungrouped and or regrouped into different recognition suggestion groups. In this way the recognition component may learn based upon user confirmation denial of tagging suggestions and or confirmable thumbnails.

It may be appreciated that a tagged image may be tagged with more than one tag. For example an image may have a person next to a car. The image may be tagged with a first tag Doug and a second tag Sports Car X .

It may be advantageous to provide untagged images along with the tagged search result images. The untagged images may have features e.g. visual features textual features and or other descriptive features that may be used to compare with recognized features of tagged images. Thus when a tagged image is returned as a tagged search result image untagged images having similar features as the tagged image may also be returned. In this way a user may search view and tag images contextually relevant to a user search query without switching into a tagging centric mode.

It may be appreciated that an untagged image may have more than one feature. For example an untagged image may have a first feature of a person s face and a second feature of a car body style. Thus an untagged image may be determined as an untagged image recognition suggestion for one or more user search queries. Furthermore an untagged image may be grouped in one or more recognition suggestion groups.

The recognition component may be configured to compare the visual features of the tagged image with features of untagged images . In this way untagged images may be organized into recognition suggestion groups. For example untagged images may be organized into a recognition suggestion group corresponding to the visual features of the tagged image . In particular three untagged images are grouped into the recognition suggestion group because the three untagged images may comprise features similar to the visual features e.g. a lake scene comprising a person with eyes and a mouth similar to visual features a business person with eyes and a mouth similar to visual features and a car next to a person with eyes and a mouth similar to visual features . However the recognition component may exclude untagged image and untagged image because the untagged images do not comprise features similar to the visual features . In this way untagged images may be grouped into recognition suggestion groups based upon untagged images having features similar to features of tagged images.

In particular tagged images having tags corresponding to Doug may be determined as tagged search result images. For example a tagged image illustrating a man in a hat may be tagged Doug at a construction site a tagged image illustrating a man with a cell phone may be tagged Doug s new phone and or other tagged images may be determined as tagged search result images. Additionally untagged images having features corresponding to recognized features of tagged search result images e.g. facial features and or other features visually extracted from tagged image and or tagged image and or the user search query Doug may be determined as untagged image recognition suggestions. An untagged image illustrating a man in a tie an untagged image illustrating a man near a car an untagged image of a man near a lake and or other untagged images may be determined as untagged image recognition suggestions. In one example untagged image recognition suggestions may be determined based upon visually extracted facial features of untagged images corresponding to facial features of the tagged search result images e.g. a similarity between eye features and mouth features .

The tagged search result images etc. and the untagged image recognition suggestions may be presented as search results . Tagging suggestions may be presented for the untagged image recognition suggestions e.g. tagging suggestions etc. . A user may confirm deny or ignore the tagging suggestions while viewing the search results .

In addition confirmable thumbnails corresponding to one or more of the untagged image recognition suggestions may be presented. For example confirmable thumbnail is a zoomed in facial view of the man in untagged image confirmable thumbnail is a zoomed in facial view of the man in untagged image etc. Confirmable thumbnails may be confirmed or denied for tagging. For example confirmable thumbnail may comprise a confirm deny option and confirmable thumbnail may comprise a confirm deny option . While browsing viewing search results the user may view and or tag untagged images through the confirmable thumbnails .

It may be appreciated that one or more tagged images may be presented as image tiles. The image tiles allow a user to easily select a tagged image as a user search query. In particular a tag e.g. Sports Car X corresponding to the tagged image represented by an image tile e.g. Sports Car image tile may be used as the user search query. For example a user may have tagged an image of a man an image of a tower an image of a car an image of a pyramid and or other tagged images. The tagged images may be presented as image tiles.

In one example the user may select My Local Images folder as a search constraint e.g. folder selection . The user may select the Sports Car image tile corresponding to a tagged image of a car having a tag Sports Car X e.g. image tile selection . In this way search results comprising tagged search result images and untagged image recognition suggestions may be presented based upon a Sports Car X user search query constrained to images located in a My Local Images folder.

Confirmable thumbnails corresponding to the Sports Car X user search query constrained to images located in the My Local Images folder may be presented. The user may confirm deny or ignore the confirmable thumbnails . For example the user may confirm a confirmable thumbnail corresponding to an untagged image recognition suggestion related to an untagged image of a car. In this way the untagged image of the car may be tagged Sports Car X .

In one example a user may mouse over the untagged image recognition suggestion . In response to the mouse over the tagging suggestion may be presented. The tagging suggestion may allow the user to confirm or deny the tagging suggestion . For example the user may confirm the tagging suggestion . In response to the confirmation of the tagging suggestion untagged image represented by the untagged image recognition suggestion may be tagged as Sports Car X. In addition a confirmable thumbnail corresponding to the untagged image recognition suggestion representing the newly tagged image may be removed from the confirmable thumbnails because the newly tagged image of the confirmable thumbnail is now tagged. In this way the user is able to tag images while search and viewing untagged and tagged images.

In one example a feature recognition matching component and or technique may be updated based upon the user input denying the confirmable thumbnail . In particular one or more of the features of the denied untagged image e.g. a sphere feature at the top of the structure may be deemed as not relating to features of tagged images having tags similar to The Great Tower . Additionally the denied untagged image may be removed from a recognition suggestion group corresponding to the tag The Great Tower . In this way the feature recognition matching component and or technique may learn based upon user tagging interactions.

A first page of confirmable thumbnails is presented. The first page may comprise a portion of the total number of confirmable thumbnails available. In one example the user may deny a confirmable thumbnail . In response to the user denial the confirmable thumbnail may be removed from the first page and a corresponding untagged image recognition suggestion may be removed from the search results. Next the user may invoke the confirm all button . In response the remaining confirmable thumbnails within the first page may be tagged e.g. confirmable thumbnail confirmable thumbnail etc. . Tagging confirmations for the confirmed remaining confirmable thumbnails may be presented at or near respective confirmable thumbnails and or corresponding untagged image recognition suggestions. Because the confirmable thumbnails within the first page are either removed or confirmed a second page of different confirmable thumbnails may be presented.

In one example an untagged image may illustrate a man near a tower. An untagged image recognition suggestion corresponding to the untagged image may be presented within the search results. In addition the confirmable thumbnail corresponding to the untagged image recognition suggestion may be presented. A user may confirm the confirmable thumbnail and or other confirmable thumbnails using the confirm all button . In this way a tagging confirmation for the untagged image may be presented at or near the confirmable thumbnail and or the untagged image recognition suggestion because the corresponding untagged image is now tagged as The Tower.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 13124 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

