---

title: System for cyber investigation and data management
abstract: A system for executing a cyber investigation by a non-expert user, including a computer having a processor, a memory, and a display; a computer-readable medium having stored thereon instructions for execution of a wizard application, the processor adapted to execute the instructions when the computer-readable medium is inserted into the computer, the processor programmed to: receive case information; receive a type of activity being investigated in response to user inputs to select the activity type from a list of possible activity types; guide the user through capturing data related to the selected activity type through steps presented to the user through one or more screens shown in the display, the steps presented such that a non-expert user can follow them; receive user inputs through a screens to obtain information needed to continue capturing the data related to the selected activity; and store the captured data in a removable data storage device or medium for analysis and use in the cyber investigation.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08707180&OS=08707180&RS=08707180
owner: The Board of Trustees of the University of Illinois
number: 08707180
owner_city: Urbana
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100817
---
This application claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 234 509 filed Aug. 17 2009 which is incorporated herein in its entirety by this reference.

This invention was made with Government support under Contract Number DOJ 2007 DN BX K186 by the U.S. Department of Justice. The United States Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present disclosure relates to cyber investigation and more particularly to a device useable within a networked computer system that provides a user friendly wizard for law enforcement personnel and other users to employ on a target computer to gather and analyze on site evidence and information from the computer system and from remote servers of service providers.

In August 2008 federal authorities announced the largest computer hacking case ever processed by the Justice Department the indictments of 11 people who allegedly stole more than 40 million credit card and debit card numbers from at least nine major U.S. retailers. Local law enforcement agencies frequently are the first responders when individuals and organizations report credit card fraud and identity theft.

It is an all too common situation however that a law enforcement officer receives a complaint from a victim of Internet fraud or harassment and while the officer does his best to capture the details valuable information on the victim s computer goes uncaptured and never gets to those with the expertise to decipher it. When faced with this scenario many law enforcement first responders LEFRs are confused as to what to do usually unable to do anything but take down the most basic information. This is because in part LEFRs are not sufficiently trained do not have sufficient computer knowledge and may lack the computer hardware and software tools that can capture this valuable information. The same can be said of other investigators that may not be considered law enforcement. Once a computer is turned off or power removed from a computer e.g. for transport to a police station or investigator s office any data that is stored in volatile memory is lost and can never be captured. Some of this data may include cached information internet related browsing data and related temporary files among other data.

With criminals becoming more sophisticated and with more crimes that take place in or through cyber space i.e. cybercrime it is becoming increasingly important that LEFRs be more prepared to capture and analyze digital computer evidence from potential evidentiary or target systems including volatile data and Web based service information. This prevents the loss of investigation critical data that could not only lead to capture of the perpetrator or criminal but also help build a legal case against the perpetrator or criminal.

By way of introduction the present disclosure introduces a system programmed to execute instructions including a Cyber investigation Law Enforcement Wizard CLEW that guides a law enforcement first responder LEFR or other investigator in the initial investigation of a target computer owned by a person of interest POI . A wizard is a user interface element that presents a user with a sequence of dialog boxes that lead the user through a series of well defined steps. The wizard includes instructions on a computer readable medium that are executed on a computer or other computing device having a display. Tasks that are complex infrequently performed or unfamiliar may be easier to perform using a wizard.

The LEFRs or other law enforcement investigators hereinafter LEFRs are not presumed to be experts in computer or networking technologies yet regularly encounter computer systems in the course of their duties in the field. Other users may also use the CLEW such as parents educators or employers for example that may have need to investigate improper including criminal use of a computer. Accordingly the term user as used herein may encompass a variety of potential CLEW users. The CLEW provides the capacity and interactive guidance to allow these non experts to quickly easily and accurately gather evidence and information from a digital system and supports on site examination of the relevant data. The CLEW provides the detective or investigator back at the police station or office with a consistent and accurate collection of relevant data that they need to carry the investigation forward. The investigation may include but is not limited to investigating cybercrimes employee Internet abuse or criminal activity such as fraud cyber stalking and missing persons.

The CLEW may be introduced through an external media such as a USB or other removable storage device including a CD ROM or DVD and the evidence captured may be stored onto an external removable storage device such as the USB device a mass storage device such as an external hard drive or on a writable CD ROM or DVD if the evidentiary or target computer system has that capability. In some embodiments the data may be transmitted via a communication system such as a Computer Aided Dispatch system back to the police station or office. The CLEW is a force multiplier that gives every officer or investigator the ability to respond to computer based crimes. The CLEW has many functions which include but are not limited to 1 capturing volatile information on the computer 2 assisting the LEFR while still at the investigation site through an initial investigation and 3 presenting the captured evidence and notes in a straight forward way to the assigned detective or investigator. The volatile information may include data cached in volatile memory by a Web browser or other application on the computer system. Additionally the CLEW can of course enable retrieval of data stored in nonvolatile storage as well.

The system may further include one or more social networking servers coupled with the network and which has its own web storage . The web storage may store social networking information including information associated with the user of the target computer. This information may also be cached locally on the target computer . The user may also be referred to herein as a person of interest POI with regards to an investigation undertaken using CLEW.

The system may further include one or more Internet service provider ISP servers coupled with the network and which has its own web storage . The web storage may include network copies of emails trails or storage of instant messaging sessions and other personal and contact information of the user of the target computer. Some of this data may be cached locally on the target computer . The system may further include one or more Internet gaming servers coupled with the network and which has its own web storage . The web storage may include gaming information including communication trails between online players of games provided by the Internet gaming server that includes the user of the target computer.

A plurality of other web users may interact with the user of the target computer and with each other over the network via websites and or networked connections provided by the social networking server the ISP server and the Internet gaming server . The web storages and may also include copies of their policies and procedures and other agreements to which users thereof agree when signing up for their respective services.

The system may further include a communications system such as a Computer Aided Dispatch CAD system for instance provided within police or squad cars that communicate via radio frequency networks with a police station central dispatch computer having a database . Accordingly any information gathered by the LEFR may be communicated directly and quickly to the police station in response to which investigators may analyze and take appropriate action without delay.

The USB device may be a thumb drive that includes software containing a cyber investigation law enforcement wizard CLEW application. The CLEW may be executed on the target computer after connecting the USB device to a USB port of the target computer. As discussed previously another device may be used to introduce the CLEW such as a CD DVD or other disk storage medium or CLEW may be introduced over the network where an avenue is achieved for doing so such as via email instant messaging or direct network access .

The social networking server may further include a memory a processor and a networking interface in addition to the web storage . Furthermore the ISP server and the Internet gaming server may include the same or similar hardware components. The web storage of the servers and may include both volatile and nonvolatile memory and information thereof related to a POI of the target computer may be accessible over a web or Internet connection through the network interfaces . Furthermore at least some of the information or data stored on the servers and related to the POI may be cached locally on the target computer .

Digital data representing potential evidence and or actionable lead information exists in many forms including live volatile data resident in the memory of the target computer nonvolatile data found on the storage devices or disks including the system storage data cached within applications and increasingly data found at remote websites accessed by the target computer. The data found at remote websites such as those employed by the social networking server the ISP server and the Internet gaming server may be stored in their respective web storages or data may be saved in relation to the browser in the form of cookies instant messaging text images files or other attachments being passed to and from the server and the target computer .

Currently there are a number of tools designed to collect the data found in system memory application caches and storage devices however identifying and collecting data from web based sources presents challenges for the non expert first responder other investigator or user. Email instant messaging social networks on line gaming and virtual worlds are part of the growing trend away from maintaining application data on the local system in favor of maintaining a state on remote Internet systems dispersed around the globe. Therefore the relevant data available to the user on the system found at the scene is often restricted to data cached by the browser. While this cached data may be important the information technically available at the remote website may be much more plentiful and relevant limiting the user s effectiveness while at the initial scene if this data cannot be reached. Collecting data and providing it to a departmental expert for subsequent examination is only an interim solution to the problem. What is needed is a way to increase the user s effectiveness during computer related incidents common in a digital age. Methods are urgently needed that enable the non expert first responder to face the daunting challenge of identifying leads concealed within the array of data scattered across an on line presence of an individual such as a user POI of the target computer .

Accordingly the system has been configured to function with the CLEW as a low cost investigation tool targeted for use by a non expert first responder or other investigators including those with little or no digital investigation expertise. Although LEFRs are referred to herein as a major user for application of the CLEW other computer investigators including parents and employers all generally referred to as users may use the CLEW with equal effectiveness and utility. Accordingly reference to LEFRs and the CLEW are but exemplary in terms of the system presently disclosed. The CLEW tool within the system guides users through the identification and collection of the available online data and helps them understand it sufficiently to discern actionable leads. In addition to live volatile evidence email and instant messaging evidence that the CLEW collects there is support for data capture from social networking sites such as Facebook. Additionally CLEW supports analysis by the user to facilitate the identification of actionable leads while still at the investigation site. In addition in some embodiments the CLEW may include integration capability with intra organizational communications such as a police department CAD system so that captured data may be sent in real time back to the organization.

The target computer may execute the CLEW program to capture information on potentially relevant items such as processes that are running registry entries related to instant messaging clients software that is installed on the computer and open network connections. The information may or may not be relevant to each individual case but the cross correlation with other information that is gathered could be quite valuable in the investigation building a more coherent useful case. Investigative entities have only one opportunity to get that information so they need to get it early.

The CLEW application may be run as a standalone application from the USB device from within the evidentiary or target computer or CLEW may be run from an entirely separate system to access remote web based data. CLEW can be integrated with one of a number of other tools that are available such as with Microsoft Office Computer Online Forensic Evidence Extractor COFEE of Microsoft Corporation of Redmond Wash. The CLEW application provides a graphical user interface that provides direction both by text and by graphical examples. The programming languages employed include JAVA and Visual Basic but others may be used and the present disclosure is not limited to a type of programming language or operating system or other third party tools with which it is integrated.

The CLEW provides law enforcement first responders with assistance while on site in capturing and analyzing information from social networking sites such as Facebook which can help the LEFRs determine the next steps to take. The CLEW includes support for data collection from social networking sites including gaming and other ISP sites enabling analysis of that evidence by the user while still on site and transmittal of the captured information via a communication system such as CAD found in the squad car back to the police department lab.

The CLEW is executed once inserted into or downloaded to a running computer such as the target computer . The user may execute the CLEW once it is available within the computer either on a computer readable medium or by way of a download. Additionally or in the alternative the CLEW may automatically execute once introduced to the computer . More generally the CLEW may be installed and run on the target computer through execution of an executable file on a computer readable medium where the CLEW is stored whether by virtue of user inputs or automated computer execution.

A graphical interface wizard is presented that asks the user what type of situation they are investigating and then walks the user through the process of gathering information such as email messages and saves them to the USB device. In this way the CLEW performs the job of a computer forensics expert with the help of the user using the wizard. In addition to the collection of evidence the CLEW guides the user through an investigation of the computer via a selection of case scenarios and provides a summary analysis of the available evidence with the goal of providing immediate actionable steps to the user. The CLEW further enables the capture and tamper resistant storage of live data automatically documents the steps of the user for configuring the target system to better capture future or additional evidence suggests follow up steps for configuring the target system to better capture future evidence and provides upload and or download capability for analysis by other investigators. The data that is stored may be made tamper resistant by using a cryptographic hash. Doing so helps maintain the integrity of the data as evidence in a case being built against a perpetrator or criminal based on information located on or through the computer .

As shown in these options include to capture one or more email messages at block to capture one or more instant messages IM at block and to capture Facebook or other social networking data at block . Note that while Facebook is used as a specific example of a social networking service provider because of its popularity other social networking providers are envisioned. If the user chooses to capture email or IM messages the computer through the CLEW helps the user to navigate to the correct message window s as will be explained in more detail later. If the user selects the Facebook data capture option the computer provides a login screen at block for logging in as the POI or as a friend of the POI which may include a family member. Capturing Facebook data may include a series of steps discussed in more detail later and the data may be stored in the USB or other storage device at block . At block the computer may execute a summary program CLEW SUM to display reports or otherwise to display summarized results of the captured data that are organized according to class of data which will be explained in more detail later. Screen shots of some of these reports or summarized results may be saved to the USB or other storage device at block . These reports or summary screens may enable the user to analyze and develop a course of action with regards to the POI while at the scene of a cybercrime or other event of interest to the investigator involving the computer .

At block the computer may present to the user a list of choices from which to select to start gathering data from the computer . At block the user may select to start an email case at block the user may select to start an IM case and at block the computer may display to the user a sorry screen apologizing to the user that no other option is currently available. At block a link from elsewhere in CLEW especially at later steps in the data gathering process may link back to block to begin a new case or to further seek additional evidence.

In one example displays an action selection screen of the CLEW of the selections to be made by a LEFR or other user based on the nature of the complaint. The complaint may involve one or more of an email message an instant message IM a Facebook post or the like or some other information. Such messages or posts may include threatening or inappropriate language or may include malicious code such as a virus or the like.

If at block the user selects paper copy the computer may display an inquiry to the user such as can the complainant show an electronic version to ensure that there is no electronic version available. If the user responds in the negative the computer may prompt the user to at block to record the to from information of the email as well as the date of the email. If the user responds in the affirmative the computer may ask the user at block which email client program is being used. The options may include Microsoft Outlook at block Web Email in Internet Explorer IE at block or Web Email in Firefox at block . Different or additional email clients may be included. For instance the screen shot in displays a list of email client program options from which the user may select including IE Mozilla Firefox Microsoft Outlook or Outlook Express. The screen shot in provides a hint as to where to look to find which program it is and it may also direct the user to look under the About option in the Help menu of the CLEW application.

For instance at block the computer may automate saving the email. At block the computer may allow the user to view the saved email and at block determine whether the email was properly saved. If the email did not save the computer may return to block to try again. If the email did save the computer at block may ask whether the user wants to save another email. If yes the computer may circle back to block to start the process of saving another email. At block the computer may ask the user if the user wants to start another case scenario. If the user answers yes the computer may link through block to the new case screen . If the user answers no the computer may exit from the CLEW application at block .

If the user responds that none of the listed email service providers match the service provider of the email of concern the computer may at block display a Sorry screen to apologize for the lack of instructions. The computer may still at block direct the user to save the email however the instructions presented to the user for doing so may be limited. At block the computer may allow the user to view the captured email. At block ask the user if the computer properly saved the email and continue giving the user a chance to save the email at block if the email was not saved. If saving the email worked the computer may allow the user to view the email at block . At block the computer may ask the user if the user wants to save another email. If the user wants to continue saving email in the unknown email client the computer may direct the user back to the sorry screen at block and continue the email capture process from that point.

If the user responds at block that the IM is in paper form the computer may at block ask whether the complainant can show an electronic version of the IM. If no the computer may take the user to block in which it asks the user whether or not the user wants to look for the IM in a log. If yes the computer may take the user to block and ask the user what IM program is used for the IM of concern. is a screen shot of an action selection screen to determine from which IM provider the IM is to be saved. Examples include but are not limited to selection of a Yahoo IM case at block selection of a MSN IM case at block selection of an AOL IM case at lock and selection of any Other IM program case at block . Depending on which IM program is selected for an IM case the steps may vary to some degree because different IM programs allow a different degree of automation of IM message capture.

If the user responds that the archive setting is off the computer may suggest to the user at block to turn on logging which is explained in more detail later with reference to . If the user responds that the archive setting is Clear at Logout then the computer may suggest to the user to turn on saving of logs at logout which is an option show in .

If the user responds that the logging setting is set to off the computer may suggest to the user at block to turn on logging which is explained in more detail later with reference to .

In a settings screen is displayed one of which includes Message History and whether the user wants to Automatically keep a history of my conversations. This screen roughly corresponds to block of which asks the user what is the current IM logging setting. In the option to automatically keep a history of conversations is selected as displayed to the user to suggest as at block that the user turn on logging. In the action screen provides a list of contacts with whom there are archived conversations. The user is directed to double click the file name that is similar to the offending IM conversation and then once again warns the user that a series of windows will appear and then disappear as the computer automatically saves the IM chats to the USB or other storage device.

If the user responds that the logging setting is set to off the computer may suggest to the user at block to turn on logging which is explained in more detail later with reference to . At block the computer may also ask the user to input the name and date of the IM message of concern that was likely not saved in the logs.

More generally the computer by executing the CLEW application may obtain email and social networking including Facebook data related to the POI from remote servers through the interne browser as well as from the local computer memory and data storages as discussed earlier. The computer can capture this data through a browser interface IE Firefox and the like . The following are three scenarios for how the data may be or fail to be originally captured by the user.

 1 The username and password of the POI user is known for instance a parent may supply the username and password. Armed with the username and password the account profile and associated Facebook and or email data may be available by simply logging in through a browser whether on the target computer or another computer.

 2 The POI user was recently logged in and the cookies are still active so the account is currently accessible through the display of the target computer and the data may be pulled directly off the target computer by accessing a remote server such as the social networking server e.g. Facebook . The cookies may be stored in memory of the computer in relation to the email client or Facebook website. The remote server may also be an email server.

 3 If no cookies are found the session is not active and the username and password is unknown but the username and password of a friend of the POI such as a parent is known then the computer can access a large portion of the POI s Facebook data through the account of the friend. Other legal means may have to be pursued at a later date such as serving a subpoena on a social networking or email provider. In the case of Facebook however the LEFR on the target computer or on another computer may access the profile wall and other Facebook data through an account of a friend or family member.

With further reference to the computer may at block present a list of friends of the person of interest POI . At block the computer may capture the profile screen of the POI. At block the computer may parse the POI profile information as described in more detail with reference to .

At block the computer may parse the friend pages and at block continue to parse additional friend pages for as long as they are available. At block the computer may parse wall pages or any other data items within pages of a social networking website and at block continue to parse wall pages or other data items for as long as they are available. At block the computer may parse photo pages and at block continue to parse photo pages for as long as they are available.

At block the computer may parse mini feed pages and at block determine whether there are additional mini feed pages to be parsed. If the response to block is yes then the computer may determine whether the tenth page has yet been parsed. If the tenth mini feed page has not been parsed the computer may continue doing so at block until the tenth page has been parsed. The computer may then ask the user whether the user wants to continue parsing mini feed pages. If yes then the computer may return to block and continue parsing mini feed pages. If no then the computer may export the JavaScript Object Notation JSON data from Facebook to be saved in the USB or other data storage device. Furthermore when there are no more mini feed pages to be parsed at block the computer may start the summary program CLEW SUM discussed earlier. The CLEW SUM may present reports and or other graphs or screens that summarize the collected data making it easier for the user to analyze the data and to make an action plan integrating the data in an effort to capture the POI or other perpetrator.

The data stored in Facebook is generally stored in the JSON format which provides the highest level of information within the data. If a Facebook API is used the JSON may be scraped instead of just HTML code. From time to time Facebook changes their interface which means that the API and other software executed to scrape the Facebook data has to also be updated. Any target computer may be adapted through the execution of an updated CLEW to capture Facebook data including HTML and JSON scrapes screen captures client API and Facebook graph API.

Facebook data may be captured from the wall page through the following non exhaustive steps. At block the computer may parse a wall post by at block following a comment link and parsing the new page on which the users lands. At block the computer may determine if the wall post is a duplicate. If the wall post is not a duplicate at block the computer may save the wall post to data on the USB or other storage device classified as wall posts for the POI. At block the computer may ask the user whether the user wants to capture another wall post.

Facebook data may be captured from the photos page through the following non exhaustive steps. At block the computer may get a thumbnail of a photo. At block the computer may follow a link associated with the thumbnail to the full size photo. At block the computer may parse the photo for its image and other contents which may include user informational tags. At block the computer may add the photo to data on the USB or other storage device classified as photos for the POI. At block the computer may ask the user whether the user wants to capture another photo.

Facebook data may be captured from the mini feed page through the following non exhaustive steps. At block the computer may get a mini feed story and at block follow links to media or follow a comment link to parse a new page with the mini feed story. At block the computer may check if the mini feed story is a duplicate. If the mini feed story is not a duplicate at block the computer may add the mini feed story to data on the USB or other storage device classified as mini feed stories for the POI. At block the computer may ask the user whether the user wants to capture another mini feed story.

In summary the system including the CLEW application is focused on supporting the non expert first responder such as LEFR or employer in the capture and easy analysis of information found both on the system being investigated and on the network or Web based data associated with the person being investigated. Specifically the system provides functionality including but not limited to the 1 capture of volatile information found in the memory of the system 2 capture of Web based data associated with the person being investigated 3 simple field analysis 4 update and dissemination solutions 5 data evidence management 5 cross platform support 6 inexpensive and useable form factor 7 report generation and 8 investigator tools.

The CLEW application executed on the target computer targets specific kinds of information including email headers instant messaging conversation logs cookies Internet history and web session data on a local computer such as the target computer or on remote web databases such as the web storage of the servers . The CLEW application thus performs a sort of informational triage looking first for the most important type of evidence or evidence most frequently encountered and found to be helpful.

At block the computer through executing CLEW IT may determine the target directory based on a session ID. At block the computer may determine whether the target directory exists and whether it has content. If the target directory exists and has content then the computer at block may prompt the user again to select the desired session directory as the source and at block to again choose a target directory so as not to overwrite an existing target directory. If the target directory exists and does not have content then the computer through CLEW IT may copy all the content from the source USB or other storage device to the target directory. Note that when the data is saved by the LEFR or user to the USB or other storage device the data may be processed through a cryptographic hash algorithm to create a hash or checksum value which may be verified later by the computer running CLEW IT. Accordingly at block the computer may verify individual hash or checksum values to ensure the data was unaltered since being saved by the LEFR or user at the crime scene. The hash or checksum values may be created from individual items of data. Additionally or in the alternative the computer may also create and store a master hash value which serves as a mechanism to validate the integrity of all the stored data for a session e.g. to determine if the originally captured data for the session has been altered in any way.

In a networked deployment the computer system may operate in the capacity of a server or as a client user computer in a server client user network environment or as a peer computer system in a peer to peer or distributed network environment. The computer system may also be implemented as or incorporated into various devices such as a personal computer or a mobile computing device capable of executing a set of instructions that specify actions to be taken by that machine including and not limited to accessing the network through any form of browser. Further each of the systems described may include any collection of sub systems that individually or jointly execute a set or multiple sets of instructions to perform one or more computer functions.

The computer system may include a processor such as a central processing unit CPU and or a graphics processing unit GPU . The processor may include one or more general processors digital signal processors application specific integrated circuits field programmable gate arrays digital circuits optical circuits analog circuits combinations thereof or other now known or later developed devices for analyzing and processing data. The processor may implement the set of instructions or other software program such as manually programmed or computer generated code for implementing logical functions. The logical function or any system element described may among other functions process and or convert an analog data source such as an analog electrical audio or video signal or a combination thereof to a digital data source for audio visual purposes or other digital processing purposes such as for compatibility for computer processing or networked communication.

The computer system may include a memory on a bus for communicating information. Code operable to cause the computer system to perform any of the acts or operations described herein may be stored in the memory . The memory may be a random access memory read only memory programmable memory hard disk drive or any other type of volatile or non volatile memory or storage device.

The computer system may also include a disk solid state drive optical drive unit . The disk drive unit may include a computer readable medium in which one or more sets of instructions e.g. software can be embedded. Further the instructions may perform one or more of the operations as described herein. The instructions may reside completely or at least partially within the memory and or within the processor during execution by the computer system . Accordingly the databases or storage and described above may be stored in the memory and or the disk unit .

The memory and the processor also may include computer readable media as discussed above. A computer readable medium computer readable storage medium machine readable medium propagated signal medium and or signal bearing medium may include any device that includes stores communicates propagates or transports software for use by or in connection with an instruction executable system apparatus or device. The machine readable medium may selectively be but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium.

Additionally the computer system may include an input device such as a keyboard or mouse configured for a user to interact with any of the components of system including user selections or menu entries of display menus. It may further include a display such as a liquid crystal display LCD a cathode ray tube CRT or any other display suitable for conveying information. The display may act as an interface for the user to see the functioning of the processor or specifically as an interface with the software stored in the memory or the drive unit .

The computer system may include a communication interface that enables communications via the communications network which may include or function similarly to the network interface or . The network may include wired networks wireless networks or combinations thereof. The communication interface network may enable communications via any number of communication standards such as Ethernet AVB 802.11 802.17 802.20 WiMax or other communication standards.

Accordingly the system may be realized in hardware software or a combination of hardware and software. The system may be realized in a centralized fashion in at least one computer system or in a distributed fashion where different elements are spread across several interconnected computer systems. Any kind of computer system or other apparatus adapted for carrying out the methods described herein is suited. A typical combination of hardware and software may be a general purpose computer system with a computer program that when being loaded and executed controls the computer system such that it carries out the methods described herein. Such a programmed computer may be considered a special purpose computer.

As described herein any modules or processing boxes are defined to include software hardware or some combination thereof executable by the processor . Software modules may include instructions stored in the memory or other memory device that are executable by the processor or other processors. Hardware modules may include various devices components circuits gates circuit boards and the like that are executable directed and or controlled for performance by the processor .

The system may also be embedded in a computer program product which includes all the features enabling the implementation of the operations described herein and which when loaded in a computer system is able to carry out these operations. Computer program in the present context means any expression in any language code or notation of a set of instructions intended to cause a system having an information processing capability to perform a particular function either directly or after either or both of the following a conversion to another language code or notation b reproduction in a different material form.

While various embodiments of the invention have been described it will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art that many more embodiments and implementations are possible within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the invention is not to be restricted except in light of the attached claims and their equivalents.

