---

title: Packaging for gummy substratum
abstract: Implementations of the present invention include methods, devices, and systems that provide effective packaging items with at least one gummy surface. In particular, implementations of the present invention provide a package for items with a gummy surface that does not require a separate liner to be placed on the gummy surface. In example implementations, the package includes inadhesive polymers such that the item can be removeably adhered to a portion of the package. Moreover, example embodiments of the present invention provide packaging devices, systems, and methods that allow an item with a gummy surface to be packaged without any part of the package interfacing with the gummy surface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09211988&OS=09211988&RS=09211988
owner: CAO Group, Inc.
number: 09211988
owner_city: West Jordan
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100920
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 276 993 filed Sep. 18 2009 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 319 124 filed Mar. 30 2010. Both the 993 and the 124 applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present disclosure generally relates to packaging and particularly to packaging of items having a sticky or tacky surface on at least a portion of a surface of the item e.g. gummy substratum .

Many items and products that are manufactured today are packaged for shipment to various commercial destinations. In fact most products sold in today s economy are at one time or another packaged during the various stages of manufacturing handling or shipping. Although there are various reasons for packaging a product e.g. customer recognition or marketing a primary purpose of a package is to protect the contents of the package during the handling and shipping process until the package is eventually opened by the end user. Therefore manufacturers often design packages to allow a particular product to arrive to the end user in essentially the same condition as the product left the manufacturer.

Accordingly packaging plays an important role for manufacturers of products to provide end users with a quality product. Due to the importance of packaging a manufacturer may scrutinize each individual item to determine the best and most efficient way to ship the item. Packaging and shipping expenses may be a costly and resource intensive portion of a manufacturer s production process. Any improvements in the packaging characteristics of an item that reduces the number of packages the size of the package and or the time associated with packaging the item may greatly decreases the overall production cost of that particular item. Therefore reducing packaging and shipping costs may be beneficial to a manufacturer allowing for either increased profit or a more competitive price of the item in the market.

The successful packaging of varying types of items may present a varying set of packaging challenges depending on the characteristics of the items to be packaged. For example the following list represents various item categories and generally illustrates that the characteristics of an item to be packaged may be associated with the characteristics of the packaging of that item. Some example item categories may include 

1. Non fragile solids non fragile solid items may be packaged in a plastic wrap or bag and then placed in a box with standard cushioning material 

2. Fragile solids fragile solid items may be packaged in a plastic wrap or bag and then placed in a box with maximum amount of cushioning material 

3. Liquids liquids may be packaged in a shatter resistant container that is covered by a plastic wrap or bag and

4. Gases gases may be packaged in a metal puncture resistant cylinder that is covered in plastic wrap or a bag.

Notwithstanding the above general categories some specialty items are much more difficult to package and ship which often leads to customized packaging to allow adequate delivery of the specialty items to the end user.

One example of specialty items that pose a packaging challenge may include substances and or compounds that are gummy or sticky. Items that are gummy or sticky have an inherent property of adhering to items with which they come into contact. In particular gummy or sticky items may adhere to conventional packaging or wrappers and in most cases make it nearly impossible to separate the item from the packaging. Thus gummy or sticky items require customized packaging in order to successfully provide the gummy or sticky item to the end user.

Various strategies have been developed to manage the problems associated with packaging gummy or sticky items. Some convention strategies in packaging gummy or sticky items include 

1. No stick wrapper A no stick wrapper may be a single component material designed at the molecular level to minimize adhesion between the gummy item and the wrapper. Examples of suitable no stick wrapper materials include fluorinated or chlorinated polymers such as Teflon polymeric silicone or PVC. Other materials could include solid waxes such as paraffin.

2. Release Agents Conventionally release agents are compounds that are applied onto the packaging that minimizes adhesion between the gummy or sticky item and the packaging. Examples of release agents include waxes such as those found coated onto wax paper. Other release agents could include oils such as silicone or vegetable oils. Traditionally oils may be applied on a polymeric or paper sheet.

Currently there are various gummy or sticky items that are commercially available that utilize the various packaging techniques to package a gummy or sticky item. For example a FRUIT ROLL UP utilizes a type of no stick wrapper. In particular a FRUIT ROLL UP is made of a thin sticky layer of a fruit laden confection that is applied to a sheet of cellophane. After application the sheet of cellophane is rolled up such that both the front and back of the cellophane act as a continuous wrapper.

Although the packaging of the FRUIT ROLL UP may protect both sides of the sticky fruit laden confection this type of packaging has several disadvantages. One example drawback is that the ease of separating the confection depends on which side of the cellophane the confection releases first. Ideally the fruit laden confection releases on the leading end of the cellophane causing the roll to unravel and provide access to the FRUIT ROLL UP. Often times however the fruit laden confection will stay stuck to the body of the roll causing the end user to have to tediously and carefully peel away the confection. Furthermore during the tedious peeling away process the FRUIT ROLL UP will often tear causing the unpacking process to become increasingly more difficult and frustrating for the end user.

Another disadvantage of a FRUIT ROLL UP type wrapper is that it requires an additional package to environmentally seal the FRUIT ROLL UP. In particular a FRUIT ROLL UP requires a no stick wrapper to manage the sticky confection and requires an additional package to environmentally seal the FRUIT ROLL UP. Without the use of an additional package the no stick wrapper may fail to seal the FRUIT ROLL UP causing the FRUIT ROLL UP to dry out and or become contaminated.

An example of using a release agent in the packaging of gummy or sticky items is the packaging of salt water taffy. The conventional wrapper for salt water taffy is wax paper. The wax serves as a releasing agent because the wax is inherently harder to adhere to than paper. One disadvantage to using a release agent like wax is that the wax may release onto the candy and be ingested by the end user. Another disadvantage to the packaging design of saltwater taffy is that it is not individually environmentally sealed.

A third example of packaging a gummy or sticky item is dental whitening strips such as CREST WHITESTRIPS. CREST WHITESTRIPS essentially consist of a plastic backing material layered with a coat of whitening gel that has a sticky characteristic. In order to protect the whitening gel a release liner is used to cover the whitening gel. Thus the whitening gel is positioned between a backing material and a release liner. The whitening gel is then placed within an additional package to protect the whitening gel from the environment thus preventing the whitening gel from drying out or becoming contaminated.

One disadvantage to conventional packaging for whitening gels as described above is that if whitening gel is packaged without a release liner then the whitening gel causes a mess and will not arrive to the end user in a useable form. On the other hand by using a release liner an additional manufacturing step as well as additional packaging material is added to the packaging of the whitening gel causing the cost to package and ship the whitening gel to increase. Moreover a release liner does not seal out the sides of the whitening gel and therefore a second environment package must be used again causing the cost of packaging and shipping to increase.

Accordingly there are a number of disadvantages in the conventional art of packaging gummy or sticky substances.

Implementations of the present invention include methods devices and systems that provide effective packaging items with at least one gummy surface. In particular implementations of the present invention provide a package for items with a gummy surface that does not require a separate liner to be placed on the gummy surface. In example implementations the package includes inadhesive polymers such that the item can be removeably adhered to a portion of the package. Moreover example embodiments of the present invention provide packaging devices systems and methods that allow an item with a gummy surface to be packaged without any part of the package interfacing with the gummy surface e.g. the gummy surface is suspended without contact from any part of the package .

Additional features and advantages of the invention will be set forth in the description which follows and in part will be obvious from the description or may be learned by the practice of the invention. The features and advantages of the invention may be realized and obtained by means of the instruments and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims. These and other features of the present invention will become more fully apparent from the following description and appended claims or may be learned by the practice of the invention as set forth hereinafter.

Implementations of the present invention include methods devices and systems that provide effective packaging items with at least one gummy surface. In particular implementations of the present invention provide a package for items with a gummy surface that does not require a separate liner to be placed on the gummy surface. In example implementations the package includes inadhesive polymers such that the item can be removeably adhered to a portion of the package. Moreover example embodiments of the present invention provide packaging devices systems and methods that allow an item with a gummy surface to be packaged without any part of the package interfacing with the gummy surface e.g. the gummy surface is suspended without contact from any part of the package .

As will be appreciated more fully herein embodiments of the present invention provide an effective package for items having at least one gummy surface. In particular example embodiments of the invention provide an environmentally sealed package that does not allow the item s gummy surface to dry out. Moreover due to the sealed package the item and the gummy surface on the item is protected from any contamination from outside the package.

Additionally example embodiments of the present invention allow an end user to easily open the package. Once opened the package provides the user with easy access to the item with the gummy surface. Thus although the item is gummy and sticky the package allows an end user to easily access the item for use without necessarily having to interfere with the gummy surface of the item.

Also example embodiments of the present invention provide a cost effective and time efficient method of packaging items having at least one gummy surface. For example the item with the gummy surface may be placed within the package without the need for a release liner or similar device to interface with the gummy surface. Thus the present invention provides a package that requires less material and less time to package which in turn reduces expenses.

In particular the present invention contemplates the use of packaging that is more rigid than a thin sheet of plastic e.g. plastic bag . Example embodiments include any environmentally sealable package that can maintain any given shape. For example a relatively rigid plastic flat U shaped or V shaped trough can be formed within the package wherein the item with the gummy surface is positioned within the trough surface side up. Due to the fact that the gummy surface is positioned within the trough with the gummy surface side up the gummy surface of the item never comes into contact with any packaging surface. The package is sealed with a cover that is sealed e.g. attached closed bonded or snapped together to form an environmental seal.

As an overview one example package according to the present invention includes a rigid plastic tray having one or more troughs formed into the rigid plastic tray. The item with the gummy surface may correspond to the shape of the troughs such that the item may fit snuggly or loosely into the trough. A thin bead of adhesive may be applied between the trough and the surface opposite the gummy surface on the item backing material side . The adhesive bead temporarily holds the item in place within the trough. Finally a cover may be sealed over the trough to environmentally seal the item within. In this manner the package provides a confined free space around the gummy surface of the item wherein the gummy surface does not come into contact with anything until an end user opens the package to access the item.

The various components of the package discussed above may be made of various materials. Conventional plastics such as polypropylene PVC polyethylene and many other plastics are suitable as long as the required rigidity of the container is maintained.

In addition to the various materials with which the packaging can be made the packaging can be configured to have any geometric dimension and configuration. As will be discussed further below exemplary embodiments of the invention are directed toward packaging one or more treatment strips e.g. dental treatment strips . Accordingly the packaging described and illustrated below includes a substantially flat rectangular geometric configuration having dimensions that correspond to the relative dimensions of the dental treatment strips. However the invention is not limited to these geometric configurations as the packaging can include almost any geometric configuration necessary for a particular item to be packaged.

Moreover example embodiments of the present invention are not limited to packaging treatment strips. Rather example embodiments of the present invention may be used to package almost any item that includes at least one gummy surface. For the purposes of this application a gummy surface is a surface that includes one or more of the following properties sticky gel like jelly like gluey and or includes any adhesive characteristics.

Referring now to the drawings illustrates one example embodiment of a package used to package items with a gummy surface. As briefly discussed above the package includes a rigid tray that includes one or more troughs. For example illustrates that the rigid tray can include four troughs . However in alternative embodiments the rigid tray can include any number of troughs .

Each of the troughs are designed to support and protect a treatment strip . To this end each trough may include a shelf substantially in a center portion of the trough . Due to the shelf each end of the trough can also include a recess . The shelf and the recess work together to allow an end user to easily access the treatment strip . For example a portion of the treatment strip can hang off the shelf and over the recess thus allowing an end user to slide his her finger under the portion of the treatment strip that is hanging off the shelf . Upon positioning their finger under the treatment strip the end user can simply pull the treatment strip away from the trough .

The trough can vary in geometric dimension and configuration from one rigid tray to the next or within the same rigid tray . For example illustrates that the trough may have a rectangular length with rounded ends. However in alternative implementations the geometric configuration may vary widely depending on the geometric configuration of the item to be packaged witin the package .

Similarly the geometric dimensions of the trough can vary from one embodiment to the next and within the same embodiment. For example illustrates four troughs all having substantially the same geometric dimensions. Attentively however the troughs can be configured to be different sizes to hold different sized items.

As mentioned above each trough includes a shelf on which the treatment strip is positioned. Treatment strips may have various properties and characteristics. In one embodiment the treatments strips comprise a gummy surface and backing material . The gummy surface is sticky and includes adhesive properties while the backing surface does not easily adhere to other surfaces. It is noteworthy that the treatment strip is not attached to nor does it include a separate release liner. The treatment strips can be of multiple sizes such as the molar strips e.g. the smaller of the treatment strips or the bicuspid to bicuspid strips e.g. the longer of the treatment strips .

In one example the treatment strip is positioned on the shelf of the trough by placing the backing surface on the shelf . For example the backing surface interfaces with the shelf portion of the trough . Because the backing surface does not easily adhere to other surfaces a bead of adhesive may be applied to the shelf prior to positioning the treatment strip within the trough . The adhesive helps to securely hold the treatment strip in place during shipping and handling of the package . However the adhesive has characteristics such that the adhesive and backing surface may be separable upon an end user pulling the treatment strip away from the shelf .

Although the adhesive can be almost any adhesive that will releasably secure the backing material of the treatment strip one embodiment of the present invention calls for the use of silicon as the adhesive. Various other types of fasteners may be used to releasably hold the treatment strip to the shelf within the trough depending on a particular implementation.

Due to the fact that the backing surface of the treatment strip interfaces with the shelf the gummy surface remains untouched by any portion of the package . In particular the treatment strips are placed gummy surface up. Once the treatment strips are placed within the troughs a cover e.g. a foil or plastic covering completely covers the troughs and is sealed to the rigid shell along the perimeter of the rigid shell . Cover may be heat sealed glued chemically bonded or simply attached to the rigid tray using any variety of adhesive products and methods.

Even after being sealed to the rigid tray the cover does not contact the gummy surface of the treatment strips because the troughs are configured to be deep enough that the cover cannot interfere with the treatment strips . Thus no part of the package interacts with the gummy surface leaving the gummy surface generally containing the medicament untouched are ready for use by the end user.

Upon delivery the end user removes the cover and with the end user s fingers utilizing the recess in the trough the end user grasps and peels away the treatment strip from the adhesive bead . Because the rigid tray provides a no contact surface over the gummy side of the treatment strip the treatment strip is much easier to remove compared to other conventional packaging systems.

For example illustrate yet another example package . Package is similar and can include all the features discussed above with respect to . For example package includes a rigid tray that includes a trough . The trough includes a shelf that forms a recess to assist the end user in accessing a treatment strip . As with package the treatment strips are positioned within the troughs with the gummy surface side up such that no part of the package interfaces with the gummy surface.

Different however from package is the pattern in which the adhesive bead is applied to the shelf . As illustrated in the adhesive bead is applied in a rounded zigzag pattern. The rounded zigzag pattern can assist the adhesive bead in staying adhered to the shelf while at the same time releasing the treatment strip as the user is peeling back the treatment strip . The adhesive bead can also be applied in various other patterns.

Accordingly and the corresponding text provide a number of different components and modules that provide a package used to package an item with at least one gummy surface. In addition to the foregoing implementations of the present invention can also be described in terms of flowcharts comprising one or more acts in a method for accomplishing a particular result. For example illustrates a method of packaging an item with at least one gummy surface. The acts of are discussed more fully below with respect to the components discussed with reference to through .

For example shows that the method comprises an act of securing an item having a gummy surface within a trough. For example illustrates that the treatment strip which has a gummy surface is secured within the trough .

Also the method comprises an act of sealing the trough with a cover wherein the gummy surface of the item contacts only air sealed within the trough. For example illustrates that the treatment strip which as a gummy surface can be sealed between the cover and the trough such that the gummy surface does not contact any portion of the package .

Accordingly the diagrams and figures provided in through illustrate a number of methods devices systems configurations and components that can be used to effectively package an item having a gummy surface.

The present invention may be embodied in other specific forms without departing from its spirit or essential characteristics. The described implementations are to be considered in all respects only as illustrative and not restrictive. The scope of the invention is therefore indicated by the appended claims rather than by the foregoing description. All changes which come within the meaning and range of equivalency of the claims are to be embraced within their scope.

