---

title: Passive boundary layer control elements
abstract: Sub-boundary-layer-scale ramp-like vortex generators that can be mounted on any surface such as the wing of an airplane, the inlet to a propulsion system, the hull of a ship, or any other surface over which a fluid moves, when the objective is to minimize drag, irreversibility losses, or other performance penalties that can occur for reasons such as boundary layer separation or other undesirable boundary layer properties. The disclosed devices acts to passively induce streamwise vortices in the boundary layer, thereby transferring high-momentum fluid toward the surface in such a way as to alter the shape of the velocity profile within the boundary layer and thereby avoid or delay separation or alter other properties of the boundary layer.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08528601&OS=08528601&RS=08528601
owner: The Regents of The University of Michigan
number: 08528601
owner_city: Ann Arbor
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100329
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 164 699 filed on Mar. 30 2009 and U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 211 540 filed on Mar. 31 2009. The entire disclosure of each of the above applications is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Grant No. FA8650 06 2 2625 awarded by the U.S. Air Force Research Laboratory. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present disclosure relates to vortex generators and more particularly relates to passive boundary layer control elements having a pair of cooperating micro ramps inducing vortices in a fluid that remain adjacent to a surface in response to their mutual Biot Savart induced interaction.

This section provides background information related to the present disclosure which is not necessarily prior art. This section also provides a general summary of the disclosure and is not a comprehensive disclosure of its full scope or all of its features.

Micro ramps have been proposed as passive boundary layer control features to reduce the boundary layer thickening and separation that are typical in a wide range of boundary layer control applications. Such features can produce vortices whose axes of rotation are aligned with the streamwise direction and pull high energy fluid from the free stream deep into the boundary layer to avoid separation and other unwanted effects. The more energetic boundary layer that results has a reduced shape factor and is less susceptible to thickening and separation produced by an adverse pressure gradient.

The standard micro ramp design generally referred to at was introduced by Anderson et al. and consists of triangular features as shown in . The flow U is initially deflected by the micro ramp before it passes over angled dumps on each side of the feature. As seen in a counter rotating vortex pair is produced the size and strength of which depends on the height of the feature h and the half angle of the triangle A.

Still referring to these counter rotating vortices are illustrated from a downstream location looking in the upstream direction at the rearward faces of the micro ramp . Of critical importance is the behavior of these streamwise vortices as they propagate downstream. Note that the effect F of vortex on vortex is to push vortex in the upward direction and that the same is true for the effect F of vortex on vortex . The effect of the wall on the vortex pair will be the same as the effect from an image vortex pair which is a reflection of the real vortices across the wall. The image vortex pair is shown by the dotted lines in . It can then be seen that the effect of the wall is to pull the vortex pair toward each other which has the detrimental effect of causing the opposite signed vorticity in the streamwise vortices to interdiffuse and cancel thereby reducing the vortex strengths as they propagate downstream.

Thus the effect of the vortex vortex interaction in a conventional design is to drive the vortex pair up out of the boundary layer and the effect of the wall is to pull the vortex pair together. Since the initially separate vortices are counter rotating the strength of vortex cancels the strength of vortex as the pair is drawn together. As the vortex pair propagates downstream then they are located in an undesirable position above or within the boundary layer with their strength diminished. It would be desirable for exactly the opposite interactions to take place as the vortices move downstream the vortex pair should remain separated remain close to the wall and preferably remain within the boundary layer.

In other words each individual micro ramp creates a pair of streamwise vortices that cause the resulting vortex pair to naturally lift upward as a consequence of the mutual Biot Savart induced interaction between the two vortices. This in turn causes the vortices to quickly lift out of the boundary layer reducing their efficacy in controlling the boundary layer. Moreover the effect of the wall on the resulting streamwise vortices is a further Biot Savart induced interaction with their image vortices that causes the vortices to move toward each other and thereby reduce their strengths through interdiffusion thus further reducing their efficacy in controlling the boundary layer. It is both these aspects of such prior art embedded passive boundary layer control devices that limit their efficacy and that the disclosed new devices are able to overcome to achieve substantially greater efficacy.

According to the principles of the present teachings in some embodiments ramp like vortex generators are provided that can be mounted on any surface such as the wing of an airplane the inlet to a propulsion system the hull of a ship or any other surface over which a fluid moves when the objective is to minimize drag irreversibility losses or other performance penalties that can occur for reasons such as boundary layer separation or other undesirable boundary layer properties. The disclosed devices act to passively induce streamwise vortices in the boundary layer thereby transferring high momentum fluid toward the surface in such a way as to alter the shape of the velocity profile within the boundary layer and thereby avoid or delay separation or alter other properties of the boundary layer. Moreover the disclosed devices can achieve these beneficial effects with lower performance penalties than prior art devices can.

Further areas of applicability will become apparent from the description provided herein. The description and specific examples in this summary are intended for purposes of illustration only and are not intended to limit the scope of the present disclosure.

Corresponding reference numerals indicate corresponding parts throughout the several views of the drawings.

Example embodiments will now be described more fully with reference to the accompanying drawings. Example embodiments are provided so that this disclosure will be thorough and will fully convey the scope to those who are skilled in the art. Numerous specific details are set forth such as examples of specific components devices and methods to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the present disclosure. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that specific details need not be employed that example embodiments may be embodied in many different forms and that neither should be construed to limit the scope of the disclosure.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular example embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting. As used herein the singular forms a an and the may be intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. The terms comprises comprising including and having are inclusive and therefore specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof. The method steps processes and operations described herein are not to be construed as necessarily requiring their performance in the particular order discussed or illustrated unless specifically identified as an order of performance. It is also to be understood that additional or alternative steps may be employed.

When an element or layer is referred to as being on engaged to connected to or coupled to another element or layer it may be directly on engaged connected or coupled to the other element or layer or intervening elements or layers may be present. In contrast when an element is referred to as being directly on directly engaged to directly connected to or directly coupled to another element or layer there may be no intervening elements or layers present. Other words used to describe the relationship between elements should be interpreted in a like fashion e.g. between versus directly between adjacent versus directly adjacent etc. . As used herein the term and or includes any and all combinations of one or more of the associated listed items.

Although the terms first second third etc. may be used herein to describe various elements components regions layers and or sections these elements components regions layers and or sections should not be limited by these terms. These terms may be only used to distinguish one element component region layer or section from another region layer or section. Terms such as first second and other numerical terms when used herein do not imply a sequence or order unless clearly indicated by the context. Thus a first element component region layer or section discussed below could be termed a second element component region layer or section without departing from the teachings of the example embodiments.

Spatially relative terms such as inner outer beneath below lower above upper and the like may be used herein for ease of description to describe one element or feature s relationship to another element s or feature s as illustrated in the figures. Spatially relative terms may be intended to encompass different orientations of the device in use or operation in addition to the orientation depicted in the figures. For example if the device in the figures is turned over elements described as below or beneath other elements or features would then be oriented above the other elements or features. Thus the example term below can encompass both an orientation of above and below. The device may be otherwise oriented rotated 90 degrees or at other orientations and the spatially relative descriptors used herein interpreted accordingly.

Prior art vortex generators including the micro ramp design of the prior art show promise under certain design conditions with particular benefit coming from reductions in the peak spanwise averaged displacement thickness. They provide means for passively controlling various aspects of boundary layers in a wide range of applications including shock boundary layer interactions SBLI and numerous others. Among such vortex generators micro ramp designs of the prior art are particularly noteworthy for their structural robustness which provides notable advantages over other more fragile or complicated boundary layer control concepts. However the beneficial effects of such micro ramp designs and other prior art vortex generators are comparatively modest and they produce various detrimental effects that may make them unacceptable for certain applications. For these reasons prior art vortex generators in general and especially micro ramp vortex generators of the prior art require substantial improvement of their efficiency and effectiveness.

The present teachings provide an alternative micro ramp design that produces a stream wise vortex pair whose sense of rotation is opposite that of the standard micro ramp that is counter rotating vortices rotating opposite of the aforementioned standard design and that preserves the appealing simplicity and robustness of the standard design. The new design is suitably termed the inverse micro ramp and generally designated at reference . Empirical results are provided with a number of metrics suggesting considerably improved performance.

With particular reference to the inverse micro ramp design of the present teachings is illustrated schematically from a perspective view and a downstream vantage looking upstream at the rearward angled faces of the feature . Inverse micro ramp design comprises a pair of ramp like features that together are used to achieve the advantages of the present teachings. Each of the pair of ramp like features is symmetrical and in mirrored relationship to the other.

Similar to the standard design the incoming boundary layer U is initially deflected by ramp like features before passing over two angled dumps . In some embodiments the faces on the outward boundaries of the ramp like features are parallel with the streamwise flow velocity U and the two angled dumps form a V in the interior of the geometry. Note that the appealing characteristics of the standard ramps particularly their simple and robust design remain intact.

In some embodiments each ramp like feature of inverse micro ramp comprises a ramp face being generally planar and extending from a first edge at a height generally flush with wall to a second edge or point downstream of first edge and inclined a height h above wall . Second edge or point can be generally parallel to the plane of wall when in the form of an edge and offset therefrom the height h. Although ramp face is illustrated and described as being planar it should be appreciated that other shapes are anticipated.

Angled dumps and faces of ramp like feature downwardly extend from ramp face to wall . Angled dumps and faces are generally illustrated as being orthogonal to ramp face and in some embodiments wall . However it should also be appreciated that in some embodiments angled dumps and faces may form an angle other than 90 relative to ramp face or wall .

Still referring to in some embodiments ramp like features each further defines a trailing edge or surface formed by the joining of angled dump and the associated face .

Turning now to the behavior of the streamwise vortex pair as it propagates downstream using the inverse micro ramp design of the present teachings and in particular how the vortex vortex interactions affect this path attention should be directed to . It should be recognized that the vortex vortex interaction of the present teachings produces a downwardly combining streamwise vortex pair opposite of the prior art design. Specifically the effect of vortex on vortex F is to push vortex in the downward direction and the same is true for the effect of vortex on vortex F. The effect of the wall on the vortex pair is deduced by considering an image vortex pair which is a reflection of the real vortices across the wall and shown in dotted lines in . These image vortices produce a further Biot Savart induced interaction that causes the vortices to move away from each other thereby increasing the spacing between them. This effect in turn reduces the interdiffusion of the oppositely signed vorticity that comprises these streamwise vortices and in so doing acts to preserve their strengths as measured by their respective circulation. Both the direct effect produced by the Biot Savart induced interaction between vortices and and the indirect wall effect produced by Biot Savart induced interaction of each of vortices and with its respective image vortex act to increase the efficacy of the resulting streamwise vortices in controlling the boundary layer.

In other words the vortex pair produced by these angled dumps is shown schematically in . As a result of their sense of rotation the vortex vortex interaction and the effect of the wall force the vortices to remain separated from each other and to remain in close proximity to the wall. Thus such a design enables the vortex strength to persist further downstream of the features with the spanwise region controlled by the individual features being larger than with the standard design. Therefore not only do the inverse micro ramps perform their desired function better than the standard ramps but they do so with fewer individual elements because of their improved effectiveness downstream. Ultimately this can be translated into reduced drag related losses reduced thermodynamic performance losses and reduced fabrication expenses for the same or greater beneficial effect on controlling the boundary layer.

The nomenclature used for the defining dimensions of the inverse micro ramp is shown in and is analogous to that used for the standard micro ramp design . Each half of the inverse micro ramp has hypotenuse c interior angle A height h and inter feature spacing s.

To assist in providing relevant comparisons to the previously described standard micro ramp while also illustrating certain elements of an optimal configuration the following further nonlimiting illustration is provided. For the sake of this illustration we maintain three of the defining dimensions constant in the inverse micro ramp design that is the nominal flow deflection angle the ratio c h and the upstream location x. The flow deflection angle is given by

For the sake of this discussion the performances of the standard micro ramps and the inverse micro ramps are evaluated and compared as they pertain to a specific instance of passive vortex generators for boundary layer control in this case control of shock boundary layer interactions. However it should be appreciated that the principles of the present teachings should not be regarded as being limited to shock boundary layer interactions. The following shock boundary layer interaction discussion is merely illustrative of the principles of the present teachings.

Spanwise imaging planes are used to visualize the flow field and the streamwise vortices contained therein. shows the streamwise vorticity fields y z produced by the standard micro ramp and the inverse micro ramp at the same downstream location in this case upstream of a 7.75 deg interaction at x 2.5. The inverse micro ramp design produces vortices with over twice the peak vorticity contained in those produced by the standard ramps . Additionally the vortices produced by the inverse micro ramps are located considerably farther apart and deeper in the boundary layer offering qualitative but convincing evidence that the design objectives of the present teachings are realized. In what follows these inferences are quantitatively assessed.

It is apparent from and also from that the overall vorticity produced by the inverse micro ramps is situated deeper in the boundary layer and at larger z values as compared to the vorticity produced by the standard design. These observations are quantified through calculation of the vorticity centroids shown in for all three interactions with solid symbols representing vortices produced by the inverse micro ramps and open symbols representing vortices produced by the standard micro ramp design . The vortices produced by inverse micro ramps are separated in the spanwise direction by an average of 0.83 compared to 0.37 for those produced by the standard ramps . In the wall normal direction the vortex pair produced by the inverse micro ramps have centroids at y 0.22 while those produced by the standard ramps have centroids at y 0.37. It should be understood that the latter average was computed after excluding the highest two points in .

Thus the inverse micro ramp design provides an approximately two fold increase in both peak vorticity and spreading distance accompanied by an approximately two fold decrease in the wall normal location. These compelling results are summarized in Table 1.

With the sense of vorticity produced by the ramps now reversed the vortex induced downwash now occurs along the tunnel centerline. The evolution of the resulting streamwise velocity fields y z are shown in spanwise planes in for the 7.75 deg 10.0 deg and 12.0 deg deflection angles respectively. The powerful vortex induced downwash along the centerline convects high velocity air deep into the boundary layer and enables a core of such high energy fluid to pass through the interaction relatively unaffected by the shock. Conversely in the vortex induced upwash regions which occur at larger z values the low velocity fluid originally in the boundary layer is convected toward the free stream. One might note at least qualitatively that while the effect on the streamwise velocity in the downwash region is considerably greater in the present case as compared to the standard micro ramps the effect in the upwash regions appear comparable.

Further insight into this regard is provided through inspection of the streamwise velocity profiles offered in for all three shock strengths. As is known for standard micro ramp cases the centerline and off centerline profiles have equal velocities at large y values deviate in the central region of the boundary layer and then approach equal values in the near wall region. Owing to the two fold increase in vortex strength the deviations in the present case are substantially larger than for the standard micro ramps.

Comparison between the two controlled boundary layers and the uncontrolled boundary layer is offered in at the x 1.1 location in the 10.0 deg interaction. Caution is encouraged when comparing the vortex induced upwash regions denoted by the circular points since in the case of the inverse micro ramps the full degree of upwash has not been resolved. The flow is relatively unaffected by the method of control for y 0.75 with large variation being observed closer to the wall. Using the standard micro ramps the benefit provided by the vortex induced downwash region is approximately equal to the loss produced by the corresponding upwash region. With much larger vorticity magnitude as produced by the inverse micro ramps the gain in the downwash region of the vortex pair significantly outweighs any loss in the presently resolved upwash region.

These observations are seen more completely through the spanwise measurements of the modified shape factors H . show these measurements for the uncontrolled and controlled boundary layers in locations upstream and and downstream and of the interaction for all three shock strengths. Recall that in general a smaller shape factor is indicative of high momentum being located close to the wall and therefore represents a boundary layer that is less susceptible to detachment. Note also that H 1 is the lower bound and describes the case of a uniform velocity profile everywhere equal to the free stream velocity u. Finally one should recall that due to the lack of a uniform free stream in the presence of an incident shockwave the numerical values of H are rendered somewhat moot and therefore comparison between figures is irrelevant. Instead accurate inferences can only be made through comparisons contained within each individual figure.

With these precautions in mind the effect of the inverse micro ramps is substantial for all shock strengths. The effects on the boundary layer upstream of the present teachings are comparable to the effects of the standard micro ramp design . Downstream of the interaction however the inverse micro ramps provide a substantial reduction in the shape factor within the available field of view. Additionally while the standard micro ramp design provides little or no benefit to the shape factor for the 10.0 deg and 12.0 deg interactions the inverse micro ramps provide substantial benefit even in these stronger interactions.

One quantification of the net effect of the micro ramps is the spanwise averaged displacement thickness which can be investigated as a function of the streamwise coordinate. For all incident shock strengths it has been found that the net displacement thickness is reduced by the inverse micro ramps at all streamwise locations further demonstrating the potential utility of the design. Table 2 shows the maximum net displacement thickness for each interaction together with the percent reduction provided by the two boundary layer control techniques. The results suggest the inverse micro ramp design effectively reduces the peak boundary layer thickness through the SBLI by as much as 34 over the uncontrolled interaction. Even in the strongest interaction a 17 reduction is achieved demonstrating a four fold improvement over the reduction produced by the standard micro ramp design .

The low fluctuation levels in the downwash regions result from elimination of any instantaneous recirculation bubbles that might appear in the interaction and thus the otherwise free shear layer is constrained at the bottom wall boundary. Thus extrapolating this result across a large span the vortex generator arrays will produce an SBLI with alternating regions of fully attached flow in the vortex induced downwash regions and intermittent recirculating or detached flow in the vortex induced upwash regions. By extension then the potentially large recirculation structure which has been demonstrated experimentally many times should be divided into much smaller cells and it would be expected that the downstream dimension of such cells would be on the order of their spanwise dimension. Similarly the previously large scale oscillations associated with the large recirculation zone should be reduced to localized effects with correspondingly reduced amplitudes.

As previously noted vortex generator arrays will produce regions of alternating vortex induced upwash and downwash across the span. Using shock boundary layer interactions as one of many flow fields suited for passive control by micro ramps the discussion herein and particularly and showed that the vortex induced downwash produced by suitably designed micro ramp vortex generators can dramatically improve the boundary layer profile as it evolves through regions of strong adverse pressure gradients. In the complementary upwash regions meanwhile the effects of the vortex generators are not significantly worse than in an uncontrolled scenario. When these effects are integrated across the span the net effects of the incident shock on the boundary layer can be considerably reduced. Table 2 summarizes this quantitatively.

Effects of the micro ramp vortex generators on the stability of shock boundary layer interaction can also be inferred. indicate that the fluctuations of the interaction are dramatically reduced in the presence of a sufficiently strong downwash. In the upwash regions the turbulence levels are comparable in size and scope to those from the uncontrolled interactions but in the downwash regions the fluctuation levels are reduced. The low fluctuation levels in the downwash regions result from elimination of any instantaneous recirculation bubbles that might appear in the interaction and thus the otherwise free shear layer is constrained at the bottom wall boundary thus reducing large scale oscillations of the interaction.

Accordingly it should be appreciated that the present teachings provide numerous beneficial aspects including approximately two fold improvements over the standard design in several key metrics namely the maximum vorticity total circulation spanwise separation and the wall normal location. The resulting effects on the flow field make the inverse micro ramps strong candidates for augmenting or eliminating active boundary layer control techniques and for achieving the same or greater beneficial effects in passively controlling a boundary layer with lower performance penalties while maintaining other practical considerations than is possible with prior art passive vortex generators.

The foregoing description of the embodiments has been provided for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention. Individual elements or features of a particular embodiment are generally not limited to that particular embodiment but where applicable are interchangeable and can be used in a selected embodiment even if not specifically shown or described. The same may also be varied in many ways. Such variations are not to be regarded as a departure from the invention and all such modifications are intended to be included within the scope of the invention.

