---

title: Method of predicting chemotherapeutic responsiveness of cancer
abstract: Disclosed is a method of predicting clinical tumor outcome by providing gene expression from a tumor sample. The method utilizes a novel genetic screen to identify genes that contribute to chemotherapeutic responsiveness, using formalin fixed paraffin embedded clinical samples of epithelial cancer, specifically serous ovarian cancer. The method is useful in predicting tumor responsiveness to chemotherapeutics, including alkylating agents, cisplatin, antimetabolites, plant alkaloids, and antitumor antibiotics. A microarray screen showed formalin fixed paraffin embedded samples can identify genes related to chemotherapeutic response with 86% efficiency.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09442116&OS=09442116&RS=09442116
owner: University of South Florida
number: 09442116
owner_city: Tampa
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100423
---
This application is a continuation of prior filed International Application Serial Number PCT US2008 080939 filed Oct. 23 2008 which claims priority to U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 981 963 filed Oct. 23 2007 which is hereby incorporated by reference into this disclosure.

This invention was made with Government support under Grant No. DAMD17 02 2 0051 awarded by the Department of Defense. The Government has certain rights in the invention

This invention relates to cancer diagnosis methods. Specifically the invention is a method of determining the response of a cancer to chemotherapy using gene expressions of formalin fixed paraffin embedded tissue samples.

A cornerstone of personalized cancer care will be the ability to predict how an individual patient will respond to a therapeutic intervention. Recent reports suggest that gene expression profiles have the potential to discriminate between patients who will and will not respond to specific chemotherapeutic agents. However most existing gene expression predictive signatures have been developed and tested in fresh frozen FF tissues and their utility in formalin fixed paraffin embedded FFPE samples commonly encountered in clinical practice is unknown.

Formalin fixation and wax embedding is a universal tissue processing procedure allowing samples to be cut into thin sections i.e. a few microns stored at room temperatures indefinitely. Formalin fixed paraffin embedded FFPE archival clinical specimens are invaluable in discovery of prognostic and therapeutic targets for diseases such as cancer. Acquisition of appropriate clinical samples remains a fundamental problem in diagnosis. Tissue biopsies are difficult to obtain and therefore are too valuable to be used in global diagnosis development in most instances. A vast archive of tissue samples exists for every conceivable condition as formalin fixed FF and paraffin embedded PE samples. FFPE samples are prepared by incubating the tissue in a buffered formalin solution of 3.7 w v formaldehyde and 10 15 methanol forming intra and inter molecular covalent crosslinks between proteins RNA and DNA Fox C. H. et al. Formaldehyde fixation. 1985 33 845 53 Kunkel G. R. et al. Contact site cross linking agents. 1981 34 3 13 . Afterwards the samples are embedded with paraffin which enables FFPE samples have been used to diagnose and stage tumors and evaluate protein expression by immunohistochemistry IHC and in situ hybridization.

Throughout a century of use numerous archival paraffin embedded tissue banks have been established worldwide. These tissue banks are invaluable resources of tissues for translational studies of cancer and various other diseases. Accessibility of macromolecules in the samples is a critical issue as FFPE samples are traditionally limited to IHC.

Recent developments in extraction methodologies have opened FFPE samples to new analyses like MS. An antigen retrieval AR technique by boiling FFPE samples in water was shown to enhance IHC by circumventing the formalin fixation and is now the typical approach for IHC staining of FFPE samples Shi et al. 1991 . Recently AR and proteinase K SDS treatment has been shown useful in extracting nucleic acids Hood et al. 2006 Dubeau et al. 1986 . These techniques rely on either strong heating of FFPE samples or enzyme digestion.

Proteomic studies of FFPE samples have been severely limited due to the formaldehyde induced crosslinking which renders proteins insoluble and unsuitable for biochemical extraction and analysis. For example crosslinking prevents extraction of proteins from FFPE samples for use in protein analysis such as Western blots. The advances in FFPE processing techniques have yet to overcome these obstacles since many proteins are still undetectable Crockett D. et al. Identification of proteins from formalin fixed paraffin embedded cells by LC MS MS. 2005 85 1405 1415 .

A predictor for ovarian cancer response to platinum based therapy is needed for use with stable patient samples such as formalin fixed paraffin embedded samples.

Disclosed is a method of predicting clinical tumor outcome by providing gene expression from a tumor sample Shedden K. et al. Gene expression based survival prediction in lung adenocarcinoma a multi site blinded validation study. Nat. Med. 14 8 822 7. 2008 . The gene expression may be obtained from any number of means known in the art including without limitation Polymerase Chain Reaction ChIp gene array microarrays or quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction Q PCR and reverse transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction rt PCR . The present method utilizes a novel genetic screen to identify genes that contribute to chemotherapeutic responsiveness using formalin fixed paraffin embedded clinical samples. A microarray screen showed formalin fixed paraffin embedded samples can identify genes related to chemotherapeutic response with 86 efficiency. At least one threshold value is defined for classifying the gene expression levels. The extracted biological material is selected from the group consisting of DNA RNA protein derivatives thereof and fragments thereof. As used herein derivatives refer to processed variants of DNA RNA or proteins which includes without limiting the scope of the invention transcripts. In certain embodiments the disclosed method uses RNA to determine gene expression. Gene expression levels are determined from the biological material in the clinical sample and compared to the gene expression of the clinical sample with a gene expression of known clinical outcome indicative of tumor outcome. In some embodiments the gene expression of known clinical outcome was constructed by correlating gene expression levels to clinical outcome classifying gene expression levels by clinical outcome into gene expression groups comparing variance between the gene expression groups and fitting a statistical model to the gene expression groups. In specific embodiments the statistical model is a binary regression model.

As such disclosed is a method of predicting clinical tumor prognosis by extracting a biological material from a formalin fixed paraffin embedded clinical sample. Also disclosed is a method of predicting clinical tumor responsiveness to chemotherapeutic treatment from a formalin fixed paraffin embedded clinical sample. A method is also disclosed for predicting clinical tumor responsiveness to chemotherapeutic treatment of ovarian cancer from a formalin fixed paraffin embedded clinical sample. In some embodiments the disclosed methods are useful for predicting without limiting the scope of the invention tumor prognosis of epithelial cancer and in specific embodiments serous ovarian cancer. In more specific embodiments the method is useful for predicting tumor responsiveness to chemotherapeutic treatment selected from the group consisting of alkylating agent antimetabolite plant alkaloid and antitumor antibiotic. In further embodiments the method is useful for predicting tumor responsiveness to cisplatin.

The disclosed methods utilize Polymerase Chain Reaction ChIp gene array microarrays reverse transcriptase Polymerase Chain Reaction and quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction to determine gene expression in some embodiments. In certain embodiments the methods further generated a probeset list and tested the plurality of gene expressions in the clinical sample for gene expression using the probeset list. In these embodiments the probeset list was generated by providing a first probeset and testing the first probeset against gene expression data for a tumor cell with known chemotherapeutic outcome wherein the gene expression data is compared to the known chemotherapeutic outcome. In some embodiments of the disclosed methods the chemotherapeutic treatment is selected from the group consisting of alkylating agent antimetabolite plant alkaloid and antitumor antibiotic and in more specific embodiments the chemotherapeutic is cisplatin.

 Patient is used to describe an animal preferably a human to whom treatment is administered including prophylactic treatment with the compositions of the present invention.

Disclosed is a tumor prognosis predictor based on gene expression signatures of cancer cells. Gene expression data is used to identify a patient s tumor response to chemotherapeutic intervention. The invention uses cumulative expression information from a series of genes involved in the regulation of the cell cycle and the mitotic process. This information is then used to categorize tumor samples based on the chemotherapeutic responsiveness using a mathematical model and gene expression data derived from microarrays or quantitative Polymerase Chain Reaction Q PCR data.

183 FFPE advanced stage III IV serous ovarian cancers were identified obtained during primary surgical cytoreduction from patients who went on to receive platinum based chemotherapy. Archival formalin fixed paraffin embedded tissue samples were obtained from the processed tissue as follows. Immediately after excision from the patients samples were routinely fixed in 10 neutral buffered formalin average period of fixation was 24 hr at room temperature RT . Fixed tissues were processed routinely through dehydration in graded ethanol clearing in xylene and embedding in paraffin blocks using automatic processing and embedding equipment.

RNA was extracted using the High Pure RNA Paraffin Kit Rosche Diagnostics GmbH Mannheim Germany . Briefly each paraffin block was cut at 5 10 m and xylene added for 5 min. Absolute ethanol was added to the sample and spun at 12 000 g the supernatant removed and pellet allowed to dry. The samples were lysed using a 10 SDS Proteinase K buffer overnight at 55 C. Proteins were precipitated using an ethanol buffer solution and proteins collected as provided.

The extracted RNA was amplified using the WE Ovation System NuGen . Total RNA was measured and subjected to reverse transcriptase RT PCR using DNA RNA chimeric primers. The RNA was fragmented with RNase H forming priming sites for PCR. Amplification of the product formed double stranded cDNA and the resultant product was purified by centrifugation as provided. After amplification the samples were loaded on an Affymetrix 133 plus 2.0 GeneChip array and analyzed.

All hybridizations were carried out at 45 C. for 16 17 h with mixing on a rotisserie at 60 rpm. Following hybridization the solutions were removed and the arrays were rinsed with 1 MES. The arrays were washed and stained using the GeneChip Fluidics station protocol EukGE WS2 which consists of 10 cycles of 2 mixes per cycle with non stringent wash buffer 6 SSPE 0.01 Tween 20 at 25 C. followed by 4 cycles of 15 mixes per cycle with stringent wash buffer 100 mM MES 0.1 M Na and 0.01 Tween 20 at 50 C. The probe arrays were stained for 10 min in streptavidin phycoerythrin solution SAPE 1 MES solution 10 g ml SAPE Molecular Probes Eugene Oreg. and 2 g l acetylated BSA Invitrogen at 25 C. then washed for 10 cycles of 4 mixes per cycle at 25 C. The probe arrays were treated for 10 min with an antibody solution 1 MES solution 2 g l acetylated BSA 0.1 g l normal goat IgG Sigma Chemical St. Louis Mo. 3 g l biotinylated goat anti streptavidin antibody Vector Laboratories Burlingame Calif. at 25 C. followed by a second staining for 10 min in SAPE at 25 C. The final wash was 15 cycles of 4 mixes per cycle at 30 C. with non stringent wash buffer. The probe arrays were then scanned once at 1.56 m resolution using the Affymetrix GeneChip Scanner 3000 or at 3 m resolution using the Affymetrix GeneChip Scanner 2500.

Arrays were visually scanned for any defects or scanning artifacts that might compromise the final results. 87 of the younger samples were divided into a training set n 44 with the remaining samples held out as an external validation datasets containing similar microarray data test n 43 .

Training set GeneChip results were subjected to ANOVA and Binary regression analysis to develop and test gene expression profiles associated with ovarian cancer platinum responsiveness.

 Collet 1994 where y 1 if the response of interest is observed for the i pis the probability the iindividual is responsive is the K vector of unknown parameters x x . . . x the K vector of known covariates associated to the iindividual and F any transformation for 0 and 1. Thus 

The probe set predictor shown in was used to test the patient samples. The Predictor correctly identified 27 33 82 platinum complete responders CR and 10 11 91 incomplete responders IR for an overall accuracy of 37 44 84 in leave one out cross validation. In the external validation set the probe set predictor correctly identified 26 32 81 CR and 9 11 82 IR samples with an overall accuracy of 35 43 81 .

Microarray expression analysis of FFPE samples identified genes that influence ovarian cancer platinum responsiveness and is useful in predicting chemoresponsiveness in a chemo predictive assay with clinical utility.

In the preceding specification all documents acts or information disclosed does not constitute an admission that the document act or information of any combination thereof was publicly available known to the public part of the general knowledge in the art or was known to be relevant to solve any problem at the time of priority.

The disclosures of all publications cited above are expressly incorporated herein by reference each in its entirety to the same extent as if each were incorporated by reference individually.

While there has been described and illustrated specific embodiments of a tumor prognosis prediction method it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that variations and modifications are possible without deviating from the broad spirit and principle of the present invention. It is also to be understood that the following claims are intended to cover all of the generic and specific features of the invention herein described and all statements of the scope of the invention which as a matter of language might be said to fall therebetween. Now that the invention has been described.

