---

title: Method of laser vibration defect analysis
abstract: A method for locating defects in a target includes subjecting the target to an ultrasonic vibration. A first laser beam is then transmitted to the target and a reflection is received. A vibration signal is produced from the reflection that gives the target's response to the ultrasonic vibration. A digital image is produced of the target that includes the region of the first laser beam reflection. The digital images are overlaid with the vibration signal to provide overlaid data. The overlaid data is tested to determine a probability of the overlaid data being non-random. The probability is compared against a threshold to indicate a potential area of concern that may include defects.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08483977&OS=08483977&RS=08483977
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08483977
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100604
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention relates generally to a laser measurement tool that measures vibrations at locations of interest in response to an ultrasonic operator and more particularly provides useful information with large sample rates in highly dynamic vibration noisy environments and or relatively solid structures.

According to a report released in 2005 by the American Society of Civil Engineers ASCE a total of about 160 570 bridges or just over one quarter of the nation s approximately 590 750 bridge inventory were rated structurally deficient or functionally obsolete. The basic cause of failure is metal fatigue brought on by many possible intermediate causes. Every State has a large number of bridges. For example Rhode Island has about 753 bridges California has about 24 028 bridges and Texas has about 49 504 bridges. Bridges like any fabricated structure can fail for many reasons. Prevention of such failures is of paramount importance.

Many patents attempt to detect structural failures by a general method called Structural Health Monitoring SHM a methodology that involves the placement of sensors inside a structure which can communicate structural status to inspectors. However the location of the sensor s is problematic. For example a crack could form almost any place in a gusset plate. Moreover when a fatigue crack becomes visible only a small percentage of the life remains perhaps as little as about 10 . The likely list of causes for bridge disasters include the following fatigue cracks corroded gusset plates frozen bearings overweight construction materials weather de icing materials and an unstable bridge deck.

It is highly desirable that new technologies be available to local state and federal agencies for quickly scanning a large number of bridges to locate any failure points to avoid potentially devastating disasters.

The following U.S. Patents describe various prior art systems that may be related to the above and or other problems 

U.S. Pat. No. 7 286 964 issued Oct. 23 2007 to Kim discloses methods and recordable media for monitoring structural health conditions. A method is disclosed for interrogating for damage of a host structure using a diagnostic network patch DNP system having patches. An interrogation module partitions the plurality of patches in subgroups and measures the sensor signals generated and received by actuator and sensor patches respectively. Then a process module loads sensor signal data to identify wave modes determine the time of arrival of the modes and generate a tomographic image. It also determines distribution of other structural condition indices to generate tomographic images of the host structure. A set of tomographic images can be stacked to generate a hyperspectral tomography cube. A classification module generates a codebook based on K mean Learning Vector Quantization algorithm and uses a neural fuzzy inference system to determine the type of damages of the host structure.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 281 428 issued Oct. 16 2007 to Kim discloses interrogation systems for monitoring structural health conditions. An interrogation system includes at least one wave generator for generating a wave signal and optical fiber sensors applied to a structure. The interrogation system also includes at least one electronic module for generating an input sensor signal and sending the input sensor signal to the optical fiber sensors. Each optical fiber sensor impresses the wave signal onto the input sensor signal to generate an output sensor signal that is frequency shifted from the input sensor signal. The electronic module generates an information signal in response to the output sensor signal. The interrogation system also includes a signal processing unit and a relay switch array module that has relay switches. Each relay switch relays the information signal to the signal processing unit and the signal processing unit generates a digital sensor signal that is subsequently sent to a computer.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 277 573 issued Oct. 2 2007 to O Brien Jr. which is incorporated herein by reference discloses a multi stage method for automatically characterizing data sets containing data points which are each defined by measurements of three variables as either random or non random. A three dimensional Cartesian volume which is sized to contain all of a total number N of data points in the data set which is to be characterized. The Cartesian volume is partitioned into equal sized cubes wherein each cube may or may not contain a data point. A predetermined route is defined that goes through every cube one time and scores each cube as a one or a zero thereby producing a stream of ones and zeros. The number of runs is counted and utilized to provide a Runs Test which predicts if the N data points in any data set are random or nonrandom. Additional tests are used in conjunction with the Runs Test to increase the accuracy of characterization of each data set as random or nonrandom.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 267 008 issued Sep. 11 2007 to Gordon et al discloses a transducer for use in a structural health monitoring system that includes a single transducer element. The transducer includes a transmit assembly coupled to the single transducer element. This assembly is configured to produce a multi cycle square wave drive signal for stimulating the transducer. Additionally a transmit receive switch coupled to the single transducer element is provided. This assembly is configured to isolate the drive signal from the receive assembly used to sense the electrical signal generated from any received elastic waves.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 246 521 issued Jul. 24 2007 U.S. Pat. No. 7 197 931 issued Apr. 3 2007 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 117 742 issued Oct. 10 2006 to Kim disclose sensors and systems for monitoring structural health conditions. A device is provided for monitoring structural health conditions including a dielectric substrate a piezoelectric device for actuating and or sensing waves a molding layer deposited over the piezoelectric device a cover layer deposited over the molding layer and a hoop layer surrounding the piezoelectric device and being attached to the substrate. The device further includes an optical fiber coil sensor attached to the dielectric substrate where the coil sensor has a rolled optical fiber cable and a coating layer applied to the rolled optical fiber cable. A diagnostic patch network includes a plurality of patch sensors attached to a host structure and a bridge box connected to the patch sensors. The bridge box sends information of structural health conditions to and receives power from a ground control system using a wireless communication technique.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 080 555 issued Jul. 25 2006 to Austin et al discloses a distributed real time health monitoring system for monitoring of acoustic emission signals from different regions of a structure such as aircraft or spacecraft structures. The health monitoring system has its analysis and prognosis intelligence distributed out to the local regions being monitored and therefore does not require extensive cabling systems to carry the high bandwidth information characteristic of acoustic emission.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 075 424 issued Jul. 11 2006 to Sundaresan et al discloses a sensor array for non destructively monitoring a structure to detect a critical structural event. The sensor array includes a plurality of discrete sensor nodes each of the discrete sensor nodes producing an electrical signal in response to a structural event. A signal adder is electrically connected to the plurality of discrete sensor nodes for receiving and combining the electrical signal from each of the discrete sensor nodes to form a single sensor array output signal. A signal processing module then receives and processes the single sensor output signal. In the preferred embodiment the signal processing module uses the time interval between the electrical signals from each of the discrete sensor nodes formed into a single sensor array output signal to calculate the location of the critical structural event. Also in the preferred embodiment a data collection system is located downstream of the sensor processing module.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 826 982 issued Dec. 7 2004 to O Brien et al which is incorporated herein by reference discloses a method and apparatus for detecting and monitoring fractures in a structure by monitoring acoustic energy transmitted within the structure by receiving continuously over a period of time electrical signals from a plurality of acoustic transducers carried by the structure in a pulse processor to form data bursts from pulses in the signals and deriving for each of a plurality of the data bursts delta t values representing the differences between burst arrival times at each sensor the delta t values forming a delta t pattern and generating a damage indication signal when the delta t pattern is repeated to a predetermined degree.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 399 939 issued Jun. 4 2002 to Sundaresan et al discloses a sensor array for nondestructively monitoring a structure to detect a critical event. The sensor array includes a plurality of discrete sensor nodes each of the discrete sensor nodes producing an electrical signal in response to a structural event. In the preferred embodiment the sensor nodes include a plurality of piezoceramic fibers arranged in a planar array in which the fibers are aligned substantially parallel to each other each of the fibers having a plurality of polarized regions that are substantially oriented according to their polarity in either a series parallel or combined arrangement of series and parallel orientations and an electrical interface connecting the plurality of polarized regions of each fiber in series with one another. A signal adder receives and combines the electrical signals from each of the discrete sensor nodes to form a single sensor array output signal. In the preferred embodiment the electrical interface further includes at least one electrical bus substantially aligned with the fibers and a signal processing module for receiving and processing the single sensor output signal. The signal processing module is linked through the digital data bus to a central processing unit. The plurality of discrete sensor nodes may further be divided into discrete subgroups each located at a different structural location to provide a degree of sensing and determining the location of the structural event. In the preferred embodiment the discrete sensor nodes are electrically connected in series thereby forming a continuous series connection between each of the discrete sensor nodes to improve the likelihood that a critical structural event will be detected.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 505 090 issued Apr. 9 1996 to Webster discloses an apparatus for non destructively inspecting for faults in or beneath the surface of structures such as debonds or delaminations in composite materials or cracks broken stringers delaminations and the like in semi monocoque structures which includes at least one spark gap discharge device displaced from the test object which focuses an acoustic pulse onto a small local area of the object for vibrationally exciting the surface of that area. A laser Doppler camera system also displaced from the test object directs a laser beam onto the excited area and derives from light energy reflected back from the excited area the velocity of out of surface displacement of and relaxation frequencies generated by the surface of the excited area and provides an indication of whether a fault is present in that area. Acoustic pulses and the laser beam are directed to successive local areas in synchronism according to a scanning pattern at each of which the reflected light energy is analyzed following which the acquired data is processed and visually displayed in a manner which clearly indicates the presence of a fault and its location and enables the operator to further analyze the data to ascertain the type and extent of the fault.

The article Model for continuously scanning ultrasound vibrometer sensing displacements of randomly rough vibrating surfaces by Ratilal et al. from the Journal of Acoustical Society of America February 2007 0001 4966 2007 121 2 863 16 discloses an analytic model for the time dependent ultrasound field reflected of a randomly rough vibrating surface for a continuously scanning ultrasound vibrometer system in bistatic configuration. The model incorporates the beam patterns of both the transmitting and the receiving ultrasound transducers and the statistical properties of the rough surface. Motions of the vibrometer over the randomly rough surface leads to time dependent scattering noise that causes a randomization of the received signal spectrum. Simulations with the model indicate that the surface displacement and velocity estimation are highly dependent upon the scan velocity and projected wavelength of the ultrasound vibrometer relative to the roughness height standard deviation and correlation length scales of the rough surface. The model is applied to determine limiting scan speeds for ultrasound vibrometer measuring ground displacements arising from acoustic or seismic excitation to be used in acoustic landmine confirmation sensing.

The above cited prior art does not disclose a laser vibration analyzer which provides useful large sample size measurements involved in scanning structures carried out in the dynamic environment of nature which includes the presence of vibrations background noise traffic noise transformer noise engine machinery noise seismic noise and other interferences inherent when making measurements in the real world including during operation. The solutions to the above described and or related problems have been long sought without success. Consequently those skilled in the art will appreciate the present invention that addresses the above and other problems.

One possible object of the present invention is to provide a laser measurement tool that can be utilized to scan a target which may include solid structures to produce large samples of vibrations of interest to aid in the detection of structural material faults in a highly dynamic environment e.g. a noisy environment.

These and other objects features and advantages of the present invention will become apparent from the drawings the descriptions given herein and the appended claims. However it will be understood that the above listed objects and advantages of the invention are intended only as an aid in understanding certain aspects of the invention are not intended to limit the invention in any way and do not form a comprehensive or exclusive list of objects features and advantages.

Accordingly the present invention provides a laser vibration analyzer for use in a noisy environment at a distance offset from a target. The laser vibration analyzer may comprise an ultrasonic transmitter operable to transmit an ultrasonic signal to the target and an ultra receiver operable to detect a reflected ultrasonic signal from the target. A laser vibrometer transmitter receiver is operable to produce a vibration signal responsive to vibrations produced in the target by the ultrasonic signal. A camera produces digital images of the target. A signal stabilizer removes extra pulses in the digital images produced by noise other than the ultrasonic signal. A processor overlays the digital images of the target with the vibration signal to provide overlaid data. A noise discrimination filter utilizes a selected probability to predict whether data points of the overlaid data is random or non random. The probability provides an indication of a possible structural defect.

The laser vibration analyzer may further comprise a laser listening device operable to produce an audio signal in response to the vibrations produced in the target by the ultrasonic signal sound generator. An adder is operable to add the filtered audio signal to the digital images and a switch is operable to selectively connect the filtered audio signal with the adder. In one embodiment the laser listening device comprises an infrared laser and detector.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a method for analyzing vibrations for use in a noisy environment at a distance offset from a target. The method may comprise steps such as transmitting an ultrasonic signal to the target transmitting a first laser beam to the target receiving a first reflection of the first laser beam and producing a vibration signal from the first reflection of the first laser beam responsive to vibrations produced in the target by the ultrasonic signal. Other steps may comprise producing digital images of the target removing noise from the digital images produced by noise other than the ultrasonic signal and overlaying the digital images of the target with the vibration signal to provide data points of overlaid data. The method may further comprise determining a probability of the data points of the overlaid data being random data points and non random. The probability provides an indication of a possible structural defect.

The method may further comprise transmitting a second laser to the target detecting a second reflection from the second laser and producing an audio signal in response to the vibrations produced in the target by the ultrasonic transmitter. The method may further comprise utilizing an infrared laser for the second laser.

The method may further comprise frequency filtering the audio signal to produce a filtered audio signal and utilizing a switch to selectively add the filtered audio signal to the digital images.

Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to there is shown a functional block diagram for laser vibration analyzer which provides a general overview of the inventive device and method.

One presently preferred embodiment of laser vibration analyzer may comprise several input processing nodes or sections. These nodes may generally correspond with functional blocks such as digital camera laser vibrometer sensor scanning laser ultrasonic sensor and laser transmitter and receiver .

Target is shown as a bridge but may be a wide range of different targets. Laser vibration analyzer has unlimited usage whether it is used for civilian medical or military applications. Many different types of structures may be analyzed. As one example the present invention is not limited to for example monocoque or semi monocoque structure as some prior art laser vibrometer systems are. The present invention may be utilized to gather large samples of dynamic measurements while the structure is in use. For example the present invention would not require shutting down bridges for testing but could be utilized while the bridges are in use.

The present invention provides a unique way to streamline data collection and analysis by means of a novel three dimensional spatial randomness assessment tool. In one possible embodiment application of this tool and providing pre processing filtering steps assures the probable success of the task. A noise discrimination tool as well as other significant features described hereinafter assures that the integrity of laser vibration analyzer is not compromised by the presence of vibrations background noise traffic noise transformer noise engine machinery noise seismic noise and other interferences inherent in the large sample task carried out in the dynamic environment of nature. Laser vibration analyzer accounts for dynamic conditions such as these and takes into account the associated structural and environmental variables of vibration noise and video signal stabilization constraints. The output of laser vibration analyzer can be either a position a velocity or an acceleration.

Camera is preferably a digital high resolution camera that is utilized while mapping an area of interest. Camera is used in conjunction with scanning laser and laser vibrometer sensor and can provide that the digital camera images are at the same position as the position being scanned by scanning laser . The produced digital images can also be utilized to help the investigator to pinpoint the location or locations that require attention.

Scanning laser is joined to laser vibrometer sensor for detecting a vibrational signal from the position being scanned. This vibrational signal is typically a velocity measurement obtained by Doppler analysis of the reflected laser beam from scanning laser . Other methods can be used such as by using return times for measuring a positional difference between the scanning laser and the position at two different times. The change in position over time can be used to give velocity. Another variation would include using well known techniques to obtain the acceleration at the position. Any of these methods could work for obtaining a vibrational signal. The scanning laser also allows calculation of the coordinates of the position being scanned.

Scanning laser and laser vibrometer sensor are a laser Doppler vibrometer used to focus a continuous laser beam onto a point on the structure e.g. target to be measured. The reflection from the structure can be processed with a commercial Doppler interferometer to provide a measure of the velocity of the structure along the axis of the laser beam. The laser beam can be scanned across the structure at distances up to 300 meters. The scan points can be preselected or selected in real time by the sensor system operator. As discussed hereinbefore the laser scan locations can be identified relative to the image of the structure obtained from the camera .

Different types of laser Doppler vibrometers can be used depending on the desired need. In one embodiment the laser vibrometer may utilize infrared light which is not affected by weather conditions such as clouds or fog.

Laser scanning speed control is adjustable. It is designed to compensate for the scanner movement whether the system is dynamic or static to ensure the system collects correct readings of the scanned area. The scanning may be continuously swept over the target or may proceed in a stepped manner where selected points on the target are sequentially scanned.

Each laser scan point signal acquisition is also synchronously timed to the ultrasound acoustic pulses produced by ultrasonic sensor . As with many transducers ultrasonic sensor is capable of both transmitting and receiving acoustic energy. The reaction of target to the ultrasound pulses may be measured by the laser at a series of particular points on the structure. A modal pattern of the structure motion can be generated by combining the signals recorded by the laser sensor at different points on the structure which may be utilized for detecting hot spots.

Ultrasonic sensor produces waves that penetrate objects subjected to vibration analyses due to design flaws or natural structure problems in order to determine the degree of stability and any inherited risks that could cause degradation to safety and or occasionally cause fatalities or monetary losses. The device can be used for other purposes e.g. to expose bunkers or tunnels that are either fabricated or exist naturally.

A more detailed functional block diagram view of ultrasonic sensor signal amplifier and process filter is shown in . One possible embodiment of ultrasonic sensor may comprise wave generator amplifier transducer TX transducer RX and detector receiver . Wave generator originates an ultrasound signal. The frequency of the signal is preferably adjustable to accommodate whether the system is mobile or not. Generally higher frequencies are generated when the system is moving. Thus the system may be adjustable to being mobile or stationary. Amplifier amplifies the signal to permit the signal being used over longer distances. The frequencies of the amplified signal are applied to transducer transmitter . On target target area is the particular point or position being scanned with the transmitted ultrasonic signal produced by transducer TX . In one embodiment the frequencies from the reflected ultrasonic wave are sensed and transformed to an electrical signal by transducer receiver . Detector Receiver circuitry detects and amplifies this electrical signal. The ultrasonic receiver and processing circuitry may be utilized independently of laser vibrometer sensor if that functionality is desired.

In one possible embodiment signal amplifier of may comprise two amplifier circuits and . Amplifier receives the unprocessed signal from the detector receiver . In this embodiment the output of the signal amplifier is provided as feedback into the input of amplifier for stability reasons. The output of signal from amplifier is gain compensated with electronics designed to compensate for the strength of the received signal. Amplifier may also comprise an adjustable variable gain control. The output signal from amplifier proceeds toward amplifier . Amplifier is utilized to convert the compensated signal to a pulse width modulation PWM signal. The two basic components that form this stage comprise frequency carrier waveform and amplifier . Amplifier node may also comprise an automatic gain control circuit.

Signal stabilizer conditioner provides circuitry that removes extra pulses inserted into the video signal due to the dynamic nature of the system. Thus the video signal is protected against corruption. This means that system vibration phase shift noise aliasing and other environmental issues that can cause degradation to the captured images can be nullified in order to provide clean video prior to data processing.

Laser can be optionally added for removing environmental noise and vibration from the analyzer . Laser can be a laser velocimeter capable of detecting generalized environmental noise from target . Laser can also be utilized as a listening device. It can be an infrared laser transmitting and receiving an infrared beam and reflection. This reflection being translated into an audible signal from an intended target. As one possible example the company Polytec GMBH and others produce this type of laser vibrometer.

High pass filter joined to laser provides an adjustment to the lower cutoff frequency of the input signal. It is expected to block low frequencies e.g. below 200 Hz. Such disrupted frequencies noises are produced by human activity or vehicular traffic electrical transformers operating engines wind and seismic activities. Those types of noise are unwanted background noise. The amplitude of those signals is preferably reduced by at least above 3 dB which amounts to about 70.71 of the input signal. High pass filter preserves the high frequency components and allows them to pass the filter. As the frequency increases the attenuation decreases. This maximizes ultrasonic frequencies.

For simplicity the filters may be made from passive components rather than active filters. When resistor capacitor passive components are utilized then high pass filter and low pass filter may preferably be swapped in location in the functional diagram configuration. However if inductors replace the capacitors then the current functional configuration may preferably be utilized. As an alternative active higher order filters can be used instead of passive filters to provide sharper cut off frequencies.

Preamplifier amplifies the signal that passes through high pass filter to ensure the amplitude is not degraded and maintains the quality of received audible sound. Low pass filter preserves the low frequencies and eliminates excessively high frequencies from passing.

Activating switch will cause the low pass filter to be by passed. This may be useful when the noise produced by the subject area under the test is not normal. This situation may occur with high speed winds and the like. Activating switch bypasses high pass filter . Switch might be utilized when calm weather conditions prevail or when there are no winds. The integration of high pass filter and low pass filter into laser vibration analyzer creates a wide band pass filter which acts as noise rejection filter outside the upper and lower frequency cutoffs.

Switch buffer amp and headphones provide a system for manually monitoring environmental noise. Buffer is needed to prevent the received audio sound amplitude from being reduced and impeding the input path signal from filter or preamp . Switch can be opened or closed based on operator need. Amplifier amplifies the received signal from buffer . The gain dB can be adjusted as needed. Head phone set permits an operator to listen to the received sound.

Weather sensor is utilized to obtain data and provide readouts for the wind speed temperature humidity and pressure. These readings are recorded by recorder and can be used to modify the collected data. All of these elements can play a significant role in vibrations. Based on readings from weather sensor indicating strong wind conditions various filtering actions can be performed. Switches and or may be opened or closed. Activation of switch allows removal of wind induced vibration from digital image output. Buffer is added to the system to avoid signal degradation which may otherwise occur during the noise rejection procedure. Adder sums signals from signal stabilizer conditioner and one way switch which can be selectively connected to buffer .

Error correction circuit which is shown in more detail in is utilized to ensure the signal is free of errors so that actual areas of interest that may indicate structural problems found in target are not compromised and that the chance of a false indication is reduced.

Referring now to there is shown a more detailed view of error correction circuit in . Error correction circuit operates on signals essentially originating from camera laser vibrometer sensor and laser listening device . The purpose of error correction circuit is to ensure the signal is free of errors and the signals from real existing detected hot spots or problem spots in target are not compromised.

The collective signals received from the adder and or laser vibrometer and or other sources shown in are processed to ensure errors are avoided using error avoidance and redundancy encoding circuit which is capable of handling the various types of input e.g. digital images frequency information and audio information. Receiving return signal provides an indication whether a suitable signal is received. If not then laser vibrometer sensor scanning speed can be adjusted.

Error detection circuit detects errors that are encountered by the system and allows the operator to make adjustments in some form such as scanning speed reduction and or increasing power to laser vibrometer sensor . If an error is detected by error detection circuit then error correction circuit corrects these errors.

Processor overlay receives and overlays or merges corrected data from laser vibrometer sensor with the video produced through high resolution camera . This results in a data file having X and Y Cartesian coordinates at least one visual data parameter and a vibration parameter such as velocity or acceleration. In one possible embodiment the digital high resolution camera and the laser scan point may be activated utilizing a single switch.

Noise discrimination filter can be operated in accord with the teachings of U.S. Pat. No. 7 277 573 issued to Francis J. O Brien Jr. which is incorporated herein by reference. Noise discrimination filter is required in order to process the incoming signals in a timely and efficient manner and to isolate noise from the real signals and provide an indication that a particular position is an area of concern.

The noise discrimination of U.S. Pat. No. 7 277 573 comprises a multi stage method that automatically characterizes data sets containing data points which are each defined by measurements of three variables as either random or non random. A three dimensional Cartesian volume is sized to contain all of a total number N of data points in the data set that is to be characterized. The Cartesian volume is partitioned into equal sized cubes wherein each cube may or may not contain a data point. A predetermined route is defined for the digital images that goes through every cube or section of the image one time and scores each cube or section as a one or a zero thereby producing a stream of ones and zeros. The number of runs is counted and utilized to provide a Runs Test which predicts if the N data points in any data set are random or nonrandom. Additional tests are used in conjunction with the Runs Test to increase the accuracy of characterization of each data set as random or nonrandom.

In operation the coordinates of the position the visual parameter and the vibration parameter are provided to the noise discrimination routine. The noise discrimination routine can be performed individually on the visual data the vibration data and a combination of both types of data. The noise discrimination routine will provide a probability of the data being non random. Non random data will indicate a discontinuity or defect in the position of interest.

As an alternative to the method of U.S. Pat. No. 7 277 573 the input data can be smoothed using a low pass filter. Low pass filtering reduces or eliminates contaminating factors principally environmental vibration noise caused by moving objects cars trucks and other factors that subject a bridge to stress.

Audio video preamplifier processes the signal from the noise discrimination filter. Audio video preamplifier preferably has multiple inputs and outputs capabilities. Audio video preamplifier can receive a user provided threshold that can be adjusted to highlight non random data to a tolerance specified by the user. The user can also choose the most significant component of the visual audio or combined data. The signal gains can be adjusted and are variable.

One way switch is utilized to record signals from audio video preamplifier utilizing recording circuitry when desired. Recording circuitry in the system is set to record a long duration of video and audio including the strength of the signal in FFT form that is processed through the ultrasonic components of the system. The FFT form is received from the signal conditioner . Audio and video indicate the hot spots received from the audio video preamplifier . Recording circuitry can be operated with one input at a time or with multiple inputs if the equipment allows. In addition recording circuitry works in conjunction with LCD display with recording node through a USB connector. Y switch is set to CY or neutral when replaying captured data recorded from recording circuitry .

Y switch is a three way switch. When the switch is set to AY all signals from node are recorded. When the switch is set to CY the power spectrum or FFT for the signal originating from ultrasonic sensor is recorded. When Y switch is set to BY then Y switch is in a neutral position and in this case recording of new data does not occur. However this switch position may be used to replay recorded data from recording circuitry and or record or display the recorded data by inputting the recorded data to the USB connector of LCD display with recording circuitry . The display can be operated in two modes. When Y switch is set to BY LCD display is operable to replay gathered data from either audio video preamplifier or the power spectrum from the signal conditioner . These signal segments may be displayed in spectrogram form so as to easily permit visualization of any detected hot spots. Both of these signals are passed to the LCD display via Y switch .

Recording capability is also embedded into the LCD display with recording circuitry. The estimated time of recording may exceed eight hours. In addition the recorded data can be transferred to an external hard drive through the USB connector. This USB recording capability may be added to the system as a backup which also can be used to extend the recording hours for the system. Data from audio video and signal conditioner can be recorded.

In one embodiment of this invention a user can observe the data in real time as camera and scanning laser are receiving data from the laser vibration analyzer. Preamplifier can be adjusted to alert the user to areas of interest. In another embodiment recording circuitry can be used to record the system data including the preamplifier output.

Scale adjustment can be utilized to zoom the displayed information in or out. This can be used to help the technician understand and clear up complicated signals. In addition scale adjustment can be used to add some type of measurement to trouble areas that were originally processed through audio video preamplifier . The x and y axis from an FFT can be scaled showing amplitude versus frequency.

Speaker is utilized to play back sounds that may be created during the vibration examination utilizing laser .

Bandpass filter shown also in as process filter may have a manual and or an automatic adjustment of the passband. The automatic adjustment may be based on the frequency that is initially applied to transducer TX by wave generator . Referring again to two way switch selectively connects output from bandpass filter to recording circuit .

Analog to digital converter processes output signal by converting the signal from analog to digital. Analog to digital converter preferably utilizes at least a 16 bit conversion. Signal conditioner performs a fast Fourier transform FFT for the signal from analog to digital converter .

In summary of operation of laser analyzer ultrasonic sensor scans an ultrasonic signal along target . The scan is coordinated with the scanning of laser vibrometer sensor which detects variations in the laser signal that may show resonance discontinuities or the like which indicate structural defects. Camera is also coordinated in the scanning and records a visual indication which is then combined with the signal from laser vibrometer sensor . Laser may be utilized to produce a corresponding acoustic signal which may be added to this signal by adder . Laser may also be coordinated in the scanning so that camera laser vibrometer sensor ultrasonic sensor and laser are aimed at the same locations to provide matching data for the data points so created.

The signals may be recorded and or displayed by LCD display with recording circuitry . The data may be displayed in color which illustrates the vibrational signal ranges on the digital image. Certain spectrogram colors may be utilized to show regions with potential defects. The digital signal may also include information such as latitude and longitude of the target for use for quickly providing a map showing bridges or other targeted structures with unacceptable levels of potential defects.

Accordingly the present inventive method provides a laser measurement tool dependent on an ultrasonic operator that would measure vibrations of locations of interest on a solid structure. The device will be able to detect hot spots resulting from some types of vibrations and empty or semi empty gaps that otherwise cannot be recognized by observation visualized or felt. The laser scanning device detects abnormalities in the structure through feedback caused by the ultrasonic sensor . The scanned area is filmed and filtered and may be analyzed through a digital signal processing system aimed to pinpoint the vulnerable spots that are located on the targets of interest. The degree of vibrations can be analyzed immediately perhaps in color and or electronically pointed out without requiring theoretical interpretation.

For these reasons the present proposes a unique way to streamline data collection and analysis by means of a novel three dimensional spatial randomness assessment tool.

Application of this tool and pre processing filtering steps assures the probable success of the method applied to the task. In essence the noise discrimination tool as well as other significant enhancements described hereinbefore assures that the integrity of the diagnostic system is not compromised by the presence of vibrations background noise traffic noise transformer noise engine machinery noise seismic noise and other interferences inherent in the large sample task carried out in the dynamic environment of nature. Due to the noise reduction the present invention may operate from distances up to 300 meters and even beyond 300 meters under good weather conditions.

Many additional changes in the details components steps and organization of the system herein described and illustrated to explain the nature of the invention may be made by those skilled in the art within the principle and scope of the invention. It is therefore understood that within the scope of the appended claims the invention may be practiced otherwise than as specifically described.

