---

title: Irrigation system with multiple soil moisture based seasonal watering adjustment
abstract: An irrigation controller has a control panel including a display and a plurality of user inputs. A processor is operatively connected to the control panel and to a memory. A plurality of switches are operatively connected to the processor for turning a power signal ON and OFF to a plurality of valves that deliver water to a plurality of sprinklers in different zones. Programming is stored in the memory for implementing a seasonal adjustment feature that is independently operable with a plurality of individual watering programs to selectively energize the valves. The programming calculates a soil moisture requirement value for each program using a signal from at least one soil moisture sensor that is associated with a zone that is assigned to that watering program, and automatically modifies the watering program assigned to that zone through the seasonal adjust feature based on the soil moisture requirement value.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08793024&OS=08793024&RS=08793024
owner: Hunter Industries, Inc.
number: 08793024
owner_city: San Marcos
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100225
---
This application is related by inventorship and subject matter to co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 251 179 filed Oct. 14 2008 by Peter J. Woytowitz et al. entitled Irrigation System with Soil Moisture Based Seasonal Watering Adjustment. This application claims priority from the similarly entitled U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 156 397 filed by Peter J. Woytowitz et al. on Feb. 27 2009.

The present invention relates to residential and commercial irrigation systems and more particularly to irrigation controllers that use soil moisture data in calculating and executing watering schedules.

Electronic irrigation controllers have long been used on residential and commercial sites to water turf and landscaping. They typically comprise a plastic housing that encloses circuitry including a processor that executes a watering program. Watering schedules are typically manually entered or selected by a user with pushbutton and or rotary controls while observing an LCD display. The processor turns a plurality of solenoid actuated valves ON and OFF with solid state switches in accordance with the watering schedules that are carried out by the watering program. The valves deliver water to sprinklers connected by subterranean pipes.

There is presently a large demand for conventional irrigation controllers that are easy for users to set up in terms of entering and modifying the watering schedules. One example is the ICC irrigation controller commercially available from Hunter Industries Inc. the assignee of the subject application. Commercial controllers may allow the user to enter multiple watering programs. Each watering program consists of one or more watering schedules. The user simply enters the start times for a selected watering program assigns one or more stations to the watering program and schedules each station to run a predetermined number of minutes to meet the irrigation needs of the site. The problem with conventional irrigation controllers is that they are often set up to provide the maximum amount of irrigation required for the hottest and driest season and then either left that way for the whole year or in some cases the watering schedules are modified once or twice per year by the user. The result is that large amounts of water are wasted. Water is a precious natural resource and there is an increasing need to conserve the same.

A conventional irrigation controller of the type that is used in the commercial market includes a seasonal adjustment feature. In some controllers there is one seasonal adjustment that is an overall adjustment for all stations in the controller that is changed by the user and adjusts the overall watering as a percentage of the originally scheduled cycle times. This feature is typically a simple global adjustment implemented by the user that adjusts the overall watering as a percentage of the originally scheduled cycle times. It is common for the seasonal adjustment to vary between a range of about ten percent to about one hundred and fifty percent or more of the scheduled watering. This is the simplest and most common overall watering adjustment that users of irrigation controllers can effectuate to modify their irrigation requirements through the different seasons. Some commercially available irrigation controllers expand this capability by allowing independent seasonal adjustment of each program. This may be referred to as multiple seasonal adjusts percentage adjusts by program or water budget by program. Because of this there is the potential to have several seasonal adjustments that need to be made by the user. With this advanced programming where the user has a separate seasonal adjust for each program the user may assign stations with similar irrigation requirements to an independent seasonal adjust. For example all of the stations that irrigate turf in the sun may be assigned to one seasonal adjust. Likewise all stations that water turf in the shade may be assigned to another seasonal adjustment. This may continue as they add other zones such as those used for potted plants those used for planters with over head watering those used for planters with drip those used for watering trees etc. While this allows for greater flexibility to perform better irrigation throughout the seasons it adds to the complexity for the user. Users can move the amount of adjustments down to zero to thirty percent in the winter depending on their local requirements. They may run the system at fifty percent during the spring or fall seasons and then at one hundred percent for the summer. The ability to seasonally adjust up to three hundred percent of the scheduled watering accommodates the occasional heat wave when turf and landscaping require significantly increased watering. The seasonal adjustment feature does not produce the optimum watering schedules because it does not take into consideration the amount of moisture that is actually available in the soil for the plants to utilize for healthy growth. Instead the seasonal adjustment feature is manually set to simply adjust the watering schedules either globally or by individual programs to run a longer or shorter period of time based on the existing watering schedules. When the seasonal adjustment feature is accurately re set on a regular basis a substantial amount of water is conserved while still providing adequate irrigation in a variety of weather conditions. The problem is that most users do not re set this on a regular basis or do not set this correctly so either a considerable amount of water is wasted or turf and landscaping die.

In the past irrigation controllers used with turf and landscaping have used soil moisture data to activate or deactivate irrigation zones based on actual soil moisture conditions. When soil moisture sensors are used with conventional irrigation controllers the sensors typically interrupt the programmed irrigation cycle by breaking the electrical connection between the controller and the irrigation valves when the soil is moist. Some specialized controllers that are designed to work specifically with soil moisture sensors can turn the irrigation on when the soil reaches a dry state then turns the irrigation off when it reaches a moist state.

While conventional soil moisture based controllers help to conserve water and maintain plant health over a wider range of weather conditions they are specifically adapted to soil moisture sensor control and may not meet other needs of the landscaped area well. Soil moisture sensors that are hooked up to traditional irrigation controllers may simply disrupt the scheduled irrigation by disconnecting the common line to the valves when the soil is moist. In these cases the irrigation controller turns ON the outputs to the valves when they are normally scheduled to run. If the soil moisture sensor is sensing moist soil conditions it simply disconnects the electrical circuit to the valve. The controller thinks it is irrigating but the irrigation process is not happening. This can create confusion for the user when they go to the controller and see that station X is on yet they go out to the property to see that the same station is not running irrigation. This can result in calls to professionals to debug the irrigation system when the soil moisture was just keeping the station from running as designed. In these applications there is no indication on the controller that the soil moisture has disrupted the irrigation process.

In both of the aforementioned circumstances the systems may require one sensor to be placed in the ground for every zone on the controller. Cables are then run back to the controller through the landscape. Some commercially available irrigation controllers irrigate over forty zones. This requires a substantial cost in materials and labor. Additionally some conventional irrigation controllers calculate the amount of water used based on the irrigation cycles as they run. When the sensors disrupt irrigation while the controller thinks it is irrigating the controller creates erroneous reports of over use of water when in fact conservation is occurring. In some irrigation controllers the controller knows the theoretical amount of water scheduled to be applied. As the stations are running the controller measures this theoretical flow against the actual flow with a flow meter installed on the irrigation site. When the theoretical and actual flow are not within certain parameters an alarm will indicate that there is a problem with the irrigation system. Soil moisture installations mentioned above will not work with these types of controllers.

In another application one soil moisture sensor is hooked up to a rain sensor input on a conventional type of irrigation controller. In this case as soon as the soil moisture sensor detects moisture it shuts the entire controller off. This requires abnormal programming in the controller and also requires the soil moisture sensor to be placed in the last station to be run so the irrigation does not shut off before all stations have irrigated. With this arrangement watering conservation may not be optimized as all of the previous stations may have run too much water for proper irrigation to have occurred prior to the last station sensing that the soil is moist after just a few minutes of irrigation.

The present invention provides an irrigation controller with a control panel including a display and a plurality of user inputs. A processor is operatively connected to the control panel and to a memory. A plurality of switches are operatively connected to the processor for turning a power signal ON and OFF to a plurality of valves that deliver water to a plurality of sprinklers in different zones. Programming is stored in the memory for implementing a seasonal adjustment feature that is independently operable with a plurality of individual watering programs to selectively energize the valves. The programming calculates a soil moisture requirement value for each watering program using a signal from at least one soil moisture sensor that is associated with a zone that is assigned to that watering program and automatically modifies the watering program assigned to that zone through the seasonal adjust feature based on the soil moisture requirement value.

The present invention also provides a soil moisture based irrigation system that includes a stand alone irrigation controller with a seasonal adjustment feature that is independently operable with individual watering programs to selectively energize a plurality of electrically actuated valves that deliver water to a plurality of sprinklers in different zones. The system further includes a plurality of soil moisture sensors each zone having at least one soil moisture sensor physically associated therewith. A stand alone soil moisture control unit is operatively in communication with the irrigation controller. The soil moisture sensor control unit includes programming configured to calculate a soil moisture requirement value for each zone using a signal from at least one soil moisture sensor associated with that zone and to automatically modify one or more watering programs of the irrigation controller assigned to that zone through the seasonal adjust feature based on the soil moisture requirement value.

The entire disclosures of the following U.S. patents and U.S. patent applications are hereby incorporated by reference U.S. Pat. No. 5 097 861 granted Mar. 24 1992 of Hopkins et al. entitled U.S. Pat. No. 5 444 611 granted Aug. 22 1995 of Peter J. Woytowitz et al. entitled U.S. Pat. No. 5 829 678 granted Nov. 3 1998 of Richard E. Hunter et al. entitled S U.S. Pat. No. 6 088 621 granted Jul. 11 2000 also of Peter J. Woytowitz et al. entitled U.S. Pat. No. 6 721 630 granted Apr. 13 2004 also of Peter J. Woytowitz entitled U.S. Pat. No. 6 842 667 granted Jan. 11 2005 of Beutler et al. entitled U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 883 283 filed Jun. 30 2004 also of Peter J. Woytowitz entitled H now U.S. Pat. No. 7 069 115 granted Jun. 27 2007 pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 985 425 filed Nov. 9 2004 also of Peter J. Woytowitz et al. and entitled pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 288 831 filed Nov. 29 2005 of LaMonte D. Porter et al. and entitled U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 045 527 filed Jan. 28 2005 also of Peter J. Woytowitz entitled now U.S. Pat. No. 7 245 991 granted Jul. 17 2007 U.S. Pat. No. 7 289 886 of Peter J. Woytowitz granted Oct. 30 2007 entitled U.S. Pat. No. 7 225 058 of Lamonte D. Porter granted May 29 2007 entitled pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 458 551 filed Jul. 19 2006 of Lamonte D. Porter et al. entitled pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 042 301 filed Mar. 4 2008 of Peter J. Woytowitz et al. entitled IRRIGATION CONTROLLER WITH SELECTABLE WATERING RESTRICTIONS and pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 181 894 filed Jul. 29 2008 of Peter J. Woytowitz et al. entitled IET U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 243 897 filed Oct. 1 2008 of LaMonte D. Porter et al. entitled L and PENDING U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 251 179 filed Oct. 14 2008 of Peter J. Woytowitz et al. entitled I. The aforementioned U.S. patents and applications are all assigned to Hunter Industries Inc. the assignee of the subject application.

The present invention addresses the poor inner operability between soil moisture sensors and conventional irrigation controllers as well as the ability for a moisture sensor control unit to automatically increase or decrease the programmed duration of the irrigation schedule. The irrigation system of the present invention has a familiar manner of entering selecting and modifying its watering schedules and either built in or add on capability to automatically modify its watering schedules based on soil moisture data in order to conserve water and effectively irrigate vegetation throughout the year as weather conditions vary. The user friendly irrigation system of the present invention is capable of saving a significant amount of water that can theoretically be conserved on a given irrigation site but is still able to be used by most non professionals because of the simplicity of the connections between the soil moisture sensor and the controller as well as the clear indication of when irrigation is or is not happening for the user. The moisture sensor indicates the level of moisture in the soil. The soil moisture control unit calculates the percentage of irrigation schedule that is required for the next irrigation cycle. The irrigation controller then calculates the watering requirements and controls the irrigation process.

The system of the present invention may take the form of a stand alone irrigation controller connected to a standalone soil moisture control unit that is connectable to one or more soil moisture sensors. Alternatively the system may take the form of a stand alone irrigation controller with a removable soil moisture control module that is connectable to one or more soil moisture sensors. In yet another embodiment the system may take the form of a standalone soil moisture based irrigation controller with all the components mounted in a single box like housing that is connectable to one or more soil moisture sensors.

In accordance with one aspect of the present invention a soil moisture based irrigation system includes a stand alone irrigation controller with multiple seasonal adjust features and one or more soil moisture sensors. The soil moisture based irrigation system further includes a stand alone soil moisture control unit operatively connected to the irrigation controller and the soil moisture sensors. The soil moisture control unit includes programming configured to calculate one or more estimated soil moisture requirement values using signals from the soil moisture sensors and to automatically modify individual watering programs of the irrigation controller through the seasonal adjust feature based on the estimated soil moisture requirement values to thereby conserve water while maintaining plant health.

In accordance with another aspect of the present invention a soil moisture based irrigation system includes an interface that enables a user to select and or enter watering schedules and a memory for storing the watering schedules. The system further includes one or more sensors for generating signals representative of the soil moisture in individual irrigation zones. Each sensor may be assigned to one or more watering programs. A processor in the system that is capable of calculating one or more estimated soil moisture requirement values based at least in part on the signal from each soil moisture sensor. The system further includes a program executable by the processor to enable the processor to generate commands for selectively turning a plurality of valves ON and OFF in accordance with the watering schedules. The program includes seasonal a adjust feature that provides the capability for automatically modifying the watering schedules based on the estimated soil moisture requirement values to thereby conserve water while maintaining plant health.

The present invention also provides a unique method of controlling a plurality of valves on an irrigation site using soil moisture data. The method includes the step of calculating an estimated soil moisture requirement value based in part on signals from one or more soil moisture sensors associated with one or more watering programs. The method further includes the step of automatically modifying one or more watering programs based on the estimated soil moisture requirement values using a seasonal adjust algorithm to thereby conserve water while maintaining the health of plants on the irrigation site. Optionally the method of the present invention may further include the step of inputting an overall watering adjustment for each soil moisture sensor and automatically modifying the watering program associated with that soil moisture sensor through the seasonal adjust algorithm for the associated watering program based on the estimated soil moisture value as increased or decreased by the inputted overall watering adjustment.

The present invention also provides a unique method of automatically establishing an initial watering schedule to control a plurality of valves on an irrigation site using soil moisture data. The method includes the step of assigning on or more master zones with each zone having a soil moisture sensor communicating to it. The method further includes the step of assigning associated zones to each master zone. The method further includes the step of starting the controllers irrigation in an automatic programming mode. In the automatic programming mode the controller runs the first master zone until the soil moisture sensor senses that the soil is moist. The controller then sets this time as the run time for the first master zone and calculates a run time for each associated zone assigned to it. The controller repeats this function for each of the remaining master zones. When each of the sensors sense that the zone associated with it is dry the controller will set the delay time between watering value for that zone and begin irrigating according to the watering schedule.

Referring to in accordance with a first embodiment of the present invention an irrigation system comprises a stand alone irrigation controller connected via cable to a stand alone soil moisture control unit that is in turn connected via buried multi wire cables to a plurality of soil moisture sensors . It will be understood that the many advantages of the present invention can be achieved with a single soil moisture sensor however multiple soil moisture sensors are preferred. illustrates various means for communication between the soil moisture sensors and the soil moisture sensor control unit . The controller soil moisture unit and one or more soil moisture sensors and exchange data and commands via wireless communication links and .

The stand alone irrigation controller and soil moisture control unit would typically be mounted in a garage or other protected location although they can have a waterproof construction that allows them to be mounted out of doors. The soil moisture sensors are typically mounted in the ground at places that represent the typical moisture content of the irrigated areas. The cables and typically include copper wires so that power can be supplied to the soil moisture control unit and the soil moisture sensor from the irrigation controller . Data and commands are sent on other copper wires in the cables. Fiber optic cables can also be utilized for sending data and commands. Optionally the soil moisture sensors may receive their power via battery when only the data is sent over the connecting wire or the radio links .

A transformer that plugs into a standard household 110 volt AC duplex outlet supplies twenty four volt AC power to the stand alone irrigation controller . In its preferred form the irrigation system employs a hard wired communication link between the stand alone irrigation controller and the stand alone soil moisture control unit that are normally mounted adjacent one another such as on a garage wall Hard wired communication links are provided between the stand alone soil moisture control unit and the soil moisture sensors and and wireless communication links are provided between the stand alone soil moisture control unit and the soil moisture sensors and . The stand alone soil moisture control unit may be manufactured in a form factor that is small enough to fit inside the open space of the irrigation controller . One or more solenoid actuated irrigation valves are connected to outputs of the stand alone irrigation controller using buried multi wire cable or other suitable wires.

Referring to in accordance with an a second embodiment of the present invention an irrigation system comprises a stand alone irrigation controller connected via cable to a stand alone soil moisture control unit . This figure illustrates alternate means for communication to and from the soil moisture sensors and the soil moisture sensor control unit through communications hubs . Soil moisture control unit is connected via cable to a communications hub . Communications hub is connected to soil moisture sensor using cable and wireless connection is used to communicate with soil moisture sensor . Soil moisture sensors and communicate with communications hub using wireless connection and cable respectively. Communications hub communicates through wireless link to the soil moisture control unit . The controller and soil moisture control unit would typically be mounted in a garage or other protected location although they can have a waterproof construction that allows them to be mounted out of doors. The soil moisture sensors are typically mounted in the ground at places that represent the typical moisture content of the irrigated areas. The cables and typically include copper wires so that power can be supplied to the soil moisture control unit communications hub and the soil moisture sensor from the irrigation controller . Data and commands are sent on other copper wires in the cables. Fiber optic cables can also be utilized for sending data and commands. Alternately these same devices may be powered by one or more batteries not illustrated .

Soil moisture sensors and and wireless communications hub may be powered by batteries not illustrated or other power source as they utilize wireless communications. A transformer that plugs into a standard household 110 volt AC duplex outlet supplies twenty four volt AC power to the stand alone irrigation controller . In its preferred form the irrigation system employs a hard wired communication link between the stand alone irrigation controller and the stand alone soil moisture control unit that are normally mounted adjacent one another such as on a garage wall and a hard wired communication link between the stand alone soil moisture control unit and the communications hub . Hard wired communications or wireless communication links provides communication channels to the soil moisture sensors to the communication hubs and . Hardwire communications cable or wireless communication link provides communication channels to the communication hubs and respectively. The soil moisture control unit may be manufactured small enough to fit inside the open space of the irrigation controller . Irrigation valves are connected to the output of the irrigation controller using wires .

Referring to in accordance with a third embodiment of the present invention an irrigation system comprises a standalone irrigation controller connected via cable to a standalone soil moisture control unit that is in turn connected via a multi wire cable to one or more decoder modules . Each soil moisture sensor is connected to a decoder module via sensor wiring . Optionally the decoder module may be built into the housings of the soil moisture sensors to allow connection directly to cable . The controller and soil moisture control unit would typically be mounted in a garage or other protected location although they can have a waterproof construction that allows them to be mounted out of doors.

In the third embodiment the soil moisture sensors are typically mounted in the ground at places that represent the typical moisture content of the irrigated areas. The cables and typically include copper wires so that power can be supplied to the soil moisture control unit and the soil moisture sensor from the irrigation controller . Data and commands may be sent on the same power wires or on other copper wires in the cables. Fiber optic cables can also be utilized for sending data and commands. The multi conductor cable connects to any one of a multiple number of decoder modules . The decoder modules each have an individual address assigned to them. Any data transmitted by the cable includes and address message packet in the communications that identify which sensor the data is coming from or being sent to. This allows for many sensors to be installed over a large are using only a single two or three wire cable thus potentially saving thousands of feet of wire and the related labor to install it. A transformer that plugs into a standard household 110 volt AC duplex outlet supplies twenty four volt AC power to the stand alone irrigation controller .

In its preferred form the irrigation system employs a hard wired communication link between the stand alone irrigation controller and the stand alone soil moisture control unit that are normally mounted adjacent one another such as on a garage wall and hard wired decoder system consisting of wire cable and decoder modules between the stand alone soil moisture control unit and the soil moisture sensors . The soil moisture control unit may be manufactured small enough to fit inside the open space of the irrigation controller . One or more irrigation valves are connected to the output of the irrigation controller using multi wire cable or other suitable individual wires.

Referring to in accordance with a fourth embodiment of the present invention a modified stand alone irrigation controller internally contains similar electronics and logic and or firmware similar to that of the stand alone controller and the stand alone soil moisture control unit of . illustrated multiple means for communications to and from the soil moisture sensors and the stand alone irrigation controller . The stand alone irrigation controller is in connected via multi wire cables to one or more soil moisture sensors . The stand alone irrigation controller and one or more soil moisture sensors and may exchange data and commands via wireless communication links . The stand alone irrigation controller and would typically be mounted in a garage or other protected location although it can have a waterproof construction that allows it to be mounted out of doors.

In the embodiment the soil moisture sensors are typically mounted in the ground at places that represent the typical moisture content of the irrigated areas. The cables typically include copper wires so that power can be supplied to the soil moisture sensors from the stand alone irrigation controller . Data and commands may be sent on the same power wires or on other copper wires in the cables. Fiber optic cables can also be utilized for sending data and commands. Optionally the soil moisture sensors may receive power via a battery where only the data is sent over the connecting wires or the radio links . A transformer that plugs into a standard household 110 volt AC duplex outlet supplies twenty four volt AC power to the stand alone irrigation controller . In its preferred form the irrigation system employs the irrigation controller and hard wired communication links between the irrigation controller and the soil moisture sensors or by wireless communication links of soil moisture sensors and . The stand irrigation controller may be purpose built to work with soil moisture sensors or it may be manufactured as a more generic irrigation controller that is designed to accept a plug in module that adapts it to work with soil moisture sensors . One or more irrigation valves are connected to the output of the irrigation controller using multi wire cable or other suitable individual wires.

Referring to in accordance with a fifth embodiment of the present invention a standalone irrigation controller internally contains electronics and logic and or firmware similar to that of the standalone controller of and the attached soil moisture control unit of . illustrates multiple means for communication to and from the soil moisture sensors and the irrigation controller through communications hubs . The irrigation controller is connected via cable to a communications hub . Communications hub is connected to soil moisture sensor using cable and wireless connection is used to communicate with soil moisture sensor . Soil moisture sensors and communicate with wireless communications hub using wireless connection and cable respectively. Communications hub communicates through wireless link to the soil moisture controller

In the system the controller would typically be mounted in a garage or other protected location although it can have a waterproof construction that allows it to be mounted out of doors. The soil moisture sensors are typically mounted in the ground at places that represent the typical moisture content of the irrigated areas. The cables and typically include copper wires so that power can be supplied to the communications hub and the soil moisture sensor from the irrigation controller . Data and commands may be sent on other copper wires in the cables. Fiber optic cables can also be utilized for sending data and commands. Alternately these same devices may be powered by one or more batteries not shown . Soil moisture sensors and and wireless communications hub may be powered by batteries not shown or another power source as they utilize wireless communications. A transformer that plugs into a standard household 110 volt AC duplex outlet supplies twenty four volt AC power to the stand alone irrigation controller

In its preferred form the irrigation system employs hard wired communications or wireless communication links between the soil moisture sensors and the communication hubs and . Hardwire communications cable or wireless communication link provides communication channels between the communication hubs and respectively and the irrigation controller . Irrigation valves are connected to the output of the irrigation controller using wires .

Referring to in accordance with a sixth embodiment of the present invention a standalone irrigation controller internally contains electronics and logic and or firmware similar to that of the standalone controller of and the attached soil moisture control unit of . In this case controller is designed to communicate to all of the peripheral devices using encoder and decoder technology. The irrigation controller is connected via cable to a variety of decoder modules and . Decoder modules are designed to provide power to turn on control valves when the irrigation controller sends the appropriate command. Decoder modules are designed to communicate two ways and provide the communication channel between the soil moisture sensors and the irrigation controller . Decoder modules are connected to the soil moisture sensors via using cable . Optionally the decoder module may be built into the housings of sensors to allow connection directly to cable .

The decoder modules and each have an individual address assigned to them. Any data transmitted by the cable includes an address message packet in the communications that identify which sensor or valve the data is coming from or being sent to. This allows for many sensors and many valves to be installed over a large are using only a single two or three wire cable thus potentially saving thousands of feet of wire and the related labor to install it. The controller would typically be mounted in a garage or other protected location although it can have a waterproof construction that allows it to be mounted out of doors. The soil moisture sensors are typically mounted in the ground at places that represent the typical moisture content of the irrigated areas. The cables typically include copper wires so that power can be supplied to the soil moisture sensors from the irrigation controller . Data and commands may be sent on the power wires or on other copper wires in the cables. Alternately these same devices may be powered by one or more batteries not illustrated . A transformer that plugs into a standard household 110 volt AC duplex outlet supplies twenty four volt AC power to the stand alone irrigation controller

In its preferred form the irrigation system of employs hard wired decoder communications cable which is connected to decoder modules and . Irrigation valves are connected to decoder modules using cables . Soil moisture sensors are connected to the decoder modules using cables .

Referring to in accordance with a seventh embodiment of the present invention a standalone irrigation controller is connected via cable to a standalone soil moisture control unit that is in turn connected via multi wire cables to one or more soil moisture sensors . This figure illustrates a daisy chain connection configuration for the soil moisture sensors that allows for communications to and from the soil moisture sensors and the soil moisture sensor control unit . The stand alone irrigation controller and stand alone soil moisture control unit would typically be mounted in a garage or other protected location although they can have a waterproof construction that allows them to be mounted out of doors. The soil moisture sensors are typically mounted in the ground at places that represent the typical moisture content of the irrigated areas. The cables and typically include copper wires so that power can be supplied to the soil moisture control unit and the soil moisture sensor from the irrigation controller . Data and commands are sent on other copper wires in the cables. Fiber optic cables can also be utilized for sending data and commands. Optionally the soil moisture sensor may receive its power via a battery where only the data is sent over the connecting wire . A transformer that plugs into a standard household 110 volt AC duplex outlet supplies twenty four volt AC power to the stand alone irrigation controller .

In its preferred form the irrigation system employs a hard wired communication link between the stand alone irrigation controller and the stand alone soil moisture control unit that are normally mounted adjacent one another such as on a garage wall and hard wired communication link between the stand alone soil moisture control unit and the soil moisture sensor . Subsequent soil moisture sensors are connected in a daisy chain fashion to the next sensor ahead of it. The soil moisture control unit may be manufactured small enough to fit inside the open space of the irrigation controller . One or more irrigation valves are connected to the output of the irrigation controller using multi wire cable or other suitable individual wires.

Referring to in accordance with an eighth embodiment of the present invention a stand alone irrigation controller internally contains electronics and logic and or firmware similar to that of the standalone controller of and the attached soil moisture control unit of . This figure illustrates a daisy chain communications scheme to and from the soil moisture sensors and the irrigation controller . The irrigation controller is connected via multi wire cables to soil moisture sensors . Subsequent soil moisture sensors are connected in a daisy chain fashion to the next soil moisture sensor ahead of it. The controller would typically be mounted in a garage or other protected location although it can have a waterproof construction that allows it to be mounted out of doors. The soil moisture sensors are typically mounted in the ground at places that represent the typical moisture content of the irrigated areas. The cables typically include copper wires so that power can be supplied to the soil moisture sensors from the irrigation controller . Data and commands may be sent on the same power wires or on other copper wires in the cables. Fiber optic cables can also be utilized for sending data and commands. Optionally the soil moisture sensors may receive power via a battery where only the data is sent over the connecting wires . A transformer that plugs into a standard household 110 volt AC duplex outlet supplies twenty four volt AC power to the stand alone irrigation controller

In its preferred form the irrigation system employs an irrigation controller and hard wired communication links between the irrigation controller and the soil moisture sensors . Subsequent soil moisture sensors are connected in a daisy chain fashion to the next sensor ahead of it. The irrigation controller may be purpose built to work with soil moisture sensors or it may be manufactured as a more generic irrigation controller that is designed to accept a plug in module that adapts it to work with soil moisture sensors . One or more irrigation valves are connected to the output of the irrigation controller using multi wire cable or other suitable individual wires.

In each of the B C and G the hard wired connection may be replaced by a wireless connection and the soil moisture control unit may receive its power from an alternative source including a different 24 volt AC power supply or one or more batteries.

Referring to the stand alone irrigation controller includes a wall mountable plastic housing structure in the form of a generally box shaped front door hinged along one vertical edge to a generally box shaped back panel . A generally rectangular face pack is removably mounted to the hinged cover plate which covers the back panel and is normally concealed by the front door when not being accessed for programming. The face pack has an interface in the form of a plurality of manually actuable controls including a rotary knob switch and push button switches as well as slide switch which serves as a sensor by pass switch. One or more programs and their associated watering schedules consisting of various run and cycle times can be entered by the user by manipulating the rotary knob switch and selected ones of the push button switches in conjunction with observing numbers words and or graphic symbols indicated on a liquid crystal display LCD . Push buttons and are used to increase or decrease the seasonal adjust value. The watering schedules can be a complicated set of run time and cycle algorithms or a portion thereof such as a simple five minute cycle for a single station. Alternatively existing pre programmed watering schedules can be selected such as selected zones every other day. An optional features card that modifies the programming features to the user is installed in face pack . Any or sub combination of manually actuable input devices such as rotary switches dials push buttons slide switches rocker switches toggle switches membrane switches track balls conventional screens touch screens etc. may be used to provide an interface that enables a user to select and or enter a watering schedule. Still another alternative involves uploading watering schedules through the SMARTPORT Trademark feature of the irrigation controller more details of which are set forth in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 6 088 621.

The face pack encloses and supports a printed circuit board not illustrated with a processor for executing and implementing a stored watering program. An electrical connection is made between the face pack and the components in the back panel through a detachable ribbon cable including a plurality of conductors . The circuitry inside the face pack can be powered by a battery to allow a person to remove the face pack un plug the ribbon cable and walk around the lawn garden area or golf course while entering watering schedules or altering pre existing watering schedules.

A processor is mounted on the printed circuit board inside the face pack . A watering program stored in a memory is executable by the processor to enable the processor to generate commands for selectively turning a plurality of solenoid actuated irrigation valves not illustrated ON and OFF in accordance with the selected or entered watering schedule. An example of such an irrigation valve is disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 996 608 granted Dec. 7 1999 of Richard E. Hunter et al. entitled the entire disclosure of which is hereby incorporated by reference. Said patent is also assigned to Hunter Industries Inc. Typically the solenoid actuated valves are mounted in subterranean plastic boxes not illustrated on the irrigated site.

The processor communicates with removable modules and each containing a circuit that includes a plurality of solid state switches such as triacs. These switches turn twenty four volt AC current ON and OFF to open and close corresponding solenoid actuated valves via connected to dedicated field valve wires and a common return line to screw terminals on the modules and 

In the modules and are shown installed in side by side fashion in station module receptacles formed in the back panel . The module serves as a base module that can turn a master valve ON and OFF in addition to a plurality of separate station valves. Each module includes an outer generally rectangular plastic housing with a slot at its forward end. A small printed circuit board not illustrated within the module housing supports the station module circuit that includes conductive traces that lead to the electrical connectors. Electrical plugs that communicate with the processor and the screw terminals are accessible via the slot in the forward end of the module housing. These electrical plugs register with corresponding electrical sockets on the topside of a relatively large printed circuit board mounted inside the back panel when the module is slid into its corresponding receptacle. The relatively large printed circuit board is referred to as a back plane. The base module and station modules and the back plane are thus electrically and mechanically connected in releasable fashion through the electrical plugs and sockets when the base module and station modules are inserted or plugged into their respective receptacles.

An elongate locking bar can be manually slid up and down in between locked and unlocked positions to secure and un secure the modules and after they have been fully inserted into their respective receptacles. Opposing raised projections formed on the locking bar facilitate sliding the locking bar with a thumb. A pointer extends from one of the raised projections and serves as a position indicator that aligns with LOCKED and UNLOCKED indicia not illustrated molded into the upper surface of another plastic support structure mounted inside back panel .

The receptacles for the modules such as and are partially defined by vertical walls formed on the back panel . Vertical walls also formed on the back panel to provide support to the modules and . Terminal strip provides connection points for all of the valve wiring decoder cable wiring and for connecting remote sensors and accessories. The term receptacles should be broadly construed as defined in one or more of the patents and pending applications incorporated by reference above. Although three output modules are show in for clarity the controller may be designed to allow for any number of modules.

The processor controls the base module and the station modules in accordance with one or more watering programs. Serial or multiplexed communication is enabled via the back plane to the base module and to each of the output modules . Suitable synchronous serial data and asynchronous serial data station module circuits are disclosed in the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 6 721 630. The location of each module in terms of which receptacle it is plugged into is sensed using resistors on the back plane and a comparator which may be an industry standard LM393 device. The face pack receives twenty four volt AC power from the transformer through the back plane and regulates the same via a power supply circuit . The power supply circuit includes a National Semiconductor LM7905 voltage regulator a Microchip Technology TC54VN45202 power supervisor and a Microchip MCP1702T 3302A voltage regulator. A lithium battery such as an industry standard CR2032 battery is included in the power supply circuit and provides backup power to the micro controller to maintain the internal clock in the event of a power failure. The face pack ribbon cable that connects the face pack and the back plane can be disconnected and a nine volt battery then supplies power to the face pack . This allows a user to remove the face pack from the back panel and enter or modify watering schedules as he or she walks around the irrigation site.

The modules and have contacts on the sides of their outer plastic housings. When the modules are first plugged into their receptacles only a communication path is established with the processor via the back plane . At this time the locking bar is in its UNLOCKED position. Thereafter when the locking bar is slid to its LOCKED position finger like contacts on the underside of the locking bar register with the contacts on the modules and to supply twenty four volt AC power to the modules that is switched ON and OFF to the valves that are connected to the modules. The finger like contacts are connected to a common conductor carried by the locking bar . When the locking bar is slid to its LOCKED position projections and tabs that extend from the locking bar and the modules are aligned to prevent withdrawal of the modules. See the aforementioned U.S. Pat. No. 7 225 058 for further details.

The power module circuit also accepts the field sensor signals. These sensors may be normally open or normally closed contacts pulse flow or other proprietary signals such as those used in the Hunter ET System. The sensor signals are first applied to the Sensor interface circuit which contains an industry standard LM393 comparator. The sensor interface circuit feeds a bank of optoisolators typically comprised of industry standard 4N25 devices. The optoisolators feed the Power Module microcontroller which is a Microchip Trademark PIC16F684. This device interprets the now conditioned and isolated sensor signals and communicates their status to the front panel via the sensor communication line. The sensor communication line can also send information from the front panel to the power module such as what type of sensor is connected. This information is useful in helping the power module determine how to power the sensor and interpret its signals. It may also be advantageous to allow the microcontroller in the power module to be aware of the status of the station outputs in the controller. For instance if the power module is sensing flow but no stations are on it can alert the front panel of this fact. The module data is therefore also brought into a pin on the power module microcontroller.

Yet another function of the power module is to sense the current being drawn by the solenoid valves in the field. This is accomplished via the current sensing circuit. A raw current signal is brought into the power module on the I Sense line from the backplane. The current sensing circuit serves two functions. It uses an industry standard LM393 comparator to monitor the instantaneous current and compare it to a pre set limit. If the instantaneous current exceeds this limit the over current signal goes active and alerts the front panel of the problem so that the outputs may immediately be shut down. The current sense circuit also provides a current sense signal to the front panel. This signal represents a filtered scaled version of the I Sense signal. It is generated using an industry standard LM358 op amp to amplify peak detect and filter the I Sense signal. The front panel can use the current sense signal to display the actual current being drawn by the solenoid actuated valves. It can also use this information to determine if there is enough power capacity left in the controller to turn another solenoid ON.

The power module has several power supplies in it. All the supplies are fed with an unregulated 24VAC signal from the slide bar contact. This signal is first rectified and filtered then sent to various regulators and also back out to the backplane on the VRAW line. A pre regulator comprised of an industry standard LM7912 generates a 12V signal. This signal is fed into an industry standard LM7905 regulator which supplied a minus five volt output. This minus five volt output is used as the logic ground for the entire controller. The power module also contains a separate rectifier and filter for a plus 24VDC voltage regulator comprised of an industry standard LM7824. This 24VDC signal is used to power the sensors.

Referring to the stand alone soil moisture control unit includes a rectangular outer plastic housing enclosing a printed circuit board not illustrated which supports the electronic circuit of the soil moisture control unit that is illustrated in the block diagram of . A microcontroller such as a Microchip PIC18F65J90 processor executes firmware programming stored in a memory such as an industry standard 93AA66A EEPROM memory. The microcontroller can receive DC power from a lithium battery such as an industry standard CR2032 battery which allows accurate time keeping in the event of a power failure. Insulating strip must be manually pulled out to establish an operative connection of the battery . External power for the soil moisture control unit is supplied from the transformer via the cable . The twenty four volt AC power from the transformer is supplied to a rectifier filter circuit which supplies twenty four volt DC power to a power regulation circuit which may be an ST Microelectronics L78M24CDT TR regulator. Power from the power regulation circuit is fed to a microcontroller power regulator which may be a Microchip MCP 1702T 25021 CB regulator. Power from the power regulation circuit is also fed to a wired or wireless sensor communications device that may include by way of example an industry standard MMBTA92 for the signal transmitter and an industry standard LM393 comparator for the receiver.

The microcontroller interfaces with the SmartPort Trademark connector of the irrigation controller with a combination interface optocoupler which may be provided by an industry standard 4N26S device. The microcontroller interfaces with a soil moisture sensor illustrated in . An LCD display is mounted in the housing . Three manually actuable controls in the form of push buttons are mounted in the housing for enabling the user to make selections when setting up and modifying the operation of the Moisture sensor control unit in conjunction with information indicated on the display which is facilitated by column and row indicia and respectively affixed to the housing adjacent the horizontal and vertical margins of the display . Row indicia include from top to bottom AM PM 24 hr START and END which are printed painted molded or otherwise applied to the outer plastic housing such as by a sticker. Column indicia are illustrated diagrammatically as A E in due to space constraints in the drawing. The soil moisture control unit can be manufactured to work with a variety of different soil moisture sensors. Different sensors may have different set up requirements. As a result A E may be labeled differently depending on which type of sensor it is designed to control. The labels of A E may be selected from but not limited to the group consisting of MOISTURE SENSOR TYPE SOILTYPE SENSOR DEPTH TEMPERATURE SENSOR TYPE CALIBRATION CABLE LENGTH SET THRESHOLD NO WATER and WATER with associated icons which are printed painted molded or otherwise applied to the outer plastic housing such as by a sticker.

If the installation includes the ability to measure the either the soil or the air temperature this additional information can be used by the soil moisture control unit to calculate the soil moisture requirement value. The soil moisture requirement value will increase or decrease in relationship to changes in the soil temperature or air temperature. The higher the recorded temperatures the greater the evapotranspiration of the plant material will be. Furthermore overhead irrigation is not as efficient as high temperatures because of evaporation of the spray in the air prior to it hitting the surface of the ground. Also if the temperatures are very high a certain percentage of water that hits the ground will evaporate prior to soaking into the soil. All of these considerations can be taken in to account by the soil moisture controller to increase or decrease the amount of water that is supplied at a given time. In the case of a soil temperature measurement this is further modified by how deep the sensor is placed into the soil because the temperature changes in the soil are reduced as the sensing depth is increased. The ability of the soil moisture control unit to determine the irrigation requirements based on either air or soil temperature and moisture content allow it to change the seasonal adjust of the irrigation controller from as little as zero percent 0 of normal watering to more than one hundred percent 100 of the normal watering schedule based on the actual conditions of the soil at the irrigation site.

The user can modify the run and cycle times for individual stations in the usual manner in the irrigation controller . As an example if one station is watering too much but all of the other stations are watering the correct amount the user can easily reduce the run time of that particular station and balance the system out. Then the soil moisture control unit continues modifying the watering schedules executed by the irrigation controller on a global basis as a percentage of run time based on the calculated estimated soil moisture requirement value. Irrigation controllers can be used to control landscape lighting and other non irrigation devices such as decorative water fountains. The controller may have features in it such that the soil moisture control unit only modifies the watering schedules of the irrigation controller .

One of the difficulties with conventional soil moisture based controllers is attributable to the difficulty of fine tuning the irrigation controller schedule based on the soil moisture data being received. One situation is where the irrigation schedule has been inaccurately set up. It is very common for irrigation controllers to be programmed by the end user so that the schedule tends to over or under irrigate the property. In the system of the present invention this scheduling error is automatically corrected by the soil moisture control unit . When the irrigation control unit is installed one of the soil moisture sensors is installed at the proper root zone depth of each of the monitored irrigated zones. Each watering program has at least one soil moisture sensor associated therewith. There may be a plurality of watering programs associated with a landscaped area each program having at least one zone assigned to it where one of the assigned zones has a soil moisture sensor buried in the landscaped area that is irrigated by that zone.

When a monitored zone is being watered the soil moisture control unit and the controller communicate via a two way communications platform to measure how long that station operates. If the soil moisture control unit has not detected the proper moisture when the irrigation cycle is complete it can automatically increase the run time of the watering schedules within the program by adjusting the associated seasonal adjust feature higher. It will continue to do this over time until operation of that zone runs long enough for the soil moisture to sense the moisture in the soil. A maximum run time may manually or automatically be entered into the program. This will be a value that is higher than the programmed run time. This will restrict the controller from excessive over watering of a zone in the event that the controller does not get a signal from the sensor that the soil is moist. If this occurs the controller may display a fault warning for that sensor. Also if the soil moisture control unit detects that the soil is moist but the irrigation cycle is still running it will allow that irrigation cycle to continue.

After the cycle is complete the soil moisture control unit will calculate the amount of time the zone ran and compare that with the amount of time it took to moisten the soil. It will then automatically reduce the associated seasonal adjustment of the irrigation controller so the irrigation cycle time will match the amount of time required to irrigate the soil to the proper moisture. This is repeated each time the irrigation controller operates that zone to continually fine tune the watering schedule.

Another situation occurs when the soil moisture sensors may not be placed in an optimum location on the irrigation site. As an example a soil moisture sensor may be placed in an area that receives late afternoon shade. This will result in the calculation of an abnormally high estimated soil moisture content value for the rest of the irrigation site. The entire irrigation site may receive too little water and the plant material may become stressed from too little water if the watering schedules are based on an abnormally high estimated soil moisture content. If a conventional soil moisture based irrigation controller receives input from such an incorrectly located soil moisture sensor the user can attempt to compensate by increasing the run times for each zone to compensate for the error. This is cumbersome and makes it difficult and frustrating for the user to adjust the conventional soil moisture based irrigation controller for optimum watering.

An advantage of the present invention is the ability to modify the watering programs of the stand alone irrigation controller to compensate for this type of condition. If at any time the user realizes that a controlled zone is receiving too little water the user can simply manually change an overall watering adjustment feature for that associated program. The overall watering adjustment feature is implemented as a simple plus or minus control via actuation of an assigned pair of the push buttons . This changes the reference point of the soil moisture requirement calculation either up or down. After this adjustment is made the seasonal adjustment executed by the soil moisture control unit references the new setting and then compensates for under watering that would otherwise occur. Likewise if the overall watering is too much for the controlled zone the user can simply adjust the overall watering adjustment feature down and create a new lower reference for the automatic soil moisture based adjustments. The overall watering adjustment feature makes it easy for the user to fine tune the system to the particular requirements of the irrigation zone. The overall watering adjustment feature can be indicated by showing global adjustment or more less water or similar naming conventions. In the case where more than one sensor is installed this feature can be used to modify each assigned sensor independently of the others.

In calculating the estimated soil moisture requirement value the microcontroller in the soil moisture control unit uses only select data points as variables soil moisture readings and optional temperature measurements and may use other data points that consist of pre programmed constants and or data entered by the user that defines some one or more constants of the site.

Another feature provided by the soil moisture control unit is an automatic shut down feature for irrigation that overrides any scheduled run times. The automatic shut down feature of the soil moisture control unit can be utilized in geographic areas where watering agencies and municipalities impose restrictions that limit the times when irrigation can occur. The user is able to enter a no water window into the soil moisture control unit which consists of the times when irrigation is not allowed to take place. When a no water window is entered by the user the soil moisture control unit will signal the irrigation controller to shut down irregardless of any scheduled irrigation running or not running at the time. The soil moisture control unit will then allow the irrigation controller to return to its normal run mode after the selected no water window time has elapsed. The irrigation controller may have sensor input terminals which can be used to shut down all watering on receipt of a shut down command from the soil moisture control unit .

In summary the soil moisture control unit of the present invention utilizes the watering program set up procedures that the users are already accustomed to. Start times station run times and days to water are manually entered into the irrigation controller . When multiple sensors are installed the user can assign a specific sensor to a specific program of the irrigation controller. Each watering program will have one or more zones assigned to it. The user also selects from one of a group selected sensors in the soil moisture control unit . The soil moisture control unit then automatically takes over setting of the seasonal adjustment feature of each of the zones of the irrigation controller on a regular basis. Instead of a user changing these settings several times per year the soil moisture control unit sets these seasonal adjustments program by program as required depending on current soil conditions gathered on site. Furthermore the soil moisture control unit shuts down any scheduled watering by the irrigation controller when there is a scheduled no water window to comply with local agency regulations.

The present invention also provides a unique method of controlling a plurality of valves on an irrigation site. The method includes the steps of selecting and or creating one or more watering schedules assigning those watering schedules to one or more watering programs storing the watering programs and generating a signal representative of the soil moisture condition associated with any one or more of the watering programs on an irrigation site. The method also includes the steps of calculating an estimated soil moisture requirement value for the schedules associated with each assigned program based at least in part on the signal and selectively turning a plurality of valves located on the irrigation site ON and OFF in accordance with each assigned watering schedule. Importantly the method includes the further step of automatically modifying each assigned watering program based on the estimated soil moisture requirement value using a seasonal adjust algorithm to thereby conserve water while maintaining the health of plants on the irrigation site. Optionally the method of the present invention may further include the step of inputting an overall watering adjustment and independently modifying each assigned watering program through the seasonal adjust algorithm based on the estimated soil moisture requirement value as increased or decreased by the inputted overall watering adjustment.

While the a soil moisture sensor of any type can be combined with some intelligence microcontroller at the sensor itself and made to communicate with the control unit via the MMBTA92 and LM393 as discussed earlier it may be more cost effective to deal with the raw sensor interface than to add this intelligence in every soil moisture sensor. An example of this approach for a resistive soil moisture sensor is illustrated in .

This type of sensor varies its resistance based on the amount of moisture in the soil. It is very important that there be no DC potential between any metallic part of the sensor and earth ground. If such a potential exists the sensor will disintegrate due to the well known process of galvanic corrosion. Referring to the schematic diagram of and the flowchart of it will be understood that first transistors Q and Q turn ON and the resistance of the sensor is measured using the sensing resistor and an A D input of the microcontroller. Then Q and Q are turned OFF and transistors Q and Q are turned ON and the measurement repeated. Both readings should be about the same but are averaged to increase accuracy. During the first measurement a DC voltage of one polarity is applied to the sensor. During the second measurement an opposite polarity DC voltage is applied to the sensor thus the time average DC voltage that the sensor sees is zero. Furthermore during the vast majority of the time when no readings are being taken all transistors are OFF and there is no potential on the sensor. This approach eliminates the galvanic corrosion that would otherwise occur.

The relationship of resistance to soil moisture is typically non linear thus the microcontroller can apply a polynomial expansion or lookup table function to determine the amount of moisture in the soil from the resistance reading.

The present invention also provides a unique method to automatically develop irrigation programs using soil moisture based control technology. A C are flow charts that illustrate how an irrigation controller that uses soil moisture sensors can establish the irrigation programs automatically. The controller has the ability to automatically establish all of the watering schedules for each program that has a soil moisture sensor associated with it. After the user has completed the wiring and installation of all of the irrigation components and sensors the user will do some simple entries on the controller to associate certain zones with certain programs. This may include the steps of assigning one or more master zones with each master zone having a soil moisture sensor communicating to it. Each master zone will be assigned to a program. Then the user then assigns associated zones to each program. The user may for example assign all of the stations that irrigate turf in the sun to one program. If all of the zones that irrigate turf in the sun have sprinklers that wet the area at the same precipitation rate then only one sensor is necessary in only one of the zones. This zone is referred to as the master zone. Likewise all stations that water turf in the shade may be assigned to another seasonal adjustment. This may continue to add other zones such as those used for potted plants those used for planters with over head watering those used for planters with drip those used for watering trees etc. Each associated zone can be programmed to run the same time as the master zone or a percentage higher or lower than the master zone. This allows the user to vary the times of each zone as may be required by different precipitation rates or other environmental factors affecting that zone.

The method illustrated in further includes the step of starting the controllers irrigation in an automatic programming mode. In the automatic programming mode the controller runs the first master zone until the soil moisture sensor senses that the soil is moist. The controller then sets this time as the run time for the first master zone and calculates the run time for each associated zone assigned to it. The controller repeats this function for each of the remaining master zones. Once the time values have been established for each of the zones the user set the controller to run automatically. The controller will monitor each automatically programmed master zone to determine how many days it takes for the sensor to dry out. When each of the sensors sense that the zone associated with it is dry the controller will set the delay time between watering values for that program and begin irrigating according to the watering schedule.

Thus the system described herein can automatically generate a watering schedule where one does not exist at all through a self teaching routine. The system can continuously modify the automatically generated watering schedule in addition to modifying the seasonal adjustment. Air and or soil temperature can optionally be added to the calculations. The system includes the ability for the operator to manually set an overall watering adjustment feature to modify the adjustments normally made by the system to compensate for factors such as shade excess sun less than ideal installations etc. The system can also include an automatic irrigation shut off over ride feature to meet local municipality requirements.

While embodiments of an irrigation system comprising a stand alone soil moisture control unit connected to stand alone irrigation controller and linked to one or more separate soil moisture sensors have been described in detail persons skilled in the art will appreciate that the present invention can be modified in arrangement and detail. The features and functionality described could be provided by combining the irrigation controller and the soil moisture control unit into a single integrated unit in which case a single microcontroller would replace the microcontrollers and . Alternatively the soil moisture control unit could be packaged in a soil moisture control module designed for removable insertion into a receptacle in a stand alone irrigation controller. The irrigation controller may be mounted outside or be connected directly to 110 or 220 AC power with a transformer mounted inside the irrigation controller. The soil moisture sensors or communications hubs may be powered by batteries that may be replaceable or rechargeable. Rechargeable batteries may be recharged using any charging technology including solar water or wind powered generators. The functions of the distributed system illustrated in could be all be implemented in a stand alone controller working through a single micro processor without need for the separate soil moisture control unit. Therefore the protection afforded the subject invention should only be limited in accordance with the scope of the following claims.

