---

title: Current sharing power system
abstract: A power system controller includes multiple channels and each channel has a current sharing controller that is coupled to a shared current signal bus and a shared voltage signal bus.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08351229&OS=08351229&RS=08351229
owner: The Aerospace Corporation
number: 08351229
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100324
---
The invention was made with Government support under contract No. FA8802 04 C 0001 by the Department of the Air Force. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present application is related to applicant s copending applications U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 378 857 filed Feb. 20 2009 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 713 826 filed Feb. 21 2007.

This application incorporates U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 378 857 filed Feb. 20 2009 in its entirety and for all purposes. In particular the disclosures relating to including pages 16 21 of the patent application concerning the output voltage regulator and the current sharing controller are incorporated.

The invention relates to the field of power systems. More particularly the present invention relates to a power system having multiple channels and means for balancing channel currents.

Isolated AC to DC power systems with active power factor correction APFC have been used in several applications involving active power factor correction for drawing sinusoidal currents from utility grids or input AC power sources and regulation of DC output voltages being isolated from the grid or the input power sources. Without active current sharing parallel connection of these identical power systems respectively at their AC inputs and DC outputs is not feasible as a result of far from uniform current sharing among the paralleled power channels.

When parallel connected only one or a few power channels have a dominant power contribution while the remaining power channels are idle or make small contributions to the common output load. In many cases the over subscribed power channels have increased unreliability and shortened lifetimes due to inter alfa persistent thermal overstresses.

The parallel connection disability discourages the application of the existing low power AC to DC converter systems for large loads having demands exceeding the power rating of individual AC to DC power systems. Consequently conventionally designed AC to DC power systems are not typically ganged together to supply large loads. Instead a newly designed stand alone APFC and converter power stage suited to the higher power demand is the typical solution. In other words incremental power expansion is not feasible with conventional AC to DC power systems supplying a common load that grows to exceed the capacity of the original power system.

The present invention offers in various embodiments one or more improvements over the prior art. These include current sharing control approaches and similar improvements discussed below.

In an example a power system controller includes multiple channels and each channel has a current sharing controller that is coupled to a shared current signal bus and a shared voltage signal bus. As a consequence of multiple current sharing controllers with the two commonly shared buses multiple power channels of an AC to DC converter power system with active power factor correction can be parallel connected to achieve uniform power sharing and input output electrical isolation without conflicts in the system output voltage regulation. The parallel connected source or independent AC power sources may possess different frequencies phases and voltages.

In an example current sharing control approaches are blended with existing control of back end commercial off the shelf COTS converters. Here the converter outputs are parallel connected across a common load and uniform current sharing among the channel output currents is achieved while maintaining output voltage regulation performance. These control approaches are also applicable to distributed AC power sources each of which is independently connected to the input of the respective AC to DC power channel resulting in multiple channels of distributed AC to DC power systems that equally share their power flows into the same load.

In an embodiment an electric power system balances output currents of a plurality of power channels serving a common load. Here the electric power system comprises a plurality of power channels each power channel including a front end AC to DC converter with active power factor control coupled to a back end isolated DC to DC converter via a DC link a PWM modulator interconnected with the DC to DC converter a current sensor operable to provide a sensed current signal derived from a DC to DC converter output a voltage regulator operable to provide a voltage error signal derived from the DC to DC converter output and a current sharing controller. Each DC to DC converter output is connected in parallel across a common load. A voltage signal bus is shared by each of the current sharing controllers and the bus operable to share a dominant reference voltage signal derived from a selected voltage error signal. A current signal bus is shared by each of the current sharing controllers and the bus is operable to share a reference current signal derived from the sensed current signals of the current sharing controllers. A current error signal is derived from the sensed current signal and the reference current signal and each current sharing controller has an output derived from the current error signal and the dominant reference voltage signal the output being coupled to a respective PWM modulator by an electrically isolated signal path.

The disclosure provided in the following pages describes examples of some embodiments of the invention. The designs figures and description are non limiting examples of embodiments of the invention. For example other embodiments of the disclosed systems and methods may or may not include the features described herein. Moreover disclosed advantages and benefits may apply to only certain embodiments of the invention and should be not used to limit the disclosed inventions.

Shown in current mode PWM modulator has inputs including inputs coupled to the sensed input current terminal of the converter and to an output of the IOVR . The conventional PWM modulator shown in has an input coupled to an output of the IOVR . The IOVR includes an output voltage regulator OVR and an interconnected isolation device such as an opto isolator. The opto isolator is coupled to an input ground . The OVR has inputs coupled to Vand a ground and an output coupled to the isolation device. In various embodiments ground and input ground are electrically isolated. Also coupled to the OVR output are OPTO and Verr nodes .

Regulation error voltage Verr is produced by the OVR and is transferred with electrical isolation to the input of the current mode PWM modulator through the opto coupler circuit . In this manner the opto coupler control voltage input node OPTO is connected directly to the error voltage . Therefore the overall AC to DC power system is designed for stand alone applications in which the system load demand must not exceed the power rating of the power system. Attempts to parallel connect multiple power systems particularly those with conventional PWM will lead to severely unequal sharing among their channel output currents. This results in poor system reliability and poor utilization of one or more channels that are not active in their power transfers. Due to the input output isolation within the back end converter and the feedback isolation within the opto coupler the output ground is electrically isolated from the converter s input ground the power return of DC link voltage V .

For power systems having back end converters with dedicated current mode PWM control and APFC front end stages independently sourced by different AC voltages non uniform channel output currents exist when the current mode PWM control in each back end converter fails to directly regulate the converter s output current. This non uniform channel output current sharing occurs when the intermediate DC link voltages Vdiffer due to factors including component mismatches and or differences in rated DC link voltages of the front end APFC stages resulting from different design versions totally different designs or different manufacturing processes.

In an embodiment each of the cascaded stages includes back end converters with current sharing controllers as shown in . In some embodiments one or more back end converters have conventional PWM modulators see . By breaking the feedback path of the existing IOVR control loop see between the OPTO and Verr nodes see the current sharing control circuit can be inserted across the two nodes for providing a control correction such as a minor control correction to the regulation error voltage Verr. This allows regulation of the scaled and low pass filtered sensed current signal Ito a common shared bus reference current signal at node SBI and at which all SBI nodes belonging to the back end converters are tied together via the SBI bus as shown in .

The error voltage at node SBV becomes the dominant error signal that is used in common for regulating the system output voltage to a value corresponding to the highest reference voltage belonging to the IOVR controller within a back end converter. In this manner there is no conflict in regulation of the system output voltage since only one IOVR controller belonging to a back end converter commonly controls all the paralleled output back end converters.

Within the current sharing controller a current sharing error amplifier outputs a current error signal Iderived from Iand SBI. A low pass filter and scaler derives Ifrom Iand a current shared reference circuit derives SBI from I.

The current sharing error signal Ierr serves as a control correction such as a minor control correction being added by a summer to the primary control signal SBV to form a composite regulation signal that is subsequently scaled or amplified to properly control the opto coupler circuit in the IOVR controller within the back end converter through node OPTO . In a stand alone configuration with a single channel AC to DC power system nodes SBI and SBV are floating not connected externally and the system output voltage is regulated like the conventional configuration of .

Use of dual shared buses SBI SBV causes current sharing performance to be independent from mismatches among the reference voltages and component values that are distributed in the respective IOVR circuits of the back end converters because all current sharing error signals Ierrare independently produced and mixed with the commonly shared OVR error signal SBV. And because all of the back end converters are controlled in unison by the same control voltage at the SBV node to continuously regulate the system output voltage corresponding to the dominant reference voltage the system output voltage regulation is unaffected by the current sharing error signals that are minor corrections for equalizing output currents.

When properly inserted the current sharing control enables parallel connection of multiple AC to DC power systems for service in a single stand alone power channel for a single AC power source as shown in and as multiple power channels for uniform power transfers from independent AC power sources that could have different voltages and operating frequencies such as two AC to DC power channels for two independent power sources as shown in .

Simulations show power sharing is improved in a two channel power system with two parallel connected AC to DC power systems similar to those shown in .

An AC source voltage transition from 375 V to 125 V of its voltage amplitude produces a system response of output voltage and AC input currents without active current sharing. Current response shows severely mismatched currents between the two AC input channel currents Iand I. Prior to and sufficiently after the AC input voltage transition the output voltage V indicates good regulation during steady state. Similarly the DC link voltages of the two power channels Vand Vare also well regulated during steady state. As seen the input current of power channel 2 Ifar exceeds that of power channel 1 I consequently the DC link voltage of power channel 2 Valso exhibits more significant transient voltage sag below that of power channel 1 Vbefore both of them resume their steady state regulation after time t 575 mSec.

An AC source voltage transition from 375 V to 125 V of its voltage amplitude produces a system response of output voltage and AC input currents with active current sharing. The channel input currents and Iare uniformly distributed as shown by their overlapping waveforms into a single line . The system output voltage remains well regulated despite the amplitude change in the system input voltage.

In an embodiment with an AC power system such as that of distributed AC power sources of different operating frequencies and different AC voltages supply two power channels. As before use of the shared SBI bus results in uniform current sharing between the channel output currents despite having two independent AC power sources with different operating frequencies for example 50 Hz and 60 Hz.

An experimental prototype of the two channel AC to DC converter power system with a configuration similar to that of was implemented for a single 60 Hz AC source. The prototype employs a current shared bus SBI as the central limit current reference signal to which the sensed channel output current signal of each AC to DC power channel is regulated.

For an independently sourced two channel power system depicted in shows the prototype response to a voltage change B. Vin the AC input voltage of the second power channel has its RMS value stepping between 90 V and 130 V while V the output voltage of the parallel connected DC channel outputs and I the channel 1 input current remain undisturbed.

Another embodiment shows balanced currents among the phases of a three phase AC supply. shows a three phase dual shared bus control scheme . As shown the control scheme is applied to achieve uniform power sharing among three phases of AC input voltages typical of a three phase utility grid. Notably there is no requirement for 50 60 Hz isolation transformers between the three phase input voltages and the three channel AC to DC converter system. These isolation transformers are not needed because the intermediate DC bus voltages V Vand Vare not only decoupled from one another but are also isolated from the system output voltage Vand the output power ground. Tying current shared buses and voltage shared buses respectively together ensures proper operation for both the system output voltage regulation and the well balanced three phase currents drawn from the utility grid.

As the simulation and experimental data show the control schemes for uniform output current sharing for a two channel AC to DC converter power system with active power factor correction are validated. In various embodiments electrical isolation between input and output of each AC to DC converter power channel enables current sharing. And in various embodiments the current sharing schemes with dual shared buses operate without causing conflicts in the system output voltage regulation control among parallel connected power channels and current sharing performance is independent from mismatch in internal reference voltages and component values within the output voltage regulation control circuits distributed within respective AC to DC converters.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various changes in the form and details can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. As such the breadth and scope of the present invention should not be limited by the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and equivalents thereof.

