---

title: Using game play elements to motivate learning
abstract: Elements of game play, such as usage statistics, scores, levels, challenges, achievements, competition, and the like, are incorporated into a productivity application to assist in motivating users to learn features of the productivity application. A recommendation system is utilized to assist users in determining what features of the application to learn next. Help content that is associated with the productivity application can also be tied to the features that are currently being learned and used by the user such that the linked help content is readily available. Users may compare their scores and compete with other persons that are also participating in the game play learning system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08979538&OS=08979538&RS=08979538
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 08979538
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100528
---
The present application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 492 588 filed Jun. 26 2009 which is incorporated by reference and claims the benefit of the earlier filing date under 35 U.S.C. 120.

Many individuals spend a lot of time trying to become proficient at software games. For example in order to maximize their points and complete all of the objectives of a game users attempt to learn in detail how each level and other aspects of the game works. Some individuals even play the game to the point where the game stops being fun and starts being a chore in order to become proficient.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Elements of game play such as usage statistics scores levels challenges achievements competition and the like are incorporated into a productivity application to assist in motivating users to learn features of the productivity application. A recommendation system is utilized to assist users in determining what features of the application to learn. Help content that is associated with the productivity application can also be tied to the features that are currently being learned and used by the user such that the linked help content is readily available. Users may compare their scores and compete with other persons that are also participating in the game play learning system.

Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals represent like elements various embodiments will be described. In particular and the corresponding discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which embodiments may be implemented.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures and other types of structures that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Other computer system configurations may also be used including multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. Distributed computing environments may also be used where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

Referring now to an illustrative computer architecture for a computer utilized in the various embodiments will be described. The computer architecture shown in may be configured as a desktop a server or mobile computer and includes a central processing unit CPU a system memory including a random access memory RAM and a read only memory ROM and a system bus that couples the memory to the CPU . A basic input output system containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during startup is stored in the ROM . The computer further includes a mass storage device for storing an operating system application programs and other program modules which will be described in greater detail below.

The mass storage device is connected to the CPU through a mass storage controller not shown connected to the bus . The mass storage device and its associated computer readable media provide non volatile storage for the computer . Although the description of computer readable media contained herein refers to a mass storage device such as a hard disk or CD ROM drive the computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer .

The term computer readable media as used herein may include computer storage media. Computer storage media may include volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all computer storage media examples i.e memory storage. Computer storage media may include but is not limited to RAM ROM electrically erasable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store information and which can be accessed by computing device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device . Computing device may also have input device s such as a keyboard a mouse a pen a sound input device a touch input device etc. Output device s such as a display speakers a printer etc. may also be included. The aforementioned devices are examples and others may be used.

The term computer readable media as used herein may also include communication media. Communication media may be embodied by computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may describe a signal that has one or more characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media may include wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic radio frequency RF infrared and other wireless media

According to various embodiments computer operates in a networked environment using logical connections to remote computers through a network such as the Internet. The computer may connect to the network through a network interface unit connected to the bus . The network connection may be wireless and or wired. The network interface unit may also be utilized to connect to other types of networks and remote computer systems. The computer may also include an input output controller for receiving and processing input from a number of other devices including a keyboard mouse or electronic stylus not shown in . Similarly an input output controller may provide output to a display screen that includes a user interface a printer or other type of output device. User interface UI is designed to provide a user with a visual way to interact with application that incorporates game play elements for learning features of the application as well as to interact with other functionality that is included on computing device .

As mentioned briefly above a number of program modules and data files may be stored in the mass storage device and RAM of the computer including an operating system suitable for controlling the operation of a networked computer such as the WINDOWS 7 operating system from MICROSOFT CORPORATION of Redmond Wash. The mass storage device and RAM may also store one or more program modules. In particular the mass storage device and the RAM may store one or more application programs. One of the application programs is a productivity application such as one of the MICROSOFT OFFICE programs.

Generally productivity application is an application that a user utilizes in order to complete a task such as authoring a document in a word processing program programming a feature authoring a spreadsheet and the like. Productivity application is an application such as a word processing program a presentation program a spreadsheet program a database program a programming environment and the like. Feature manager is configured to incorporate elements of game play into productivity application to assist in motivating users to learn how to use features of the application. For example the elements of game play that may be incorporated into the application may include items such as usage statistics scores levels challenges achievements competition and the like. Feature manager is configured to track the usage of the features within the application by a user and provide the user with feedback relating to the usage of the features as well as to provide recommendations on what features to learn next. The recommendations may be based on what features the user has already learned and or based on what features the user s peers are using. Feature manager is also configured to link help content that is associated with the productivity application with the features that are currently being used by the user such that the help content for the feature that is currently being used is available to the user with a single selection. Feature Manager is configured to incorporate the use of a social networking site such that a user s peers may be obtained for competition and provide updates to the user and the user s peers as to accomplishments using the productivity application.

In order to facilitate communication with the feature manager one or more callback routines illustrated in as callback code may be implemented. Through the use of the callback code the feature manager may query for additional information used in incorporating the elements of game play within productivity application . For example feature manager may request to be informed when a user transitions to another feature within the application. Other information may also be provided that relate to the features of the application. As discussed above feature manager is configured to incorporate game play elements into productivity application .

Feature manager utilizes a tracking system that provides statistics and usage reporting based on what features the user is utilizing in the application. The features that are tracked may be any features included within the application. For example the features may be a base set of features that broadly covers the functionality of the application or some other set of features within the application. Feature manager may store this tracked information for the user as well as a group of other users. The group of the other users may be determined from a social networking site associated with the user and or from other sources. For example company organization charts buddy lists email lists and the like may be used. The features used by the user and tracked by tracking system are also used to determine a score for the user as determined by score tracker as well as provide recommendations to the user as to what features to learn next.

Score tracker is configured to map the usage information for a feature s into a quantifiable value that may be converted into points badges levels scores and the like. Feature manager is also configured to provide different challenges to a user that allows them to accumulate additional points badges and the like while learning a new feature of application .

According to an embodiment a leader board and other score displays are provided that allows the user to see how they are performing both individually as well as how they are performing relative to other users. For example the group may be a work group a set of designated friends friends from one or more social networking sites users who have a same work title users in the same profession and the like. In this way a user may compare their scores and learning experience to other similarly situated users. Scores and accomplishments may be delivered to other users automatically and or manually. For example a user s friends on a social networking site may be notified when a user achieves a certain number of points and or an accomplishment in one of the productivity applications. A user s wall on the social networking site may also be updated with messages indicating the user s progress in the productivity application.

Score tracker is configured to determine when a user reaches a predetermined score such that the user is provided with a reward. For example the reward may be unlocking videos pictures games customization of the application and the like. Score tracker may also be configured to provide performance information relating to head to head competition between two or more users. For example a user could challenge one or more other users to play the same challenge. The results of these challenges may be delivered to other users through messages such as text messages email messages messages to social networking sites and the like. Feature manager may also be configured to initiate head to head competitions. According to one embodiment points are provided to the user in the head to head competition who completes the challenge fastest and or most efficiently uses the features of the application to complete the challenge.

Recommended features is configured to provide recommendations and challenges to the user for what to learn next based on what the user has done or not done within the application and based on the social element of what features within the productivity application other users are using and or have already learned. The recommended features that are suggested may be based on features that enhance the features the user is currently using. For example if the user uses three features out of a group of five related features the other two features that are not used by the user may be suggested. Recommended features may also present features that are not available in the user s version of the productivity application but are available in a newer version of the application. In this way a user may learn about features that may be useful to them but may not be aware of since they are not using the most current version of the productivity application.

Feature manager is coupled to help system such that help content that is supplied by the productivity application is provided to the user based on what features actions the user is or is not doing relating to the application. According to an embodiment the help system is the help content that is natively provided by productivity application . For example when a user is learning feature one as determined by tracking system the help content relating to feature one may be automatically linked to the feature such that the user may directly select help for the feature without having to search for the desired help content. Feature manager tracks what the user is doing and then proactively surfaces help topics for that user.

Feature manager is also configured to be expandable through one or more expansions . Expansions may add functionality to feature manager before or after the deployment of productivity application . For example one or more challenge expansions that add new game learning elements may be created by the developer of productivity application and or third party developers and then integrated and utilized by feature manager to present the challenge. The expansions may be integrated with feature manager using many different methods. For example the expansion may be a patch to the productivity application a plug in and the like.

Display is configured to provide the user with a visual display of their score as well as provide recommendations to the user and present the user with challenges See FIGURES below for exemplary user interfaces .

Feature manager is also coupled to other applications such that information relating to the scores and recommendations may be provided to the other application as well as receiving information from the other applications. For example feature manager may be coupled to a social networking site such that when a user accesses the social networking site they are able to see how they are performing using application as well as see how their linked associates are performing. Feature manager may also post this performance and recommendation information to other locations such as including the information within a news feed of a social networking site and or some other location that is available by users. Another example application that may be linked is a messaging application such that the performance information recommendations can be delivered to one or more users. Feature manager may also be coupled to a backend data store that is used to store the performance and recommendation information. Data store may be a network data store and or a local data store.

Different computers may be used by the same user when performing challenges and interacting with the productivity application. As a result a user may accumulate points on one or more different computers. Data store may be configured to provide feature manager with the most current score information for a user such that points obtained across different computer systems by the user are combined to create a single score that incorporates all of the points of the different computing systems. This score information may be obtained in different ways. For example the globally stored score information may be obtained when a user logs onto a system and or connects to a social networking site. When the user logs onto the system the most current score information is obtained and is used to update the globally stored score information with the locally stored information. Upon logging onto the system the system may determine that the points on the local system do not match the globally stored information. According to one embodiment a social network identifier is used to uniquely identify the user within the database and obtain the score information for that user. The points stored locally on the computer are compared to the globally obtained scores and a union of the points from the challenges is used to update the scores for the user.

As illustrated user score shows a score of that is based on the features that a user has utilized within the application. In order to increase the score a user can accumulate points by using more features or groups of features that are associated with the productivity application. In the present example the productivity application is a word processing application. Other applications may also be utilized. For example the performance information may relate to another application within a suite of programs and or the entire suite of applications. According to one embodiment the more difficult the feature or set of features utilized the higher the value that is associated with the score.

Graph area displays how the points making up user score are distributed. In this way a user can see what parts of the application they are using and how proficient they are at using the features. Graph area also provides score comparisons based on other groups of users. As discussed above these other user groups may be determined from the user s profession people who work for the same company all users people at the user s similar level in the productivity application people who utilize the application similarly to the user people in the user s zip code age group gender social networking groups and the like. A group from which to compare may be selected by utilizing button .

Exemplary user interface provides recommendations e.g. based on the top features the selected group is using that the user is not currently using and or based on the features used by the user. In the present example three recommendations have been provided to the user. In order to learn these unused features a training challenge may be associated with each suggestion. In the present example text wrapping around a picture is recommended for a user. When the user selects one of the recommendations i.e. clicking on text wrapping the user is presented with a display that shows where the feature exists in the productivity application a before picture and after picture that illustrates the benefits of using the feature and different types of training such as a short video demo a challenge which is like a small game or puzzle where the user is challenged to use the feature inside the application and a tie in to existing help content.

Selection area allows a user to select a group from which the recommendations provided to the user are based as well as the groups average achievement score. For example when one group is selected a first set of recommendations is provided whereas when another group is selected a second set of recommendations is provided. In this example the recommendations are based on how the selected group uses the application and the user is not using the application. For instance when the user compares himself to Group A and Group A uses feature X that the user does not a recommendation provided to the user is to learn feature X. If the user then compares himself to Group B and Group B does not use feature X but instead uses feature Y feature Y is recommended to the user.

Referring now to illustrative processes for employing game elements to motivate learning within a productivity application is described.

When reading the discussion of the routines presented herein it should be appreciated that the logical operations of various embodiments are implemented 1 as a sequence of computer implemented acts or program modules running on a computing system and or 2 as interconnected machine logic circuits or circuit modules within the computing system. The implementation is a matter of choice dependent on the performance requirements of the computing system implementing the invention. Accordingly the logical operations illustrated and making up the embodiments described herein are referred to variously as operations structural devices acts or modules. These operations structural devices acts and modules may be implemented in software in firmware in special purpose digital logic and any combination thereof.

After a start operation the process flows to operation where the features within an application that are utilized by a user are tracked. The features tracked relate to features within one or more areas of the application. For example the features may be divided according to functions performed within the application i.e. formatting text pictures and the like .

Moving to operation a score is calculated for each feature that is utilized. When a user utilizes a new feature a score is attached to that action. The score may be dependent upon many factors such as feature utilized time the feature is utilized difficulty level and the like.

Flowing to operation recommendations are determined for a user. The recommendations on what feature to learn next may be based on different items including what the user has done or not done within the application and what features other users are using.

Transitioning to operation the recommendations are provided to the user. The recommendations may be provided many different ways. For example the recommendations may be provided within a user interface the recommendations may be provided within a social networking site and or an electronic message may be sent to the user that includes the recommendations.

Moving to operation the score is displayed to the user. As previously discussed the score displayed may include an individual score as well as scoring information as it relates to one or more groups of users.

After a start operation the process flows to operation where a recommended feature is selected. According to one embodiment the feature is selected from a group of recommended features that are selected for the user.

Moving to operation the help content that relates to the selected feature within the application is linked to a training challenge for the feature. The linked help content is readily available for the user without the user having to search for a specific help topic.

Flowing to operation a training challenge for the feature is provided to the user. The training challenge allows the user to use the application in order to practice the feature while at the same time presenting the challenge using game playing elements.

Moving to operation a score is calculated based on the interaction with the features during the challenge.

Flowing to operation the user score is updated and displayed to the user. The user may also be provided with a new recommendation on what feature to learn next.

As illustrated score shows a score of out of total points for the application. In order to increase the score a user can select challenges from challenge lists provided with each area of the application and and or use features directly within the application. In the present example the productivity application is a word processing application. Other applications may also be utilized. For example the performance information may relate to another application within a suite of programs and or the entire suite of applications.

Each area of the application in which points may be awarded includes a score display for that area. For example the Working with Text area shows that a user may obtain a total of points by successfully completed the displayed challenges . In this way a user can quickly see what parts of the application they are using and how proficient they are at using the features.

Page design and Layout section accounts for 128 points. Getting Artistic section accounts for 136 points and Quick Points section accounts for 44 points. According to one embodiment a bar graph is filled in as a user accumulates more points for that section. Under each of the sections a challenge list selection is provided. Selection of one of the challenge list links expands the selected section and reveals the available challenges to a user see .

Display area provides the user with a recommended challenge and or a challenge that the user has manually selected. Next to each challenge an indication is provided to the user as to whether or not they have completed the challenge. According to one embodiment a star next to the challenge is unfilled when the challenge has not been completed and filled when the challenge has been completed.

A user may decide to connect to a social networking site directly from interface using button . When a user selects button they will enter any needed information and be connected to a social networking site. Upon connecting to the social networking site more information may be provided to the user and incorporated into the challenge and score display See .

As discussed previously sound effects can be provided during the task. For example when a user moves over a correct menu location a sound may be played to the user such that they are provided with feedback that they are over the correct location. Different sounds may be played when the user completes the task without any hints as compared to completing the task with other hints.

Display provides another congratulations display that shows the Aa Capitalization task was completed and that the task was completed with maximum efficiency i.e. the minimum number of steps was used to complete the challenge . According to one embodiment more points are awarded to the user when they use what they have learned within the challenge while working with documents.

Display also shows interface that provides a list of selected users that the user would like to be compared against. According to one embodiment when the user logs onto a system such as through a social networking site list is provides. As can be seen list shows three users along with their current scores for the currently selected productivity application. Display shows the user comparing their score for the Built in Themes challenge to user Tom.

As illustrated the user has selected user Jeff to be compared against. Comparison display shows that the user is currently beating Jeff Referring to indicators it can be seen that both the current user s scores are displayed within the slider bar as well as displaying the user s score that has been selected for comparison. For example in the Getting Artistic section the user has 52 points and the selected user for comparison Jeff has 40 points. Display shows that for a currently selected challenge Text to Timeline Challenge the user has 0 points and Jeff has 6 of 12 available points. The user may choose another person to be compared with at any time. In addition a user may select a user to challenge. A user may select one of the users from interface and have a message sent to that selected user issuing a challenge. For example a user may right click on a person within display and select a context menu to issue the challenge.

Challenges may also be shown that are presented in an application and or a version of the application that is not currently being used by the user. For example if a user is running the challenges using a first version of the productivity application and more features are provided in another version of the application then the user may desire to obtain the new version. In the current example in the challenges list shown in the Getting Artistic section two options not available in the user s version of the application are shown Photo Corrections and Artistic Effects . A user may be supplied with more information upon selection and or automatically by the application See and related discussion .

According to one embodiment users are also distinguished based on the version of the application they are using. In the current example referring to comparison display it can be seen that Jeff is using a newer version of the application as compared to the user.

Notice is displayed when it has been determined that the points on the current user s computer do not match the total number of points earned by the user. As discussed a user may accumulate points on one or more different computers. When the previous scores for the user are accessed and a discrepancy has been determined notice may be provided to the user to obtain confirmation that they would like the current scores updated.

As illustrated includes display and display . Display shows the user features that are available in a newer version of the application that they are using. In the current example section shows that two features are available in a newer version of the POWERPOINT Application from MICROSOFT CORPORATION. The two new features illustrated are Photo Corrections and Artistic Effects. Any number of new features may be presented in one or more of the challenge lists relating to the application. As shown the two new features are distinguished from the available features of the application by presenting a different version number next to the challenge i.e. . When a user selects a new feature display shows the user a preview of the new feature. A user may be presented within an option e.g. option to upgrade to the newer version of the application and or to try out the new feature. For example the new feature could be used within an online version of the application and or the new feature could be downloaded to the current computing system. In the current example the user is limited in the points they may obtain since they can not perform the challenge in the newer version of the application. When the user upgrades to the newer version of the application the newer version indicator in this case is removed from the challenge. In addition to showing the user features of an application that are available in a newer version of the application the users presented within interface or challenge display may show a version of the application they are currently using. For example any user that is using a newer version of the application may include an indicator showing the newer version they are using. Similarly in the current example Jeff is shown to be using the version of the POWERPOINT application in display .

Display shows a page for user Tom that includes posted messages and relating to accomplishments for performing the challenges. The postings to the user s page may occur automatically and or manually. According to one embodiment the user selects options to configure how often they would like messages posted to one or more social networking sites. For example a user may select that for every one hundred points earned a message is uploaded. Messages may also be created and posted for other accomplishments such as a perfect score completion of challenges and the like. A user may also use the social networking site to directly challenge another user and or group of users to a specific challenge.

The above specification examples and data provide a complete description of the manufacture and use of the composition of the invention. Since many embodiments of the invention can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention the invention resides in the claims hereinafter appended.

