---

title: Uninterruptable group communication sessions within a wireless communications system
abstract: A call request message is sent from an access terminal to an application server in order to request initiation of a group communication session to a communication group and to request that an allocation of the floor to the given access terminal for the duration of the given group communication session remain uninterrupted by call targets of the session. The application server announces the session, and sends a floor-grant to the access terminal after the session is accepted by at least one target. The access terminal forwards media to the application server which is then forwarded to the at least one target. The floor is not transferred away from the access terminal during the session. For example, floor requests are suppressed at the at least one target, or floor requests are sent by the at least one target but are then ignored or denied by the application server.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08938498&OS=08938498&RS=08938498
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08938498
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100331
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 61 166 611 entitled UNINTERRUPTABLE GROUP COMMUNICATION SESSIONS WITHIN A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM filed Apr. 3 2009 which is assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

The invention relates to uninterruptable group communication sessions within a wireless communications system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA WCDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In wireless communication systems mobile stations handsets or access terminals AT receive signals from fixed position base stations also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Base stations provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the base stations generally interact with ATs through an over the air interface and with the AN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints ATs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as a group name or group identification.

Conventionally data packets within a wireless communication network have been configured to be sent to a single destination or access terminal. A transmission of data to a single destination is referred to as unicast . As mobile communications have increased the ability to transmit given data concurrently to multiple access terminals has become more important. Accordingly protocols have been adopted to support concurrent data transmissions of the same packet or message to multiple destinations or target access terminals. A broadcast refers to a transmission of data packets to all destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given cell served by a given service provider etc. while a multicast refers to a transmission of data packets to a given group of destinations or access terminals. In an example the given group of destinations or multicast group may include more than one and less than all of possible destinations or access terminals e.g. within a given group served by a given service provider etc. . However it is at least possible in certain situations that the multicast group comprises only one access terminal similar to a unicast or alternatively that the multicast group comprises all access terminals e.g. within a given cell etc. similar to a broadcast.

In addition to various transmission schemes e.g. unicast multicast broadcast that may be used generally a PTT or PTT over Cellular PoC call corresponds to a server mediated communication between two or more identified access terminals regardless of the various configurations used to conduct the PTT calls. Further conventionally PTT calls are initiated and maintained by a physical interaction at the access terminal e.g. pressing and holding a key .

A call request message is sent from an access terminal to an application server in order to request initiation of a group communication session to a communication group and to request that an allocation of the floor to the given access terminal for the duration of the given group communication session remain uninterrupted by call targets of the session. The application server announces the session and sends a floor grant to the access terminal after the session is accepted by at least one target. The access terminal forwards media to the application server which is then forwarded to the at least one target. The floor is not transferred away from the access terminal during the session. For example floor requests are suppressed at the at least one target or floor requests are sent by the at least one target but are then ignored or denied by the application server.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of non transitory computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as an access terminal AT may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more HDR base stations referred to herein as modem pool transceivers MPTs or base stations BS . An access terminal transmits and receives data packets through one or more modem pool transceivers to an HDR base station controller referred to as a modem pool controller MPC base station controller BSC and or packet control function PCF . Modem pool transceivers and modem pool controllers are parts of a network called an access network. An access network transports data packets between multiple access terminals.

The access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the access network such as a corporate intranet or the Internet and may transport data packets between each access terminal and such outside networks. An access terminal that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is called an active access terminal and is said to be in a traffic state. An access terminal that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel connection with one or more modem pool transceivers is said to be in a connection setup state. An access terminal may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel for example using fiber optic or coaxial cables. An access terminal may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to a PC card compact flash external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the access terminal sends signals to the modem pool transceiver is called a reverse link or traffic channel. The communication link through which a modem pool transceiver sends signals to an access terminal is called a forward link or traffic channel. As used herein the term traffic channel can refer to either a forward or reverse traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless system and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote access terminals such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a base station controller packet control function BSC PCF . The BSC PCF is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a packet data service node PDSN and the access terminals . If link layer encryption is enabled the BSC PCF also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the BSC PCF is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The carrier network may communicate with the BSC PCF by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the BSC PCF may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the carrier network and the BSC PCF transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple base stations BS or modem pool transceivers MPT . In a similar manner to the carrier network the BSC PCF is typically connected to the MPT BS by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The MPT BS can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the access terminals such as cellular telephone . The MPT BS BSC PCF and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the BSC PCF and one or more of the MPT BS may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the BSC PCF and the MPT BS .

Referring to the broadcast serving node BSN may be configured to support multicast and broadcast services. The BSN will be described in greater detail below. The BSN communicates with the RAN e.g. the BSC PCF via a broadcast BC A connection and with the application server via the Internet . The BCA connection is used to transfer multicast and or broadcast messaging. Accordingly the application server sends unicast messaging to the PDSN via the Internet and sends multicast messaging to the BSN via the Internet .

Generally as will be described in greater detail below the RAN transmits multicast messages received from the BSN via the BCA connection over a broadcast channel BCH of the air interface to one or more access terminals .

Referring to ATs and . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell phones AT is illustrated as a wireless tablet PC and AT is illustrated as a wired desktop station. However in other embodiments it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system can connect to any type of AT and the examples illustrated in are not intended to limit the types of ATs that may be implemented within the system. Also while the AAA the provisioning server the IMS SIP registration server and the application server are each illustrated as structurally separate servers one or more of these servers may be consolidated in at least one embodiment of the invention.

Further referring to the application server is illustrated as including a plurality of media control complexes MCCs . . . N B and a plurality of regional dispatchers . . . N A. Collectively the regional dispatchers A and MCCs B are included within the application server which in at least one embodiment can correspond to a distributed network of servers that collectively functions to arbitrate communication sessions e.g. half duplex group communication sessions via IP unicasting and or IP multicasting protocols within the wireless communication system . For example because the communication sessions arbitrated by the application server can theoretically take place between ATs located anywhere within the system multiple regional dispatchers A and MCCs are distributed to reduce latency for the arbitrated communication sessions e.g. so that a MCC in North America is not relaying media back and forth between session participants located in China . Thus when reference is made to the application server it will be appreciated that the associated functionality can be enforced by one or more of the regional dispatchers A and or one or more of the MCCs B. The regional dispatchers A are generally responsible for any functionality related to establishing a communication session e.g. handling signaling messages between the ATs scheduling and or sending announce messages etc. whereas the MCCs B are responsible for hosting the communication session for the duration of the call instance including conducting an in call signaling and an actual exchange of media during an arbitrated communication session. Accordingly in another embodiment of the invention the MCCs B may be referred to as PTT application servers and or PTT media distribution servers assuming the arbitrated communication sessions correspond to PTT calls.

Referring to an access terminal here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the carrier network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include an access terminal including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the access terminal in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the access terminal and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA WCDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. The data communication is typically between the client device MPT BS and BSC PCF . The BSC PCF can be connected to multiple data networks such as the carrier network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network and the like thus allowing the access terminal access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the access terminals from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

In a conventional half duplex group communication session the application server grants the floor to one group member at a time and forwards media from the current floor holder to each other group member that has joined the session. The media may be forwarded by the application server based on Internet Protocol IP unicasting protocols e.g. the RAN is instructed to transmit the forwarded media on a downlink dedicated channel separately to each target AT IP multicasting protocols e.g. the RAN is instructed to transmit the forwarded media on a downlink shared channel in at least one sector of the wireless communications system potentially to multiple target ATs within the at least one sector at the same time or a combination thereof. During the group communication session the application server may transfer the floor from one group member to another member i if the current floor holder releases the floor and a new group member then requests the floor ii if a group member with a higher preemption rank than the current floor holder requests the floor while the current floor holder is still sending media iii if the current floor holder has held the floor for a threshold period of time and another group member requests the floor at least a threshold number of time iv if the group communication session restricts floor holders to a given period of time as floor holder and the current floor holder has exceeded the given period of time e.g. a fail safe timer and or v any combination thereof. As will be appreciated i v are simply examples and the floor can be transferred away from the floor holder for other reasons as well e.g. inactivity etc. . In the case of ii an operator of the application server inputs preemption ranks for each of the group members before the session is initiated and then evaluates the relative preemption ranks to resolve floor contention scenarios during an active group communication session such as whether to oust a current floor holder in favor of another group member in the event of a floor request being received while the current floor holder is still speaking As will be appreciated the use of preemption ranks is merely one example of conventional talker arbitration for the group communication session.

It is generally difficult to change the preemption ranks of the group members for specific communication sessions because the operator of the application server typically enters this information manually. Thus if a particular group member wishes to make an announcement to the group but does not want to receive feedback or pass the floor during the announcement the group member i.e. call originator in this case would either have to i have a highest possible preemption rank ii request that the application server s operator temporarily or permanently raise the call originator s preemption rank to the highest level iii or else the call originator will simply have to accept that the floor could potentially be taken away during the session. Thus it is difficult to conduct group communication sessions with a guarantee that the call originator will be uninterrupted with conventional floor handling protocols.

Accordingly embodiments of the invention are directed to ensuring or guaranteeing that call originators with sufficient privileges can conduct uninterruptable group communication sessions without the risk that the call originators will lose the floor to other group members before the sessions have completed. As used herein an uninterruptable group communication session corresponds to a group communication session where the floor cannot be transferred to a session participant other than the call originator. For example even if the group communication session violates one or more operator defined rules by permitting a floor holder to hold onto the floor e.g. the current floor holder has had the floor too long a number of other group members have been constantly requesting the floor the current floor holder is inactive etc. an uninterruptable group communication session will still maintain the call originator as floor holder.

Next the operator of the application server determines whether to allocate an uninterruptable session privilege to any of the group members in determination block . If the operator of the application server determines not to grant or allocate any group member an uninterruptable session privilege in determination block the process of ends and the configuration of becomes similar to that of the conventional art such that the preemption ranks established in block control floor handling for any group communication session arbitrated by the application server involving the given communication group.

Otherwise if the operator of the application server determines to grant at least one group member an uninterruptable session privilege in determination block the operator configures the at least one group member with the uninterruptable session privilege in block . In an example the configuration in block may involve setting an uninterruptable session privilege parameter within a record for the at least one group member maintained at the application server to a given logic level e.g. 1 instead of 0 with the given logic level setting of the uninterruptable session privilege parameter e.g. 1 indicating that the at least one group member has the uninterruptable session privilege. In another example the configuration in block may involve setting a type field within the record of the at least one group member to indicate that the at least one group member has a number of certain privileges including but not limited to the uninterruptable session privilege. In another example the record could reflect the type of device used by the at least one group member whereby the uninterruptable session privilege is assumed based on the type of device such as if the type of the at least one group member as indicated in the record corresponds to a public safety device. In block the provisioning server notifies the at least one group member of the uninterruptable session privilege e.g. so that a multimedia client at the at least one group member will permit specially configured call messages to request an uninterruptable group communication session .

Accordingly referring to assume that the multimedia client A of AT receives a user request to initiate an uninterruptable session to a given communication group in block . For example if the requested session corresponds to a push to talk PTT or push to transfer PTX session the user request may correspond to a user of AT pressing a PTT or PTX button and separately indicating that the PTT PTX session is intended to be uninterrupted. In another example the requested session can correspond to a full duplex session even though full duplex sessions do not typically include talker arbitration because each call participant is permitted to talk. However if the full duplex session were specially established to be initiated in a lecture mode whereby the target audience is not expected to talk and or interrupt the speaker or lecturer the requested session can be implemented as an uninterruptable half duplex session despite being set up as a full duplex session. Next the multimedia client A of AT determines whether the user of AT has sufficient permission to request the uninterruptable session in determination block . For example after AT receives the notification that AT is permitted to initiate uninterruptable group communication sessions in block of the multimedia client A at AT can set an uninterruptable session privilege parameter for sessions involving the communication group to a given logic level e.g. 1 instead of 0 with the given logic level setting of the uninterruptable session privilege parameter e.g. 1 indicating that AT has the uninterruptable session privilege. In this example the determination in determination block corresponds to checking the logic level of the uninterruptable session privilege parameter to determine if AT is permitted to request the uninterruptable group communication session.

In determination block assume that the multimedia client A of AT determines AT to have sufficient permission to request initiation for the uninterruptable group communication session. Accordingly the multimedia client A of AT configures a call message to request initiation of an uninterruptable group communication session in block . For example the configuration in block may correspond to generating a standard call message and then modifying one or more fields of the standard call message to convey to the application server that AT is attempting to initiate an uninterruptable session. In an example the modified field of the call message may correspond to a Diffserv Code Point DSCP value in a header portion of the call message being set to a pre established value that the application server knows to interpret as a request for an uninterruptable session.

After the configuration in block AT transmits the configured call message to the RAN not shown that forwards the configured call message to a given regional dispatcher A of the application server . The application server acknowledges receipt of the call message by transmitting an ACK message back to AT . The regional dispatcher A evaluates the call message and determines whether AT belongs to the communication group to which AT is attempting to communicate in determination block . It may be assumed that AT belongs to the communication group i.e. determination block Y and the regional dispatcher A then locates each of target ATs . . . N e.g. the regional dispatcher A determines if the target ATs are registered with the application server and if so obtains their respective IP addresses in block selects a vocoder for the communication session in block and selects one of the plurality of MCCs B to handle the communication session in block . The regional dispatcher A then generates an announce message to announce the communication session to the target ATs . . . N and configures the announce message to indicate to the target ATs . . . N that the communication session is an uninterruptable communication session in block . In an example similar to the configured call message described above with reference to block the announce message can be configured to include a pre established DSCP value in a header portion that target ATs . . . N will interpret as being indicative of an uninterruptable group communication session. The regional dispatcher A then forwards the configured announce message to the RAN not shown for transmission to ATs . . . N.

While not shown explicitly in it will be appreciated that the multimedia client A of AT itself enforces whether the user of AT has sufficient privileges to request initiation of the uninterruptable group communication session e.g. in determination block . In an alternative embodiment the enforcement can be performed at the application server in which case a decision block could be added after block and before block to confirm that AT has sufficient privileges to request the uninterruptable group communication session and if not the application server would simply ignore the call message and would not announce the call.

Next assume that target ATs . . . N receive the configured announce message and that at least one of target ATs . . . N determines to accept the announced call i.e. determination block Y . For example each of target ATs . . . N that is not currently busy e.g. engaged in another call determines to accept the call in determination block . Alternatively in another example announcements for uninterruptable group communication sessions can force target ATs to drop a current session if present and to accept the uninterruptable group communication session. In this example the target ATs . . . N as well as the call originator AT can also be forced to reject any subsequent announce messages for other communication sessions during the duration of the uninterruptable group communication session.

Accordingly each target AT that determines to accept the announced call sends an announce ACK accept message to the regional dispatcher A and notifies a multimedia session user interface UI of the target ATs to notify users thereof to expect incoming uninterruptable group communication session media in block . Also because the communication session is uninterruptable in an example any attempts by users of ATs . . . N to request the floor are suppressed by the multimedia clients A at ATs . . . N in block such that floor request messages are not sent to the regional dispatcher A by the target ATs . . . N. In another example the floor requests can be suppressed differently such as by logic contained at the RAN and or the application server .

Upon receiving the announce ACK accept message from a first of ATs . . . N first responder the regional dispatcher A sends a floor grant message to AT to prompt a user of AT to begin buffering media for eventual transmission to the application server for forwarding to the target ATs . . . N. AT receives the floor grant message from the regional dispatcher A and acknowledges receipt of the floor grant message with an ACK message . The multimedia client A then instructs AT to play a tone to inform a user of AT to begin inputting media e.g. voice data and the multimedia client A buffers the media input by the user of AT in block . Upon receiving the floor grant ACK from AT the regional dispatcher A instructs the MCC B selected in block to begin hosting the communication session as an uninterruptable session in block . Accordingly the MCC B will ignore the relative preemption ranks of the ATs participating in the communication session and will maintain AT as the floor holder throughout the communication session in block . In other words if the MCC B receives any floor requests from ATs . . . N during the uninterruptable group communication session the MCC B will deny the floor requests and the MCC B will not revoke the floor from the current floor holder irrespective of whether maintaining the floor with the current floor holder violates one or more rules e.g. such as how long a floor holder is typically permitted to hold onto the floor etc. . The MCC B then sends media control unit MCU information to call originator and current floor holder AT as well as target ATs . . . N in block . The MCU is a software process or instance that handles a single instance for a call or communication session and the MCU information corresponds to a contact message and includes the IP address and port number regarding where floor holders are to forward media for re transmission to the rest of the group during the session e.g. as in block below or signaling messages such as ACKs .

AT receives the MCU information from the MCC B and acknowledges receipt of the MCU information with an ACK message . Also upon receiving the MCU information from the MCC B the multimedia client A begins transmitting the buffered media to the MCC B in block which in turn buffers the media forwarded from AT in block . Next the MCC B waits to receive at least one ACK from target ATs . . . N to the MCU information transmitted in block . In an example the MCC B can wait for a first MCU information ACK from any of target ATs . . . N and can then begin forwarding the buffered media. In an alternative example the MCC B can wait for MCU information ACKs from a given percentage of target ATs . . . N e.g. of each target to which the announce message was sent or of each target that accepted the call via the ACK message before forwarding any of the buffered media. In another alternative example the MCC B can wait for MCU information ACKs from each of target ATs . . . N e.g. of each target to which the announce message was sent or of each target that accepted the call via the ACK message such that the given percentage equals 100 before forwarding any of the buffered media e.g. if it is important for each target AT to receive the full media flow . In any case one or more ACKs from target ATs . . . N are received at the MCC B. When the number of MCU information ACKs from the target ATs . . . N satisfies a given threshold e.g. a first MCU information ACK is received a MCU information ACK is received from each target AT to have accepted the call via the ACK message a given percentage of target ATs . . . N that accepted the call via the ACK message etc. the MCC B forwards the buffered media to target ATs . . . N in block . Also while the MCU ACKs are illustrated as arriving at the MCC B if a sufficient number of MCU ACKs from target ATs . . . N arrive at the MCC B before media begins arriving from AT it will be appreciated that the buffering in block can be skipped and the MCC B can begin forwarding the media to ATs . . . N as soon as it is received.

While not shown in if any of target ATs . . . N send floor request messages despite the suppression of block the MCC B will ignore the floor request messages because the MCC B is aware that the communication session is intended to be uninterruptable from block .

Accordingly as will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art a given call originator with sufficient privileges can establish a group communication session that is uninterruptable irrespective of its group preemption rank thereby permitting the given call originator to forward media to a communication group without a risk of losing the floor to another group member. Also while examples above are generally directed to uninterruptable group communication sessions including audio media e.g. voice other embodiments can be directed to sessions that include audio and video or video only.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of non transitory computer readable storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on a non transitory computer readable medium. Non transitory computer readable media include both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A non transitory computer readable storage medium may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such non transitory computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of non transitory computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

