---

title: Non-lethal restraint device with diverse deployability applications
abstract: An immobilization device and method of restraining vehicles, persons and animals uses tendrils attached to various devices to engage the target. The immobilization device, system and method includes a housing containing launchable tendrils that are launched from the housing by a propellant. The tendrils may be attached to straps or other elements carried by the immobilization device. The tendrils will engage the target and restrain it if it is a vehicle such as a car, truck, boat, submarine, or like vehicle. In stopping a person or animal the tendrils will deliver a marking package, a shocking package or a snare package to mark, shock or snare the target. Straps may be pulled off the housing leaving the housing near the point of deployment.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08757039&OS=08757039&RS=08757039
owner: Engineering Science Analysis Corporation
number: 08757039
owner_city: Tempe
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101008
---
This application is a divisional application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 185 947 filed Aug. 5 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 882 775 which claims priority in previously filed provisional application 60 963 927 filed Aug. 7 2007 herein incorporated in its entirety.

Some elements of this invention were developed under Department of Homeland Security SBIR Contract NBCH060024.

This invention is directed to a system apparatus and method for the non lethal restraint of a vehicle a person or an animal through the use of an entanglement device that will entangle such vehicle person or animal. The non lethal entanglement device incorporates a plurality of tendrils filaments tentacles cables ropes or straps or a combination there of that are propelled from a housing by compressed gas an explosive charge a rocket based projectile or by pressure generated by a gas generator of the type commonly used in air bag deployment apparatus. Filaments that are launched from the device may be attached to projectiles that may carry adhesive substances conductive substances or barbed capture elements that will adhere stick or hook onto to a target surface. The filaments are designed to assist in entangling a target vehicle a target person or a target animal and restrain the targeted element.

This invention is also directed to a system apparatus and method for the non lethal deterrent of a target through the use of a device that will deliver chemical agents or electric shock mechanisms for repelling persons or animals. The non lethal device incorporates a plurality of projectiles that are propelled from a housing by compressed gas an explosive charge or by pressure generated by a gas generator of the type commonly used in air bag deployment apparatus. Projectiles may be projectiles in one embodiment frangible balls carrying chemical agents adhesive or conductive substances or barbed capture elements or a combination thereof that will adhere or stick to a target surface. Filaments may be included to deliver electric shock mechanisms to the target.

The inventors also contemplate using the broad technology disclosed herein in an aquatic environment where the entanglement technology can be used to restrain boats submarines and other water borne vessels. The entanglement technology will render the propulsion mechanisms such as but not limited to propellers jet pumps and screw drives as well as steering motors and steering equipment such as rudders and the like of boats submarines hovercraft and other water borne vessels hydrodynamically inefficient. Such entanglement caused situations will impede the vessel s progress and in some cases stop the vessel by fouling propellers jet pumps and other underwater or water line control surfaces of a vessel.

A further application is to use the non lethal restraint device as an ancillary device floated on or under the water in a single or in an array configuration in which the systems intelligently communicate net centric to locate a target vessel and activate the closest device to ensnare and disable the target vessel.

The inventor also contemplates that the entanglement device system and method can be used as a perimeter defense system to deter restrain or identify targets by marking with a trackable substance or device for instance a paint or fluorescent substance or an electronic tracking device.

In another embodiment the inventor contemplates that the entanglement device system and method can be launched from a launch platform such as a missile tube torpedo launcher sono buoy launcher pneumatic launcher grenade launcher mortar tube shotgun or the like or by other means such as but not limited to a projectile mortar flying disc remote controlled aircraft shotgun shell launched grenade or missile.

A further embodiment is an entanglement device system and method that is hand launched thrown or tossed like a projectile hand grenade flying disc bola device glider or the like. Thus the entanglement device system and method can be hand placed tossed buried submerged at a variable depth. It can be configured as a landmine sea borne mine sono buoy claymore mine or bouncing betty mine. Among other configurations.

A further application is to use the non lethal restraint device as an ancillary device mounted on a riot shield post wall or mounted on crowd control vehicles so that projectiles such as frangible balls or other such projectiles containing chemical irritants marking paint or adhesives can be launched either in volleys in a successive escalation of force or in one massive launch event where all the projectiles are launched at once at targeted aggressors.

The inventors also contemplate attaching an electric shock delivery option such as an electric shock weapon using electro muscular disruption or shaped pulse systems launched or delivered from a protective shield or peripheral defense device. Another option is incorporate an electrically conductive adhesive to enhance the shock delivery mechanism.

Still a further option is to attach entangling fibers to the projectiles launched from the shield post vehicle or other mounting mechanism.

To reduce the complexity and length of the Detailed Specification and to fully establish the state of the art in certain areas of technology Applicants herein expressly incorporate by reference material identified in the following publications.

Greg Lucas Bay Area s New Efforts in the War on Terror Coast Guard Weapon High tech net to keep boats from off limits areas San Francisco Chronicle Article Aug. 10 2005. Available on the Internet. .

Steven H. Scott Sticky Foam as a Less Than Lethal Technology Sandia National Laboratory US DOE Contract No DE AC04 96AL8500 CIRCA 1994.

T. D. Goolby and K. J. Padilla Sticky Foam Restraining Effectiveness Human Subject Tests for the Less Than Lethal Foam Project Sandia Report Jul. 8 1994 UNCI Available on the Internet .

The applicants believe that the material incorporated above is non essential in accordance with 37 CFR 1.57 because it is referred to for purposes of indicating the background of the invention or illustrating the state of the art. However if the Examiner believes that any of the above incorporated material constitutes essential material within the meaning of 37 CFR 1.57 c 1 3 applicants will amend the specification to expressly recite the essential material that is incorporated by reference as allowed by the applicable rules.

The present invention provides among other things an apparatus and a method for restraining marking deterring or rendering inefficient targeted land or water borne vehicles. It may also be used to restrain humans or animals depending on the designed application and embodiment taught by the general operating principles of the invention. It may also be useful in to mark an intruder with paint or other material for subsequent identification or to launch a deterrent such as a projectile or ball containing a chemical irritant or an adhesive.

In one embodiment of the invention the activation hardware and the ensnaring elements are carried on or in a truncated cylindrical housing. This housing presents a small light self contained propulsion unit for the entanglement device.

The method of entangling or otherwise engaging a target may be accomplished by providing an entangling apparatus having a housing a barrel in some embodiments a pressure generator and a projectile which may be a frangible ball in some embodiments and attached tendril. The entangling apparatus is then positioned in an expected path of a target and armed for use. When a target vehicle is being driven over the entangling apparatus pressure generation is initiated. The pressurization will cause the launching of the projectile from the barrel of the entangling apparatus. The launched projectile will contact the target vehicle with the frangible ball projectile and or the tendril of the projectile causing entanglement of the target vehicle with the tendril of the projectile through relative motion of the target vehicle and the tendril.

It is an object of the invention to provide non lethal restraint deterrent marking tracking system that will restrain a moving vehicle a person or an animal.

It is also an object of the invention to provide a non lethal restraint device that can be deployed from a land based water borne or air borne platform.

It is also an object of the invention to provide a non lethal restraint device that can be deployed by being manually dropped placed buried or otherwise positioned.

It is a further object of the invention to provide a device having the capability of launching a tracking device.

It is also an object to provide a water borne immobilization device that can be used to restrain or disable a water borne vessel.

It is also an object to provide a water borne immobilization device that can be used to foul the propulsion system of a water borne vessel and render it hydrodynamically inefficient.

It is also an object of the invention to provide automatic arming and triggering systems for arming and discharging the device so that the device can perform with minimal user intervention.

It is also an object of the invention to provide a non lethal immobilization device that is small compact reloadable and reusable.

It is also an object to have a non lethal immobilization device that can be positioned by being dropped from an aircraft or deploying the device from a moving vehicle without damage to the device.

It is also an object of the invention to have a device that can be remotely armed from a safe distance from the expected path of a target.

It is another object of the invention to configure the entanglement device for use as a riot control tool by mounting the entanglement device or other crowd control products such as pepper balls or other projectiles containing chemical agents adhesives or the like on a shield post or vehicle used in interacting with multiple aggressors.

It is another object of the invention to configure the entanglement device to launch projectiles containing or coated with noxious chemical agents capsaicin based products adhesives or the like.

A further object of the invention is to configure the device for use against multiple targets using a staged launch scenario for increasing the severity of the device s effect.

A further object of the invention is to provide a non lethal device that is used for perimeter security by discharging projectiles or frangible balls containing paint fluorescent paint or marking powder to render an intruder visible to law enforcement personnel.

It is another object of this invention to provide a non lethal land mine capable of launching an entanglement device a frangible ball a projectile or any combination of launchable elements.

Another object of the invention is to provide a method of entangling a target with a tendril using relative motion of the target and the tendril to effect entanglement.

It is another object of the invention to provide a non lethal vehicle restraint undercarriage immobilization device that can accommodate a range of targeted vehicle masses over a wide range of velocities.

It is another object of the invention to provide a non lethal vehicle restraint device that is operative and effective for use on vehicles of various heights and drive train types.

The above and other objects may be achieved by providing non lethal restraint system including a housing having an exterior surface and having a pressure manifold inboard of the exterior surface of the housing. The housing includes at least one barrel extending from the exterior of the housing to the pressure manifold and a pressure generator or stored source of pressure or compressed gas such as but not limited to a carbon dioxide cartridge carried in the pressure manifold. A projectile carried in the barrel has a spool a tendril wound on the spool and a frangible ball or other projectile connected to the tendril. It is expected that a large number of barrels will be provided in each housing.

Another way of achieving the above and other objects of the invention is through an apparatus for non lethal ensnarement of a target having a housing with an exterior surface and a pressure manifold inboard of the exterior surface of the housing. A first pressure generator or stored source of pressure for accomplishing a first event is carried in the housing. There is a primary tubular strap rope or cable in communication with the first pressure generator and a first activation device in communication with the first pressure generator. In one embodiment of the invention an alternative propulsion source may be used to deploy the ensnarement package for instance a rocket incorporating propulsion protocol may be more effective in deploying a heavier strap package.

The immobilization apparatus will include a pressure generator carried in the housing and a set of barrels containing projectiles in communication through a manifold to the pressure generator. The event apparatus includes a set of leader tendrils connected at the trailing ends of the leader line. A frangible ball or projectile is attached to the leading end of the leader line. An activation device in communication with a pressure generator is used to initiate the pressure generator.

The above and other objects may be achieved by using methods of entangling a target as set forth in this disclosure. The method may be accomplished by providing an entangling apparatus having a housing a barrel a pressure generator and a projectile having a frangible ball or projectile and attached tendril. The entangling apparatus is then positioned launched or otherwise deployed in an expected path of a target. The apparatus can then be armed for firing. When a target is in the proximity of the entangling apparatus pressure generation is initiated. That is the device is fired. The pressurization will cause the launching of the projectile from the barrel of the entangling apparatus. The launched projectile will contact the target with the projectile the frangible ball or the tendril of the projectile causing entanglement of the target with the tendril of the projectile through relative motion of the target and the tendril.

Aspects and applications of the invention presented here are described below in the drawings and detailed description of the invention. Unless specifically noted it is intended that the words and phrases in the specification and the claims be given their plain ordinary and accustomed meaning to those of ordinary skill in the applicable arts. The inventors are fully aware that they can be their own lexicographers if desired. The inventors expressly elect as their own lexicographers to use only the plain and ordinary meaning of terms in the specification and claims unless they clearly state otherwise and then further expressly set forth the special definition of that term and explain how it differs from the plain and ordinary meaning. Absent such clear statements of intent to apply a special definition it is the inventors intent and desire that the simple plain and ordinary meaning to the terms be applied to the interpretation of the specification and claims.

The inventors are also aware of the normal precepts of English grammar. Thus if a noun term or phrase is intended to be further characterized specified or narrowed in some way then such noun term or phrase will expressly include additional adjectives descriptive terms or other modifiers in accordance with the normal precepts of English grammar. Absent the use of such adjectives descriptive terms or modifiers it is the intent that such nouns terms or phrases be given their plain and ordinary English meaning to those skilled in the applicable arts as set forth above.

Further the inventors are fully informed of the standards and application of the special provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6. Thus the use of the words function means or step in the Detailed Description or Description of the Drawings or claims is not intended to somehow indicate a desire to invoke the special provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6 to define the invention. To the contrary if the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6 are sought to be invoked to define the inventions the claims will specifically and expressly state the exact phrases means for or step for and will also recite the word function i.e. will state means for performing the function of insert function without also reciting in such phrases any structure material or act in support of the function. Thus even when the claims recite a means for performing the function of . . . or step for performing the function of . . . if the claims also recite any structure material or acts in support of that means or step or that perform the recited function then it is the clear intention of the inventors not to invoke the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6. Moreover even if the provisions of 35 U.S.C. 112 6 are invoked to define the claimed inventions it is intended that the inventions not be limited only to the specific structure material or acts that are described in the preferred embodiments but in addition include any and all structures materials or acts that perform the claimed function as described in alternative embodiments or forms of the invention or that are well known present or later developed equivalent structures material or acts for performing the claimed function.

In one application of the invention the non lethal restraint or undercarriage immobilization device will be positioned for use by placing the undercarriage immobilization device either by hand in the expected pathway of a vehicle to be stopped or by dropping the undercarriage immobilization device from a moving vehicle such as an automobile truck or helicopter. With the undercarriage immobilization device placed on the ground it can be safely armed. Arming of the device can be performed by closing a switch on the housing or from a remote location. Once armed the undercarriage immobilization device is ready for use. As the target vehicle approaches the undercarriage immobilization device inflatable primary straps ropes or cables will be deployed in one embodiment by inflating the hollow straps or bladders so that these primary straps ropes or cables are unfurled across the road surface. As the target vehicle drives onto or over the primary straps the tires of the target vehicle will engage the primary straps which will connect to the tires either through an adhesive carried on the surface of the primary straps or through hooks or spikes strategically placed on and carried by the straps. At this point the primary straps are attached to the vehicle tire or other component of the moving vehicle. The primary straps will wind around the suspension and other structures on the underside of the target vehicle and pull tight or wedge between components creating a fixity for the strap. Meanwhile and almost simultaneously therewith while the target vehicle is still passing over the undercarriage immobilization device an infrared sensor or other sensor capable of sensing the vehicle on the undercarriage immobilization device will sense the presence of the target vehicle and initiate launching of an array of projectiles and leader tendrils connected to the secondary straps. These leader tendrils will ensnare rotating components of the target vehicle and as they do the leader tendrils will draw the secondary straps carried on the base of the undercarriage immobilization device into engagement with and around rotating components of the target vehicle. These secondary straps will pull the strap package that is the inflatable primary straps and the secondary straps to the extent other secondary straps have not already separated from the reusable base of the device off of the reusable base of the undercarriage immobilization device. The high elongation secondary straps and the primary straps to the extent they have wrapped around moving components on the underside of the target vehicle will absorb kinetic energy from the moving target vehicle. The target vehicle will slow at a controllable rate due to the entanglement of the straps with the rotating or moving parts of the vehicle and eventually cause the vehicle to stop.

Turning first to the undercarriage immobilization device is shown generally as item . The device includes a housing with numerous barrels such as a strap package and a proximity detector and actuation device package . The housing is sometimes referred to as the propulsion device in the description of several embodiments presented herein.

A set of ports or pressure delivery conduits such as extend from the primary gas generator chamber to input ends of at least one strap or a plurality of inflatable primary straps . Upon actuation and the discharge of gas from the primary gas generator the event one ground straps will be deployed to the position shown in .

In a secondary gas generator chamber is shown. This chamber has ports such as the ports that connect the chamber to a manifold . The manifold provides communication to a plurality of percussion chambers each associated with a projectile and spool assembly on which leader tendrils are wound. The leader tendrils are attached at one end to the projectile while the tail end of the leader tendrils are attached to a second event strap or secondary flat strap . The leader tendrils will be strong filaments of line capable of significant tensile strength. The projectiles are carried on a support having a surface on an extended portion of the support the extended portion of the support on which the projectile is carried being a sliding fit in a projectile guide of a launch chamber . A band will hold the secondary straps on the propulsion housing after the primary straps are deployed in event one and before the secondary straps are deployed with the leader tendrils attached to them in event two.

The projectiles shown in may be directly connected to the manifold to be launched by gas pressure generated by the secondary gas generator . In another embodiment the pressure in the manifold from the secondary gas generator will be used to actuate a percussion or gas generating device carried in the projectile itself or the chamber hosting the projectile. The percussion device could be an explosive charge such as an explosive cartridge or a compressed gas device either of which when actuated is capable of launching individual projectiles such as plastic devices rubber or rubber like devices frangible balls or metallic or non metallic devices and the attached leader tendrils .

The flat secondary straps ropes or cables which are attached to one or more of the leader tendrils are expected to be too heavy in most configurations to be pulled by the projectile itself. Therefore the leader tendrils will be long enough on the order of greater than a foot long and not much longer that about fifteen feet long and strong enough to entangle with the rotating components of a target vehicle. Once entangled the leader tendrils will drag the flat secondary straps into entanglement with the rotating elements of the target. In another embodiment the leader tendrils will simply attach themselves to the vehicle and allow the attached secondary straps to get wound up in the running gear of the vehicle.

As shown in the leader tendril having a projectile attached at one end thereof is also attached at a second end to the secondary strap . In one embodiment there will be several leader tendrils such as attached to a single secondary strap such as .

The deployment of the primary and secondary straps is accomplished in two phases or events using two separate deployment charges.

The first event is the deployment of the inflatable primary straps after the device is positioned for use. For the deployment of the primary straps in event one a primary gas generator can be used. The gas generator will be activated by an operator from a remote location through use of a actuation device which is part of the proximity detector and actuation device package . By rapidly filling the tubular primary straps with gas generated in the primary gas generator the straps will unroll from their stored position on the housing shown in to the deployed position as shown in and the other figures.

Event two in the use of the non lethal restraint device is the deployment of the secondary straps and leader tendrils that will ensnare the undercarriage of a target vehicle. This second event can be initiated as the primary straps are picked up by the vehicle or alternatively when the primary straps are not picked up by the vehicle tires but when the secondary straps are deployed based on a signal from a proximity detector or from a signal sent by an operator using a remote actuator.

As stated above the activation device for activating the gas generator in event two can be an automatic device sensing the presence of the target vehicle such as but not limited to a laser based sonar based or other proximity detector or by a human equipped with a remote activator to send a signal to the housing to activate the gas generator or by interaction between the primary straps and the device. Any one of these methods can be used to activate the gas generator to activate and launch the projectiles and the tendrils from the housing .

The primary straps and the secondary straps will entangle themselves on a target vehicle as the target vehicle moves over the undercarriage immobilization device . First the primary straps will attach to the tires as the tires drive over the strips and get attached by the use of barbs or the spikes such as or adhesive material located on the surface of the inflatable primary straps. Next the secondary straps attached to the leader tendrils are launched within less than seconds of the primary straps being picked up by the tires of the vehicle the secondary straps will start to entangle on the underside of the vehicle. Where the projectiles such as are frangible balls filled with adhesive the adhesive of the frangible balls assisted by barbs if the frangible balls also included barbs carried inside or on the surface of the projectile may stick to the underside of the vehicle and the straps attached to the leader tendrils will when the leader tendrils are attached to the vehicle entangle themselves the secondary straps and the primary straps with the vehicle. The entangled primary straps and the entangled secondary straps or each either or any of them will be stripped off the housing of the immobilization device and become entangled with the target vehicle running gear. The primary straps and secondary straps are sewn or otherwise attached to a circular band so that the strap package will be removed as a set or package of straps from the housing and the strap package will remain with the entangled target vehicle. In this way the strap package will continue to wrap itself around moving parts of the target vehicle while the housing will be left behind to be collected and reloaded for subsequent use.

The inventor has found that a gas generator of the type used in automotive airbag deployment systems that has been integrated into the device provides a good source of pressurized gas for deploying the primary and secondary straps.

Turning first to a non lethal vehicle restraining device generally includes a housing . A set of straps two of six such straps identified as are connected by manifolds one of the six manifolds in this embodiment shown as to the housing . As will be described further on these manifolds will be pressurized by pressurized gas generated by a gas generator upon activation of the device. The straps will include spikes as shown in and .

In the embodiment shown in et al. there are projectile launch tubes such as two of many shown as launch tubes . These launch tubes will contain projectiles and tendrils of the type described above and in particular of the type shown in and . These projectiles will be launched in the event two activity of the actuation of the device . In event one the straps will be inflated and positioned in a pattern surrounding the housing similar to the strap deployment as shown in .

Another embodiment of a non lethal land vehicle restraint device is shown in . Both of the embodiments shown are similar to the restraint device described above with some design nuances that make both these embodiments suitable for temporary or permanent check point stations border crossing access points guard stations and the like.

In the embodiment shown in and a housing body very similar to that shown in but without the projectile and tendril launch tubes has a pressure delivery manifold that may include a plurality of passages connected to a pressure generator chamber . In the embodiment shown in and there will be eight passages as shown but more or fewer passages can be used as long as there is adequate pressure to launch the strap package for instance the strap package shown generally as and in

A signal receiver is provided to receive a transmitted signal from a control point for the device. For instance in a check point situation personnel manning the checkpoint will be able to send a signal usually a radio signal. Other signal transmission options are contemplated by the inventor including but not limited to a hard wired circuit an infrared signal or a microwave signal. Upon activation by an operator the pressure generating chamber will be activated and pressure sufficient to launch the strap packages and . In one embodiment the straps will include an inflatable bladder inside a tubular shaped strap which when inflated will send the straps outward from the housing . In one embodiment of the invention a proximity sensor can be used to activate the device after an operator has activated the devices. When the strap packages are deployed a grid of straps including upwardly extending spikes such as will spread across a control zone. This may be for example a portion of a roadway. Any vehicle that attempts to drive over the deployed strap package will become entangled in the straps of the strap package. Entanglement of the vehicle will cause the vehicle to be stopped by the straps entangling the tires of the vehicle. In this embodiment there were no projectile and tendril launch tubes or components used however the spikes of the strap package in contact with the tires of a vehicle will engage the strap package with the tires of the vehicle.

The embodiment shown in is similar to with regard to the strap packages and . In this embodiment the body of the housing will have strap package inflation ports necessary to inflate and deploy the number of straps in the packages. In this case there will be four strap inflation ports on each side of the housing similar to the embodiment. This embodiment includes the ability to launch projectiles and tethers similar to the device of . The launch of the projectiles will be as for the launch of the projectiles as set forth in .

Another embodiment of a vehicle restraint device one that is also non lethal is the aquatic mine device that can be pre placed either partially submerged covert or visible deterrent above the surface of the water. The embodiment of the aquatic restraint device can slow stop and disables waterborne vessels by fouling the propulsion system propeller or jet pump by either stopping the system or rendering it hydrodynamically inefficient. The aquatic restraint device launches projectiles and tendrils at the precipice of ascension from a body of water. This occurs either when the device is floating partially above the surface of the water or when the delivery system submerged from just below the surface of the water.

In one embodiment the aquatic mines are set up to communicate to the other mines forming a neural net that senses target proximity to facilitate target location ensnarement and to communicate the data to central command.

The basic principle of the land vehicle restraint device is incorporated into the aquatic vessel restraint devices. One embodiment is shown in and a second embodiment is shown in .

Turning first to figures pertaining to a drag chute embodiment shown in . The device generally includes a tendril deployment head a cylindrical body partially broken away to show the drag chute inside the cylindrical body and a ballast weight . A drag chute connected to the head or in one embodiment body is housed in the cylindrical body until the drag chute is deployed.

In operation the aquatic restraint device can be loaded with ballast to set the buoyancy of the mine. As the ballast weight is adjusted the depth that the aquatic restraint device floats partially above the surface of the water or below the surface of the water can be set or regulated.

In a situation where a mine is floating just below the water surface it may be desirable to raise the device above the surface of the water just before the tentacles are deployed. This can be done by having the device pop out of the water by releasing the ballast from the housing while a long strap still attaches the ballast to the structure of the device. The cylindrical body will contain some air so when the ballast is released the cylindrical body buoyed by the contained air will be forced up by buoyancy. By sensing or timing when the head of the device is above the surface of the water the head will launch the tendrils. In one embodiment this launching will occur at the precipice of the cylindrical body s assent.

Alternatively a net not shown may be carried in the cylindrical body . The net can be pulled through the center port of the head similar to the way the entangler is pulled through the center port of the head . In another embodiment the inventors contemplate using an airbag type device to foul or render a large prop hydrodynamically inefficient. This may be effective in stopping very large boats or ships.

Turning to it is shown that the tendrils will be attached to the projectiles at one end of the tendril and will be attached to the entangler at the other end of the tendril. The tendrils will extend from the projectiles through the center port of the head going in over the top of the housing of the head through the center port and then to the entangler . Thus when the tendrils are pulled from the head they will pull the entangler through the center port leaving the entangler head and the attached cylindrical body portion behind.

In operation the vessel immobilization device or aquatic restraint device will sense the presence of a vessel and launch a collection of tendrils that will surround the aquatic restraint device . As the vessel is driven over the tendrils the tendrils will be entangled in the propeller of the vessel or ingested into a jet pump drive of the vessel. The entangled tendrils will pull the entangler a group of straps tendrils ropes or cables collected in a bundle making up the entangler . The straps may be similar to the secondary straps discussed above. The straps of the entangler will be drawn into the propeller or into the jet pump of the vessel and or render the jet pump or propeller hydrodynamically inefficient and slow and eventually disable the jet pump or propeller thus slowing and stopping the vessel . By pulling the entangler or a net as another option or embodiment through the center port of the modified head of the vessel restraining device the modified head can be recovered for reloading and reuse as it will not be dragged by the vessel attached to the entangling straps.

A plurality of embodiments based on the basic vehicle restraint device shown in are presented in and and . These devices are useful as perimeter defense devices that can be used to help protect the perimeter of a geographic zone. These perimeter defensive devices may be activated using an infrared detection device a proximity sensor a trip wire triggering device or a manual for remote trigger.

One embodiment of a perimeter defense device is similar in structure to the well known Claymore mine in that it can be located on the ground to face outwardly from the zone to be protected. This device is shown in .

The embodiment is shown with an optional sensing device . The sensing device may be a proximity detector such as but not limited to a motion sensor an infrared sensor for instance or may be a receiver to receive a radio signal from a remote triggering location.

Another embodiment useful as a perimeter defense device is shown in and is a land mine device generally . This device is similar to the device but is modified to be activated by a contact or pressure switch . Alternatively the device can be triggered by a proximity switch a trip wire an infrared detector or by radio signal from an observer or another land mine. In this embodiment only projectiles and tendrils are carried in the housing . They will be launched by the same projecting launch systems used in however the embodiment of and will not include the primary or secondary strap packages shown in et seq.

Another embodiment of a non lethal restraint device is a launched projectile that will spread a net over a person crowd or animal. The launched projectile embodiment is also similar to the vehicle restraint system that is disclosed above in that a filament and net structure is launched to ensnare targeted individuals. The ensnarement restraint device is a device that is launched from a launcher such as but not limited to a shoulder launched multi purpose assault weapon a mortar launcher or as an M203 launched round.

Another embodiment of the invention is shown in . This is a top view of a flying disc or saucer device . In this embodiment the flying disc device is intended to be launched by a launcher such as but not limited to a launcher of the type used to launch clay pigeons or by being flung and throw by a person. The flying disc will include a housing that includes launch tubes for storing and eventual launching of projectiles such as mass elements plastic or rubber elements or frangible balls. These projectiles such as projectiles will be attached to tendrils such as as have been described earlier in this specification. The primary operation mode of this embodiment is as a bolo style entangling device.

However in an alternative embodiment a proximity sensor may be carried in cavity . Alternatively an accelerometer can be carried in the cavity or in another location of the flying disc such as but not limited to a control circuit board carried in the device similar to the circuit board used in the device. In operation this flying disc will be thrown or launched toward a target such as an individual an animal or a vehicle. When the flying disc gets close to the target the projectiles and tendrils will be launched. In the embodiment where an accelerometer is used the flying disc can actually contact the target and the accelerometer will initiate the firing of the projectiles and tendrils having the effect of tangling the target in this situation the device does not have the attributes of a bolo device.

In the bolo like embodiment this device will perform as a bolo device a device with a mass at both ends of a line that is throw at a target and wraps around the target on contact. In this case the tendrils with the weights in the form of the projectiles at the ends of the tendrils will contact the target and wrap around the target like a bolo device. The masses at the ends of the tendrils will keep wrapping the tendrils by centripetal force on the tendril until the length of the tendril is wrapped around the target. The projectiles may stick to if they are frangible balls filled with an adhesive to entangle deter or mark the target with a tracking substance for instance the target. This will cause the target to become entangled with the tendrils thus affecting the movement capability of the target or marked with identification fluid. It may or may not use a proximity detector to release the projectiles and tendrils.

Another embodiment utilizing the bolo device principle is to have a remote controlled aircraft as a delivery platform for the bolo device. In this embodiment the bolo device will be launched from the platform after it is spun up to extend the projectiles and tendrils. It will then be in motion as a bolo like device ready to entangle the target when contact is made between the bolo device and the target.

In one further embodiment of the invention an entanglement device is provided for use as a riot control tool. An entanglement device or other crowd control devices such as capsaicin filled balls or projectiles containing or coated with other noxious chemical agents or adhesives is mounted on a shield post or vehicle used in interacting with aggressors. A staged launch scenario is contemplated for increasing the severity of the device effects i.e. escalation of force. 

The projectiles may be filled with a chemical irritant adhesive marker or tracking device. Projectiles may rupture upon contacting the subject target or may break as the target or subject struggles to escape break thus releasing the contents of the projectile.

While the invention is described herein in terms of preferred embodiments and generally associated methods the inventor contemplates that alterations and permutations of the preferred embodiments and methods will become apparent to those skilled in the art upon a reading of the specification and a study of the drawings.

Accordingly neither the above description of preferred exemplary embodiments nor the abstract defines or constrains the invention. Rather the issued claims variously define the invention. Each variation of the invention is limited only by the recited limitations of its respective claim and equivalents thereof without limitation by other terms not present in the claim.

