---

title: Mechanism for customized aggregation of system-specific information for post-installation suggestions
abstract: A mechanism for customized aggregation of system-specific information for Post-Installation Suggestions is disclosed. A method of embodiments includes determining identifying information of a computer system of an end user computing device communicably coupled to an update service computing device, aggregating a plurality of updates, suggestions, and information specific to the computer system of the end user computing device into a customized result list, the plurality of updates, suggestions, and information received from a repository of historical system results and a plurality of third-party vendors and associated with various components of the computer system including the hardware of the computer system and the software of the computer system, and providing the customized result list to the end user computing device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08521846&OS=08521846&RS=08521846
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 08521846
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100809
---
The embodiments of the invention relate generally to computer system updates and more specifically relate to customized aggregation of system specific information for Post Installation Suggestions.

Typically when an end user installs an operating system on their computer there are a variety of updates that still need to be installed on the system. Current update utilities exist that direct the end user to updates for the software itself or updates for particular drivers on the computer. However these utilities are typically tailored to only one aspect of the computer system. For instance providing software updates for a particular piece of software or driver updates for a particular piece of hardware.

Furthermore end users of computer systems may wish to be presented with more than just updates. For example an end user may wish to see information related to known errata associated with their present system recall information associated with their present system knowledge base articles related to their particular system and suggested products or application that are popular with other users of the same system. The presently provided update utilities do not provide a comprehensive list of suggestions tailored to the specific system of the computer itself as well as list of the other non update related material described above.

Embodiments of the invention provide a mechanism for customized aggregation of system specific information for Post Installation Suggestions. A method of embodiments of the invention includes determining identifying information of a computer system of an end user computing device communicably coupled to an update service computing device aggregating a plurality of updates suggestions and information specific to the computer system of the end user computing device into a customized result list the plurality of updates suggestions and information received from a repository of historical system results and a plurality of third party vendors and associated with various components of the computer system including the hardware of the computer system and the software of the computer system and providing the customized result list to the end user computing device.

In the following description numerous details are set forth. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form rather than in detail in order to avoid obscuring the present invention.

Some portions of the detailed descriptions which follow are presented in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computer memory. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing arts to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. An algorithm is here and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps leading to a desired result. The steps are those requiring physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these quantities take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated. It has proven convenient at times principally for reasons of common usage to refer to these signals as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these and similar terms are to be associated with the appropriate physical quantities and are merely convenient labels applied to these quantities. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussion it is appreciated that throughout the description discussions utilizing terms such as sending receiving attaching forwarding caching determining aggregating providing or the like refer to the action and processes of a computer system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data represented as physical electronic quantities within the computer system s registers and memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computer system memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

The present invention also relates to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes or it may comprise a general purpose computer selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a machine readable storage medium such as but not limited to any type of disk including floppy disks optical disks CD ROMs and magnetic optical disks read only memories ROMs random access memories RAMs EPROMs EEPROMs flash memory magnetic or optical cards or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions each coupled to a computer system bus.

The algorithms and displays presented herein are not inherently related to any particular computer or other apparatus. Various general purpose systems may be used with programs in accordance with the teachings herein or it may prove convenient to construct more specialized apparatus to perform the required method steps. The required structure for a variety of these systems will appear as set forth in the description below. In addition the present invention is not described with reference to any particular programming language. It will be appreciated that a variety of programming languages may be used to implement the teachings of the invention as described herein.

The present invention may be provided as a computer program product or software that may include a machine readable medium having stored thereon instructions which may be used to program a computer system or other electronic devices to perform a process according to the present invention. A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form readable by a machine e.g. a computer . For example a machine readable e.g. computer readable medium includes a machine e.g. a computer readable storage medium e.g. read only memory ROM random access memory RAM magnetic disk storage media flash memory optical storage media flash memory devices etc. a machine e.g. computer readable transmission medium non propagating electrical optical or acoustical signals etc.

Embodiments of the invention provide a mechanism for customized aggregation of system specific information for Post Installation Suggestions. Embodiments of the invention provide a list of hardware updates software updates driver updates errata and customized suggestions for the specific computer system including installed hardware and software of that system. An update utility of the OS gathers the computer system specific information such as model number OS version hardware types and versions installed software and versions and so on and then intelligently aggregates the customized updates and other information for that specific computer system in one location without prompting from an end user of that computer system.

In one embodiment computing machine includes hardware an operating system OS and applications . Hardware may include but is not limited to components such as processor memory and input output I O devices . OS includes a kernel as well as an update module that assists in the performance of embodiments of the invention. Applications may include but are not limited to a web browser and a word processor for example.

In one embodiment upon installation of the OS an update module of OS operates to identify the computer system to update service . In some cases this means providing a computer system make and model to update service . In one embodiment the system make and model may include the manufacturer of the system such as Dell Hewlett Packard or Sony for example and a model number of the particular computer system that the manufacturer assigns. The update module may be able to access a system file that includes the actual system make and model information. In other cases if the exact system make and model cannot be sent then other system information is sent to update service for use in identifying the system. For example a script or application may be executed by the update module to collect a list of all hardware devices that can be obtained from the kernel and also get a list of hardware device IDs. The update module may also access a system package database which is a built in database that knows the software installed on the system to obtain the identifying information. The update module then submits this information to an online service e.g. update service . In some embodiments the update module may use an XML RPC protocol to send the information. In other embodiments the update module may use a REST protocol to send the information.

Once the system information from computing machine is received update service identifies any updates suggestions and other helpful particulars for the specifically identified computing machine . These updates suggestions and other particulars may include not only driver and software updates but also partnered software updates new features BIOS updates known errata safety or recall issues and a list of knowledge based items pertaining to the specific identified system of the computing machine . For ease of description the about updates suggestions and other particulars will be identified as customized aggregated system update information throughout the remaining description.

The customized aggregated system update information is collected and put together by update service once it receives the system identifying information from the computing device . In some embodiments a specific system model is not identified but rather only identification information of various pieces of hardware the OS and installed applications of the computing device is provided. In this case system analysis logic of update service may reference a database of such hardware OS and application combinations to determine the most likely system that the provided identifying information defines.

In some embodiments the database may be a community or vendor maintained database. In some cases both community and vendor maintained databases could exist with the latter containing only verified entries for officially supported platforms embodiments of a computing system . The database simply stores collections of known devices including their hardware identification information serial numbers model numbers unique device IDs for specific classes of devices etc. for each type of system. For example model X of a computer system by manufacturer Y may use devices from vendors A B and C with hardware identifiers and . The combination of devices used and the presence of the specific devices can be used to identify the system without having the precise manufacturer information available. This can also be used to classify systems for which no information is available. For example even if the model X is not known a generic name can be assigned to refer to systems that match the description in order to make useful suggestions. Typically results would be reviewed from time to time by authorized persons in order to correlate results with systems by hand or data may be added that is supplied by third parties in order to match systems with those vendors. This can be applied retroactively to existing stored search data entries.

Update service takes the identified system and references one or more different sources in order to collect the customized aggregated system update information tailored to the identified system of computing machine . For instance update service may reference a repository that includes a history of results previously returned for the identified system. In addition updates service may also reference one or more third party vendors to obtain their specific updates for hardware or software as well as marketing materials for the system known errata for the system and knowledge base articles for the system. In some embodiments one or more third party vendors may partner with update service to provide manual suggestions and updates for particular systems that utilize the update service .

Once the customized aggregated system update information is collected by update service results generation logic generates and sends back a result list with this information to the computing machine for display to an end user of the machine . In one embodiment this result list is in the form of a web page displayable by web browser . As such the end user of computing device is provided with a complete and exhaustive resource for updating and improving the specific system of computing machine . The end user does not have to reference multiple different vendor websites to obtain the resources it needs to updates various hardware and software of the system as well as identify known issues problems and fixes for that particular system.

Method begins at block where confirmation is received that an OS has been installed on a computing device. In one embodiment the OS is installed by an installer that notifies an update utility of the OS installation. Then at block system identifying information of the computing device is gathered. The system identifying information including make and model information may be accessed from a system file that includes the actual system make and model information. In other cases if the exact system make and model cannot be gathered then other system information may be collected for use in identifying the system. For example a script or application may be executed to collect a list of all hardware devices that can be obtained from the kernel and also to get a list of hardware device IDs. In addition a system package database which is a built in database that knows the software installed on the system may be accessed to obtain the identifying information of installed software.

At block the gathered computer system identifying information is sent to an online update service. The online update service operates to collect updates suggestions and other system specific particulars such as partnered software updates new features BIOS updates known errata safety or recall issues and knowledge based items pertaining to the specific identified system. At block this customized aggregated system update information is received in a result list from the online update service. In some embodiments this result list has a web page format. At block the customized aggregated system update information result list is displayed to an end user of the computer system. In one embodiment the result list may be displayed by a web browser to an end user.

Method begins at block where computer system identifying information is received at an update service from a computing device. In some embodiments the computer system identifying information includes a computer system make and model number of the computing device. In other embodiments the computer system identifying information includes but is not necessarily limited to a list of hardware a list of installed software and an OS version of the computing device.

At decision block it is determined whether the computer system identifying information includes a computer system make and model number. If so method proceeds to block . If not method proceeds to block where a database is referenced with the identifying information that was received in order to determine a particular system that encompasses the combination of the identifying information received from the computing device.

At block a repository is referenced with the identified system in order to obtain past historical result lists used for the particular system. In addition at block third party vendors are accessed in order to obtain updates and other system information for the various components of the identified system. The updates may include hardware updates software updates driver updates and so on. The other system information may include known errata and recalls associated fixes for these issues knowledge based articles and other relevant information for the specific identified system of the computing device. At block partner provided suggestions and updates for the particular identified system are also received.

Then at block all of the received information from blocks through is aggregated in to a customized result list of updates suggestions and information for the specific identified system. In some embodiments the customized result list may be in a hypertext format for viewing with a web browser. However embodiments of the invention are envisioned to utilize any various number of formats for presenting the customized result list. At block the generated customized result list is saved in the repository for future reference. Lastly at block the generated customized result list is sent back to the computing device.

As illustrated update results display page includes the system identifying information of the system it is generated for. In addition page is divided into various sections identifying the different types of information relevant to the identified system . For example page may include hardware updates software updates drivers known errata recall information partner provided suggestions such as updates and applications known to work well with the particular system and knowledge base articles relevant to the system.

Each section includes a description of its individual listed items and a hyperlink or other access information for that individual item. As such the end user of system is provided with a complete and exhaustive resource for updating and improving the specific system. The end user does not have to reference multiple different vendor websites to obtain the resources it needs to updates various hardware and software of the system as well as identify known issues problems and fixes for that particular system.

The exemplary computer system includes a processing device a main memory e.g. read only memory ROM flash memory dynamic random access memory DRAM such as synchronous DRAM SDRAM or Rambus DRAM RDRAM etc. a static memory e.g. flash memory static random access memory SRAM etc. and a data storage device which communicate with each other via a bus .

Processing device represents one or more general purpose processing devices such as a microprocessor central processing unit or the like. More particularly the processing device may be complex instruction set computing CISC microprocessor reduced instruction set computer RISC microprocessor very long instruction word VLIW microprocessor or processor implementing other instruction sets or processors implementing a combination of instruction sets. Processing device may also be one or more special purpose processing devices such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA a digital signal processor DSP network processor or the like. The processing device is configured to execute the processing logic for performing the operations and steps discussed herein.

The computer system may further include a network interface device . The computer system also may include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse and a signal generation device e.g. a speaker .

The data storage device may include a machine accessible storage medium on which is stored one or more set of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies of functions described herein. For example software may store instructions to perform customized aggregation of system specific information for Post Installation Suggestions by system described with respect to . The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processing device during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processing device also constituting machine accessible storage media. The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

The machine readable storage medium may also be used to store instructions to perform methods and for customized aggregation of system specific information for Post Installation Suggestions described with respect to and or a software library containing methods that call the above applications. While the machine accessible storage medium is shown in an exemplary embodiment to be a single medium the term machine accessible storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine accessible storage medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instruction for execution by the machine and that cause the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention. The term machine accessible storage medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories and optical and magnetic media.

Whereas many alterations and modifications of the present invention will no doubt become apparent to a person of ordinary skill in the art after having read the foregoing description it is to be understood that any particular embodiment shown and described by way of illustration is in no way intended to be considered limiting. Therefore references to details of various embodiments are not intended to limit the scope of the claims which in themselves recite only those features regarded as the invention.

