---

title: Ink jet printing apparatus and printing method
abstract: By suppressing deviation of dot-formation positions stemming from insufficient accuracy in conveying a printing medium due to eccentricity of a conveying roller, a printed image in which unevenness is less visible is obtained. An accumulated amount of conveyance errors is decreased by narrowing a nozzle-use range and reducing a conveyance amount over an entire printing region according to a mode used for printing an image in which the coverage of a printing medium is low due to a small number of ink colors to be used, for example, a mode used for printing a monochrome image by using a black ink dominantly in all of the density regions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08511779&OS=08511779&RS=08511779
owner: Canon Kabushiki Kaisha
number: 08511779
owner_city: Tokyo
owner_country: JP
publication_date: 20101123
---
This is a division of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 750 626 filed May 18 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 862 149 issued.

The present invention relates to an ink jet printing apparatus and a printing method for applying ink as a printing agent to a printing medium to form an image.

In these days OA Office Automation equipment such as personal computers and word processors have come into wide use and various printing apparatuses have been provided to print information outputted from this equipment on different types of printing media. An ink jet printer using ink as a printing agent is one of such printing apparatuses. In general the printing apparatus capable of printing color images applies printing agents of three colors including cyan C magenta M and yellow Y or of four color including black K in addition to the above three colors onto a printing medium and thereby forms an image with various colors expressed by subtractive color mixing.

However in recent years with a widespread use of digital cameras there is also a need for an image quality comparable to that of silver salt photographs even with an ink jet printing apparatus capable of easily outputting a shot image onto a printing medium such as paper. To this end there is an ink jet printing apparatus which is designed for enhancing image quality of print results of color photo like images by printing with low density inks of a light cyan Lc and a light magenta Lm in addition to the above ink of four colors.

Recently single lens reflex type digital cameras are marketed at relatively low prices and ink jet printing apparatuses are therefore used for printing monochrome images as well as color photo like images. Even when printing a monochrome image chromatic inks are used for correcting color tone in addition to a black ink that serves as a basic tone of the monochrome image.

When forming images print is made on the basis of a signal value that specifies an applied amount of a printing agent of each color. However even if the applied amounts of printing agents of the respective colors are specified on the basis of these signal values to obtain desired colors the desired colors cannot be faithfully reproduced in many cases. For example when sizes of dots formed on a printing medium with the respective printing agents are different even slightly from one another colors in a printed image composed of the collection of these dots may be observed as being slightly different from intended colors.

The above condition may occur in an ink jet printer due to a phenomenon in which an individual difference among printing heads results in a slight difference among the amounts volumes of ink droplets ejected respectively from printing heads for example. In an electro photographic printer the above condition may occur due to a slight difference among sizes of dots in a latent image formed on a photosensitive material. Moreover the slight difference among dot sizes may also occur due to a relationship between a type of printing medium to be used and characteristics of printing agents such as ink and toner. Furthermore the size of dots to be formed may also be changed due to the change of these printing apparatuses also of the printing head in a case of the ink jet printer over time.

In many image forming apparatus such a phenomenon may occur in which a color reproduced in an actual printed image is different from a color intended in a color space. In the present specification such a phenomenon is referred to as color deviation. 

The color deviation is noticeably observed when monochrome images for example achromatic images are formed. When forming such achromatic images only three color inks of C M and Y or of Lc Lm and Y are conventionally used particularly in a low density region a gray region .

However particularly in the low density region only three color inks of Lc Lm and Y are used to express the low density region gray . For this reason even a slight change in an applied amount of a printing agent of each color results in a relatively great change in hue due to an imbalance among the amounts of printing agents of these three colors. This makes it difficult to adjust the printing agents or the color materials thereof. Moreover even a slight change in the sizes of formed dots due to a slight change in the applied amounts results in a relatively large change in colors. This means that particularly in the gray region a chromatic color is added to an achromatic color which is originally intended to be printed. As a result color deviation is noticeably observed.

Japanese Patent Laid Open No. 2005 238835 discloses a color conversion LUT different from the above LUT.

An achromatic ink gray ink and the like. different from ink K in density is sometimes used in place of a plurality of chromatic inks for example see Japanese Patent Laid Open No. 2000 177150 . That is use of gray or black in all of the density regions can prevent color deviation in the same way as that disclosed in Japanese Patent Laid Open No. 2005 238835.

On the other hand use of the achromatic ink from the point in the low density region may worsen granular impression. However printing heads of which amount of ejected ink per dot is sufficiently small have recently been developed. In a case where a printing head of this kind is used formed dots are hardly noticeable at a distance of distinct vision. For this reason the color deviation rather than granular impression has an adverse effect on an image. Hence it is effective to apply the technique disclosed in Japanese Patent Laid Open No. 2000 177150 or No. 2005 238835.

As mentioned above in a case where the monochrome image is formed a large effect on the color deviation is demonstrated when an ink K is dominantly used from the low density region. However from a study on printed results of monochrome images with various densities the present inventors have discovered that an adverse effect on the image was increased in the wide density range due to deviation in dot formation positions.

Each of shows a dot arrangement in a case where the deviation in dot formation positions occurs at the time when the same image as that in or B is formed. As is clear from in a case where the ink K is dominantly used the number of dots forming the image is small that is the coverage is low. For this reason the amount of the ink to be applied to the printing medium is obviously less than that in a case of using the three color inks C M and Y. Accordingly it is apparent that the deviation in dot formation positions is conspicuous and that the deviation largely influences an appearance of the image as compared with a case where the deviation in dot formation positions occurs when the three color inks C M and Y are used .

The deviation in dot formation positions is caused by various factors such as noise components including variations in nozzle shapes of the printing heads and vibrations of the apparatus at the time of a print operation and a distance between the printing medium and the printing head. The present inventors have recognized that one of the significant factors for the deviation in dot formation positions was accuracy in conveying the printing medium. Normally a roller a conveying roller is used as a conveyance mechanism for conveying a printing medium and the conveying roller is rotated by the amount corresponding to a designated angle with the printing medium pressed thereagainst. Thereby the printing medium can be conveyed by the amount corresponding to a desired length. Accuracy in conveying a printing medium is determined by accuracy in stopping the conveying roller eccentricity of the conveying roller and the amount of slippage between the printing medium and the conveying roller.

The eccentricity of the conveying roller indicates a state in which the rotation axis of the conveying roller is shifted from the central axis thereof and is a major cause of the deviation in dot formation positions. The conveying roller is usually manufactured by controlling the amount of its eccentricity within a fixed amount. However the stricter standard for the amount of eccentricity causes a yield reduction of the conveying roller and thereby manufacturing costs for the printing apparatus increases. For this reason it is not favorable that the standard for the amount of eccentricity be made too strict.

However the eccentricity in the conveying roller causes a difference in the amount of conveyance of a printing medium even when the conveying roller rotates at the same rotation angle and this makes it impossible to convey a desired amount of the printing medium. Specifically when the difference is caused in the amount of conveyance dots are formed in positions shifted from originally intended positions along the conveyance direction of the printing medium. For this reason dots are formed sparsely in some positions and densely in other positions. As a result unevenness hereinafter referred to as eccentricity derived unevenness occurs with a cycle corresponding to the amount of conveyance which is equivalent to one revolution of the conveying roller.

It is easy to visually recognize the eccentricity derived unevenness particularly when a monochrome image is formed by using an ink K dominantly. In a case of such a monochrome image since dots of the ink K are dominantly present on a white printing medium the contrast therebetween is higher than that of dots of chromatic inks. Accordingly in portions white lines extending in the main scanning direction where dots are locally sparse due to the deviation of dot formation positions resulted from eccentric rotations of the conveying roller color of the printing medium itself is more likely to be seen for the same reason as that explained in . Thereby a strong contrast appears between the white lines and portions black lines extending in the main scanning direction where dots are locally dense. As a result this contrast is visually recognized easily as eccentricity derived unevenness which appears periodically in the direction of conveying the printing medium.

As mentioned above the eccentricity derived unevenness is markedly noticeable when an achromatic monochrome image is printed by using an ink K dominantly. However the eccentricity derived unevenness is primarily caused by eccentricity of a conveying roller. Accordingly even in a case of printing a monochrome image by using inks of other colors dominantly or in a case of printing an image in which the coverage of a printing medium is low due to only a small number of ink colors to be used the eccentricity derived unevenness occurs with a greater or lesser degree of visibility.

In view of the aforementioned circumstances an object of the present invention is to provide a structure in which it is possible to suppress deviation of dot formation positions stemming from insufficient accuracy in conveying a printing medium due to eccentricity of a conveying roller. In particular the present invention is effective in a case of forming a monochrome image in which coverage on a printing medium is low because of the small number of ink colors to be used at the time of printing the image and thereby in which the unevenness is more noticeable.

In a first aspect of the present invention there is provided an ink jet printing apparatus for printing an image on a printing medium by performing a print scan which makes a print while causing a printing head which includes arrays of printing elements for ejecting inks of different colors to scan on a printing medium and by conveying the printing medium in a direction intersecting with a direction of the print scan the apparatus comprising a print controller capable of executing the print scan which makes a print with a using range of the array of printing elements restricted to a part of the array over an entire printing region on the printing medium in a case where a printing mode for printing a monochrome image is selected.

In a second aspect of the present invention there is provided an ink jet printing method for printing an image on a printing medium by performing a print scan which makes a print while causing a printing head which includes arrays of printing elements for ejecting inks of different colors to scan on a printing medium and by conveying the printing medium in a direction intersecting with a direction of the print scan the method comprising the steps of designating a printing mode for printing a monochrome image and executing the print scan which makes a print with a using range of the array of printing elements restricted to a part of the array over an entire printing region of the printing medium according to at least the designation of the printing mode for printing a monochrome image.

According to the present invention in a case of forming a monochrome image in which the coverage on the printing medium is low because of the small number of ink colors to be used at the time of printing the image and thereby in which the unevenness is more noticeable a range of the nozzles to be used for printing hereinafter referred to as a nozzle use range is narrowed or the amount of conveyance of a printing medium is reduced in the entire printing region. This makes it possible to reduce an accumulated amount of conveyance errors and thus to effectively suppress the deviation of dot formation positions caused by insufficiency of conveyance accuracy.

Further features of the present invention will become apparent from the following description of exemplary embodiments with reference to the attached drawings .

Descriptions will be provided below for embodiments of the present invention by referring to the drawings.

Programs operated with an operating system of the host apparatus J include an application and a printer driver. An application J executes a process of generating image data with which the printing apparatus makes a print. Personal computers PC are capable of receiving these image data or pre edited data which is yet to process by use of various media. By means of a CF card the host apparatus according to this embodiment is capable of populating for example JPEG formatted image data associated with a photo taken with a digital camera. In addition the host apparatus according to this embodiment is capable of populating for example TIFF formatted image data read with a scanner and image data stored in a CD ROM. Moreover the host apparatus according to this embodiment is capable of capturing data from the Web through the Internet. These captured data are displayed on a monitor of the host apparatus. Thus an edit a process or the like is applied to these captured data by means of the application J. Thereby image data R G and B are generated for example in accordance with the sRGB specification. A user sets up a type of printing medium to be used for making a print a printing quality and the like through a UI screen displayed on the monitor of the host apparatus. The user also issues a print instruction through the UI screen. Depending on this print instruction the image data R G and B are transferred to the printer driver.

The printer driver includes a precedent process J a subsequent process J a correction process J a half toning process J and a print data creation process J as processes performed by itself. Brief descriptions will be provided below for these processes J to J.

The precedent process J performs mapping of a gamut. In this embodiment data are converted for the purpose of mapping the gamut reproduced by image data R G and B in accordance with the sRGB specification onto a gamut to be produced by the printing apparatus. Specifically a respective one of image data R G and B deal with 256 gradations of the respective one of colors which are represented by 8 bits. These image data R G and B are respectively converted to 8 bit data R G and B in the gamut of the printing apparatus J by use of a three dimensional LUT.

On the basis of the 8 bit data R G and B obtained by mapping the gamut the subsequent process J obtains 8 bit color separation data on each of the 10 colors. The 8 bit color separation data correspond to a combination of inks which are used for reproducing a color represented by the 8 bit data R G and B. In other words the subsequent process J obtains color separation data on each of Y M Lm C Lc K1 K2 R G and Gray. In this embodiment like the precedent process the subsequent process is carried out by using the three dimensional LUT simultaneously using an interpolating operation.

The correction J converts the color separation data on each of the 10 colors which have been obtained by the subsequent process J to a tone value gradation value representing the color. Specifically a one dimensional LUT corresponding to the gradation characteristic of each of the color inks in the printing apparatus J is used and thereby a conversion is carried so that the color separation data on the 10 colors can be linearly associated with the gradation characteristics of the printer.

The half toning process J quantizes the 8 bit color separation data on each of Y M Lm C Lc K1 K2 R G and Gray to which the correction process has been applied so as to convert the 8 bit separation data to 4 bit data. In this embodiment the 8 bit data dealing with the 256 gradations of each of the 10 colors are converted to 4 bit data dealing with 9 gradations by use of the error diffusion method. The 4 bit data are data which serve as indices each for indicating a dot arrangement pattern in a dot arrangement patterning process in the printing apparatus.

The last process performed by the printer driver is the print data creation process J. This process adds information on print control to data on an image to be printed whose contents are the 4 bit index data and thus creates print data.

The printing apparatus J performs a dot arrangement patterning process J and a mask data converting process J on the print data which have been supplied from the host apparatus J. Descriptions will be provided next for the dot arrangement patterning process J and the mask data converting process J.

In the above described half toning process J the number of gradation levels is reduced from the 256 tone values dealt with by multi valued tone information 8 bit data to the 9 tone values dealt with by information 4 bit data . However data with which the printing apparatus J is actually capable of making a print are binary data 1 bit data on whether or not an ink dot should be printed. Taken this into consideration the dot arrangement patterning process J assigns a dot arrangement pattern to each pixel represented by 4 bit data dealing with gradation levels 0 to 8 which are an outputted value from the half toning process J. The dot arrangement pattern corresponds to the tone value one of the levels 0 to 8 of the pixel. Thereby whether or not an ink dot should be printed whether a dot should be on or off is defined for each of a plurality of areas in each pixel. Thus 1 bit binary data indicating 1 one or 0 zero are assigned to each of the areas of the pixel. In this respect 1 one is binary data indicating that a dot should be printed. 0 zero is binary data indicating that a dot should not be printed.

In this figure an area in which a circle is drawn denotes an area where a dot is printed. As the level number increases the number of dots to be printed increases one by one. In this embodiment information on density of an original image is finally reflected in this manner.

From the left to the right 4n to 4n 3 denotes horizontal positions of pixels each of which receives data on an image to be printed. An integer not smaller than 1 one is substituted for n in the expression 4n to 4n 3 . The patterns listed under the expression indicate that a plurality of mutually different patterns are available depending on a position where a pixel is located even though the pixel receives an input at the same level. In other words the configuration is that even in a case where a pixel receives an input at one level the four types of dot arrangement patterns under the expression 4n to 4n 3 at the same level are assigned to the pixel in an alternating manner.

In the vertical direction is a direction in which the ejection openings of the printing head are arrayed and the horizontal direction is a direction in which the printing head moves. The configuration enabling a print to be made using the plurality of different dot arrangement patterns for one level brings about the following two effects. First the number of times that ejection is performed can be equalized between two nozzles in which one nozzle is in charge of the patterns located in the upper row of the dot arrangement patterns at one level and the other nozzle is in charge of the patterns located in the lower row of the dot arrangement patterns at the same level. Secondly various noises unique to the printing apparatus can be disgregated.

When the above described dot arrangement patterning process is completed the assignment of dot arrangement patterns to the entire printing medium is completed.

In the foregoing dot arrangement patterning process J whether or not a dot should be printed is determined for each of the areas on the printing medium. As a result if binary data indicating the dot arrangement are inputted to a drive circuit J of the printing head H a desired image can be printed. If the binary data derived from the dot arrangement patterning process J is inputted to the drive circuit J without intervention the mask data converting process J what is termed as a one pass print can be made. The one pass print means that a print to be made for a single scan region on a printing medium is completed by the printing head H moving once. On the contrary if the binary data derived from the dot arrangement patterning process J is inputted to the drive circuit J through the mask data converting process J what is termed as a multi pass print can be made. The multi pass print means that a print to be made for a single scan region on the printing medium is completed by the printing head moving a plurality of times. Here descriptions will be provided for a mask data converting process taking an example of the multi pass print.

Patterns denoted by reference numerals P to P show how an image is going to be completed by repeating a print scan. Each time a print scan is completed the printing medium is transferred by a width of the nozzle group a width of four nozzles in this figure in a direction indicated by an arrow in the figure. In other words the configuration is that an image in any same region a region corresponding to the width of each nozzle region on the printing medium is completed by repeating the print scan four times. Formation of an image in any same region on the printing medium by use of multiple nozzle groups by repeating the scan the plurality of times in the afore mentioned manner makes it possible to bring about an effect of reducing variations characteristic of the nozzles and an effect of reducing variations inaccuracy in transferring the printing medium.

In the case of the ink jet printing head applied to this embodiment which ejects a large number of fine ink droplets by means of a high frequency it has been known that an air flow occurs in a neighborhood of the printing part during printing operation. In addition it has been proven that this air flow particularly affects a direction in which ink droplets are ejected from nozzles located in the end portions of the printing head. For this reason in the case of the mask patterns of this embodiment a distribution of printable ratios is biased depending on which nozzle group a region belongs to and on where a region is located in each of the nozzle groups as seen from . As shown in by employing the mask patterns having a configuration which makes the printable ratios of the nozzles in the end portions of the printing head smaller than those of nozzles in a central portion thereof it is possible to make inconspicuous an adverse effect stemming from variations in positions where ink droplets ejected from the nozzles in the end portions of the printing head are landed. Incidentally in the present embodiment it is not indispensable that the mask pattern having the biased distribution of printable ratios is employed. In the present embodiment a mask pattern with an even distribution of printable ratios can be employed.

Note that a printable ratio specified by a mask pattern is as follows. A printable ratio of a mask pattern is a percentage denomination of a ratio of the number of printable areas constituting the mask pattern blackened areas in the mask pattern P to P of to the sum of the number of printable areas and the number of unprintable areas constituting the mask pattern the whitened areas in the mask patterns P to P of . In other words a printable ratio of a mask pattern is expressed by 100 where M denotes the number of printable areas constituting the mask pattern and N denotes the number of unprintable areas constituting the mask pattern.

In this embodiment data for the mask as shown in are stored in memory in the main body of the printing apparatus. The mask data converting process J performs the AND process on the mask data with the binary data obtained in the foregoing dot arrangement patterning process. Thereby binary data to be a print object in each print scan are determined. Subsequently the binary data are transferred to the driving circuit J. Thus the printing head H is driven and hence inks are ejected in accordance with the binary data.

Descriptions will be provided for a configuration of the mechanisms in the printing apparatus to which this embodiment is applied. The main body of the printing apparatus of this embodiment is divided into a paper feeding section a paper conveying section a paper discharging section a carriage section a flat pass printing section and a cleaning section from a viewpoint of functions performed by the mechanisms. These mechanisms are contained in an outer case.

Descriptions will be provided for each of the sections by referring to these figures whenever deemed necessary.

The outer case is attached to the main body of the printing apparatus in order to cover the paper feeding section the paper conveying section the paper discharging section the carriage section the cleaning section the flat pass section and the wetting liquid transferring unit. The outer case is configured chiefly of a lower case M an upper case M an access cover M a connector cover and a front cover M.

Paper discharging tray rails not illustrated are provided under the lower case M and thus the lower case M has a configuration in which a divided paper discharging tray M is capable of being contained therein. In addition the front cover M is configured to close the paper discharging port while the printing apparatus is not used.

An access cover M is attached to the upper case M and is configured to be turnable. A part of the top surface of the upper case has an opening portion. The printing apparatus has a configuration in which each of ink tanks H or the printing head H refer to is replaced with a new one in this position. Incidentally in the printing apparatus of this embodiment the printing head H has a configuration in which a plurality of ejecting portions are formed integrally into one unit. The plurality of ejecting portions corresponding respectively to a plurality of mutually different colors and each of the plurality of ejecting portions is capable of ejecting an ink of one color. In addition the printing head is configured as a printing head cartridge H which the ink tanks H are capable of being attached to and detached from independently of one another depending on the respective colors. The upper case M is provided with a door switch lever not illustrated LED guides M a power supply key E a resume key E a flat pass key E and the like. The door switch lever detects whether the access cover M is opened or closed. Each of the LED guides M transmits and displays light from the respective LEDs. Furthermore a multi stage paper feeding tray M is turnably attached to the upper case M. While the paper feeding section is not used the paper feeding tray M is contained within the upper case M. Thus the upper case M is configured to function as a cover for the paper feeding section.

The upper case M and the lower case M are attached to each other by elastic fitting claws. A part provided with a connector portion therebetween is covered with a connector cover not illustrated .

As shown in the paper feeding section is configured as follows. A pressure plate M a paper feeding roller M a separation roller M a return lever M and the like are attached to a base M. The pressure plate M is that on which printing media are stacked. The paper feeding roller M feeds the printing media sheet by sheet. The separation roller M separates a printing medium. The return lever M is used for returning the printing medium to a stacking position.

A conveying roller M for conveying a printing medium is rotatably attached to a chassis M made of an upwardly bent plate. The conveying roller M has a configuration in which the surface of a metal shaft is coated with ceramic fine particles. The conveying roller M is attached to the chassis M in a state in which metallic parts respectively of the two ends of the shaft are received by bearings not illustrated . The conveying roller M is provided with a roller tension spring not illustrated . The roller tension spring pushes the conveying roller M and thereby applies an appropriate amount of load to the conveying roller M while the conveying roller M is rotating. Accordingly the conveying roller M is capable of conveying printing medium stably.

The conveying roller M is provided with a plurality of pinch rollers M in a way that the plurality of pinch rollers M abut on the conveying roller M. The plurality of pinch rollers M are driven by the conveying roller M. The pinch rollers M are held by a pinch roller holder M. The pinch rollers M are pushed respectively by pinch roller springs not illustrated and thus are brought into contact with the conveying roller M with the pressure. This generates a force for conveying printing medium. At this time since the rotation shaft of the pinch roller holder M is attached to the bearings of the chassis M the rotation shaft rotates thereabout.

A paper guide flapper M and a platen M are disposed in an inlet to which a printing medium is conveyed. The paper guide flapper M and the platen M guide the printing medium. In addition the pinch roller holder M is provided with a PE sensor lever M. The PE sensor lever M transmits a result of detecting the front end or the rear end of each of the printing medium to a paper end sensor hereinafter referred to as a PE sensor E fixed to the chassis M. The platen M is attached to the chassis M and is positioned thereto. The paper guide flapper M is capable of rotating about a bearing unit not illustrated and is positioned to the chassis M by abutting on the chassis M.

The printing head H refer to is provided at a side downstream in a direction in which the conveying roller M conveys the printing medium.

Descriptions will be provided for a process of conveying printing medium in the printing apparatus with the foregoing configuration. A printing medium sent to the paper conveying section is guided by the pinch roller holder M and the paper guide flapper M and thus is sent to a pair of rollers which are the conveying roller and the pinch roller M. At this time the PE sensor lever M detects an edge of the printing medium. Thereby a position in which a print is made on the printing medium is obtained. The pair of rollers which are the conveying roller M and the pinch roller M are driven by an LF motor E and are rotated. This rotation causes the printing medium to be conveyed over the platen M. A rib is formed in the platen M and the rib serves as a conveyance datum surface. A gap between the printing head H and the surface of the printing medium is controlled by this rib. Simultaneously the rib also suppresses flapping of the printing medium in cooperation with the paper discharging section which will be described later.

A driving force with which the conveying roller M rotates is obtained by transmitting a torque of the LF motor E consisting for example of a DC motor to a pulley M disposed on the shaft of the conveying roller M through a timing belt not illustrated . A code wheel M for detecting an amount of conveyance performed by the conveying roller M is provided on the shaft of the conveying roller M. In addition an encode sensor M for reading a marking formed in the code wheel M is disposed in the chassis M adjacent to the code wheel M. Incidentally the marking formed in the code wheel M is assumed to be formed at a pitch of 150 to 300 lpi line inch an example value .

The paper discharging section is configured of a first paper discharging roller M a second paper discharging roller M a plurality of spurs M and a gear train.

The first paper discharging roller M is configured of a plurality of rubber portions provided around the metal shaft thereof. The first paper discharging roller M is driven by transmitting the driving force of the conveying roller M to the first paper discharging roller M through an idler gear.

The second paper discharging roller M is configured of a plurality of elastic elements M which are made of elastomer attached to the resin made shaft thereof. The second paper discharging roller M is driven by transmitting the driving force of the first paper discharging roller M to the second paper discharging roller M through an idler gear.

Each of the spurs M is formed by integrating a circular thin plate and a resin part into one unit. A plurality of convex portions are provided to the circumference of each of the spurs M. Each of the spurs M is made for example of SUS. The plurality of spurs M are attached to a spur holder M. This attachment is performed by use of a spur spring obtained by forming a coiled spring in the form of a stick. Simultaneously a spring force of the spur spring causes the spurs M to abut respectively on the paper discharging rollers M and M at predetermined pressures. This configuration enables the spurs to rotate to follow the two paper discharging rollers M and M. Some of the spurs M are provided at the same positions as corresponding ones of the rubber portions of the first paper discharging roller M are disposed or at the same positions as corresponding ones of the elastic elements M are disposed. These spurs chiefly generate a force for conveying printing medium. In addition others of the spurs M are provided at positions where none of the rubber portions and the elastic elements M is provided. These spurs M chiefly suppresses lift of a printing medium while a print is being made on the printing medium.

Furthermore the gear train transmits the driving force of the conveying roller M to the paper discharging rollers M and M.

With the foregoing configuration a printing medium on which an image is formed is pinched with nips between the first paper discharging roller M and the spurs M and thus is conveyed. Accordingly the printing medium is delivered to the paper discharging tray M. The paper discharging tray M is divided into a plurality of parts and has a configuration in which the paper discharging tray M is capable of being contained under the lower case M which will be described later. When used the paper discharging tray M is drawn out from under the lower case M. In addition the paper discharging tray M is designed to be elevated toward the front end thereof and is also designed so that the two side ends thereof are held at a higher position. The design enhances the stackability of printing media and prevents the printing surface of each of the printing media from being rubbed.

The carriage section includes a carriage M to which the printing head H is attached. The carriage M is supported with a guide shaft M and a guide rail M. The guide shaft M is attached to the chassis M and guides and supports the carriage M so as to cause the carriage M to perform reciprocating scan in a direction perpendicular to a direction in which a printing medium is conveyed. The guide rail M is formed in a way that the guide rail M and the chassis M are integrated into one unit. The guide rail M holds the rear end of the carriage M and thus maintains the space between the printing head H and the printing medium. A slide sheet M formed of a thin plate made of stainless steel or the like is stretched on a side of the guide rail M on which side the carriage M slides. This makes it possible to reduce sliding noises of the printing apparatus.

The carriage M is driven by a carriage motor E through a timing belt M. The carriage motor E is attached to the chassis M. In addition the timing belt M is stretched and supported by an idle pulley M. Furthermore the timing belt M is connected to the carriage M through a carriage damper made of rubber. Thus image unevenness is reduced by damping the vibration of the carriage motor E and the like.

An encoder scale E for detecting the position of the carriage M is provided in parallel with the timing belt M the encoder scale E will be described later by referring to . Markings are formed on the encoder scale E at pitches in a range of 150 lpi to 300 lpi. An encoder sensor E for reading the markings is provided on a carriage board E installed in the carriage M the encoder sensor E and the carriage board E will be described later by referring to . Ahead contact E for electrically connecting the carriage board E to the printing head H is also provided to the carriage board E. Moreover a flexible cable E not illustrated is connected to the carriage M the flexible cable E will be described later by referring to . The flexible cable E is that through which a drive signal is transmitted from an electric substrate E to the printing head H.

As for components for fixing the printing head H to the carriage M the following components are provided to the carriage M. An abutting part not illustrated and pressing means not illustrated are provided on the carriage M. The abutting part is with which the printing head H positioned to the carriage M while pushing the printing head H against the carriage M. The pressing means is with which the printing head H is fixed at a predetermined position. The pressing means is mounted on a headset lever M. The pressing means is configured to act on the printing head H when the headset lever M is turned about the rotation support thereof in a case where the printing head H is intended to be set up.

Moreover a position detection sensor M including a reflection type optical sensor is attached to the carriage M. The position detection sensor is used while a print is being made on a special medium such as a CD R or when a print result or the position of an edge of a sheet of paper is being detected. The position detection sensor M is capable of detecting the current position of the carriage M by causing a light emitting device to emit light and by thus receiving the emitted light after reflecting off the carriage M.

In a case where an image is formed on a printing medium in the printing apparatus the set of the conveying roller M and the pinch rollers M transfers the printing medium and thereby the printing medium is positioned in terms of a position in a column direction. In terms of a position in a row direction by using the carriage motor E to move the carriage M in a direction perpendicular to the direction in which the printing medium is conveyed the printing head H is located at a target position where an image is formed. The printing head H thus positioned ejects inks onto the printing medium in accordance with a signal transmitted from the electric substrate E. Descriptions will be provided later for details of the configuration of the printing head H and a printing system. The printing apparatus of this embodiment alternately repeats a printing main scan and a sub scan. During the printing main scan the carriage M scans in the row direction while the printing head H is making a print. During the sub scan the printing medium is conveyed in the column direction by conveying roller M. Thereby the printing apparatus is configured to form an image on the printing medium.

A printing medium is fed from the paper feed section in a state where the printing medium is bent because the passage through which the printing medium passes continues curving up to the pinch rollers as shown in . For this reason if a thicker printing medium with a thickness of approximately 0.5 mm or more for example is attempted to be fed from the paper feeding section a reaction force of the bent printing medium occurs and thus resistance to the paper feeding increases. As a result it is likely that the printing medium cannot be fed. Otherwise even if the printing medium can be fed the delivered printing medium remains bent or is folded.

A flat pass print is made on printing media such as thicker printing media which a user does not wish to fold and on printing media such as CD Rs which cannot be bent.

Types of flat pass prints include a type of print made by manually supplying a printing medium from a slit shaped opening portion under a paper feeding unit in the back of the main body of a printing apparatus and by thus causing pinch rollers of the main body to nip the printing medium. However the flat pass print of this embodiment employs the following mode. A printing medium is fed from the paper discharging port located in the front side of the main body of the printing apparatus to a position where a print is going to be made and the print is made on the printing medium by switching back the printing medium.

The front cover M is usually located below the paper discharging section because the front cover M is also used as a tray in which several tens of printing media on which prints have been made are stacked refer to . When a flat pass print is going to be made the front tray M is elevated up to a position where the paper discharging port is located refer to for the purpose of supplying a printing medium from the paper discharging port horizontally in a direction reverse to the direction in which a printing medium is usually conveyed. Hooks and the like not illustrated are provided to the front cover M. Thus the front cover M is capable of being fixed to a position where the printing medium is supplied for the purpose of the flat pass print. It can be detected by a sensor whether or not the front cover M is located at the position where the printing medium is supplied for the purpose of the flat pass print. Depending on this detection it can be determined whether the printing apparatus is in a flat pass printing mode.

In the case of the flat pass printing mode first of all a flat pass key E is operated for the purpose of placing a printing medium on the front tray M and inserting the printing medium from the paper discharging port. Thereby a mechanism not illustrated lifts the spur holder M and the pinch roller holder M respectively up to positions higher than a presumed thickness of the printing medium. In addition in a case where the carriage M exists in an area through which the printing medium is going to pass a lifting mechanism not illustrated lifts the carriage M up. This makes it easy to insert the printing medium therein. Moreover by pressing a rear tray button M a rear tray M can be opened. Furthermore a rear sub tray M can be opened in the form of the letter V refer to . The rear tray M and the rear sub tray M are trays with which a long printing medium is supported in the back of the main body of the printing apparatus. This is because if the long printing medium is inserted from the front of the main body of the printing apparatus the long printing medium juts out of the back of the main body of the printing apparatus. If a thicker printing medium is not kept flat while a print is being made on the thicker printing medium the thicker printing medium may be rubbed against a face ejection face of the head on which ejection openings are disposed or the conveyance load may change. This is likely to adversely affect the print quality. For this reason the disposition of these trays is effective. However if a printing medium is not long enough to jut out of the back of the main body of the printing apparatus the rear tray M and the like need not be opened.

In the foregoing manner a printing medium can be inserted from the paper discharging port to the inside of the main body of the printing apparatus. A printing medium is positioned on the front tray M by aligning the rear edge an edge at the side located closest to a user and the right edge of the printing medium to a position in the front tray M where a marker is formed.

At this time if the flat pass key E is operated once again the spur holder M comes down and thus the paper discharging rollers M M and the spurs M jointly nip the printing medium. Thereafter the paper discharging rollers M and M draw the printing medium into the main body of the printing apparatus by a predetermined amount thereof in a direction reverse to the direction in which the printing medium is conveyed during normal printing . Because the edge at the side closest to the user the rear edge of a printing medium is aligned to the marker when the printing medium is set up at the beginning it is likely that the front edge the edge located farthest from a user of the printing medium may not reach the conveying roller M if the printing medium is shorter. With this taken into consideration the predetermined amount is defined as a distance between the rear edge of a printing medium with the presumably shortest length and the conveying roller M. Once a printing medium is transferred by the predetermined amount the rear edge of the printing medium reaches the conveying roller M. Thus the pinch roller holder M is lowered at the position and the conveying roller M and the pinch rollers M are caused to nip the printing medium. Subsequently the printing medium is further transferred so that the rear edge of the printing medium is nipped by the conveying roller M and the pinch rollers M. Thereby the supplying of the printing medium for the purpose of the flat pass print is completed at a position where the printing medium waits for a print to be made thereon .

A nip force with which the paper discharging roller M and M as well as the spurs M nip a printing medium is set relatively weak lest the force should adversely affect image formation while the printing medium is being delivered during a normal print. For this reason in the case where a flat pass print is going to be made it is likely that the position of the printing medium shifts before the print starts. In this embodiment however a printing medium is nipped by the conveying roller M and the pinch rollers M which have a relatively stronger nip force. This secures a position where a printing medium should be set. In addition while a printing medium is being conveyed into the inside of the main body by the predetermined amount a flat pass paper detection sensor lever hereinafter referred to as an FPPE sensor lever M blocks or forms a light path of an FPPE sensor E which is an infrared ray sensor and which is not illustrated here. Thereby the position of the rear edge the position of the front edge during the print of the printing medium can be detected. Incidentally the FPPE sensor lever may be rotatably provided between the platen M and the spur holder M.

Once a printing medium is set at the position where the printing medium waits for a print to be made thereon a print command is executed. Specifically the conveying roller M conveys the printing medium to a position where the printing head H is going to make a print on the printing medium. Thereafter the print is made in the same manner as a normal printing operation is performed. After the print the printing medium is discharged to the front tray M.

In a case where the flat pass print is intended to be made successively the printing medium on which the print has been made is removed from the front tray M and the next printing medium is set thereon. After that it is sufficient that the foregoing processes are repeated. Specifically the subsequent print starts with the setting of a printing medium after the spur holder M and the pinch roller holder M are lifted up by pressing the flat pass key E.

On the other hand in a case where the flat pass print is intended to be completed the printing apparatus is returned to the normal printing mode by returning the front tray M to the normal print position.

The cleaning section is a mechanism for cleaning the printing head H. The cleaning section is configured of a pump M caps M a wiper portion M and the like. The caps M are those which prevent the printing head H from being dried out. The wiper portion M is used for cleaning the surface of the printing head H on which the ejection openings are formed.

In the case of this embodiment a chief driving force of the cleaning section is transmitted from an AP motor E see . The pump M is designed to be operated by rotation in one direction which is generated by means of a one way clutch not illustrated . The wiper portion M and the caps M are designed to ascend and descend by rotation in the other direction which is generated by the one way clutch Incidentally the AP motor E is also used as a driving power supply for an operation of feeding printing medium but a motor specialized for operating the cleaning section may be provided to the cleaning section instead.

The motor E drives the caps M so as for the caps M to be capable of ascending and descending by means of an ascending descending mechanism not illustrated . When the caps M go up to an ascending position the caps M cap each of the ejection faces of several ejecting portions provided to the printing head H. While no print operation is being performed the caps M can protect the printing head H. Otherwise the caps M can recover the printing head H by suction. While a print operation is being performed the caps M can be placed in a descending position which prevents the caps M from interfering with the printing head H. In addition by opposing the caps M to the ejection face the caps M are capable of receiving preliminary ejections. In a case where for instance the printing head H is provided with ten ejecting portions two caps M are provided to the cleaning section in the illustrated example so that the ejection face corresponding to each five ejecting portions can be capped collectively by corresponding one of the two caps M.

A wiper portion M made of an elastic member such as rubber is fixed to a wiper holder not illustrated . The wiper holder is capable of moving in directions indicated by Y and Y in Y and Y are directions in which the ejection openings in the ejecting portions are arranged . When the printing head H gets to the home position the wiper holder moves in the direction indicated by an arrow Y. Thereby a surface of the printing head H can be wiped. Once the wiping operation is completed the carriage is caused to escape out of the range where the wiping operation is designed to be performed and thus the wiper is returned to a position which prevents the wiper from interfering with the ejection face and the like. Incidentally the wiper portion M of this example is provided with a wiper blade MA for wiping the entire surface of the printing head H including all of the ejection faces of the ejecting portions. In addition the wiper portion M is provided with the other two wiper blades MB and MC. The wiper blade MB wipes vicinities of nozzles for ejection faces of five of the ten ejecting portions whereas the wiper blade MC wipes vicinities of nozzles for ejection faces of the other five of the ten ejecting portions.

After wiping the wiper portion M abuts on a blade cleaner M. Thereby the wiper blades MA to MC are configured to be cleaned of inks and the like which have been adhered to themselves. In addition the wiper portion M has the following configuration a wetting liquid transferring unit . A wetting liquid is transferred onto the wiper blades MA to MC before wiping. This enhances cleaning performance of the wiping operation. Descriptions will be provided later for a configuration of this wetting liquid transferring unit and the wiping operation.

The suction pump M is capable of generating negative pressure in a state where an airtight space is formed inside the cap M by connecting the cap M to the ejection faces. Thereby inks can be filled in the ejecting portions from the ink tanks H. In addition dust adhering matter bubbles and the like which exist in the ejection openings and the internal ink passage leading to the ejection openings can be removed by suction.

What is used for the suction pump M is for example a tube pump. This includes a member having a curved surface which is formed by squeezing and holding at least part of a flexible tube a roller being capable of pressing the flexible tube towards the member and a roller supporting part which supports the roller and which is capable of rotating. Specifically the roller supporting part is rotated in a predetermined direction and thereby the roller is rolled on the member in which the curved surface has been formed while pressing the flexible tube. In response to this the negative pressure is generated in the airtight space formed by the cap M. This negative pressure sucks inks from the ejection openings and subsequently sucks up the inks into the tube or the suction pump from the cap M. Thereafter the sucked inks are further transferred to a suitable member a waste ink absorbing member provided inside the lower case M.

Note that an absorbing member M is provided to the inside portion of the cap M for the purpose of reducing the amount of inks remaining on the ejection faces of the printing head H after the suction. In addition consideration is made for sucking inks which remain in the cap M and the absorbing member M in a state where the cap M is opened and for thus precluding the ink residue from coagulating and for accordingly preventing an adverse affect from occurring subsequently by sucking. It is desirable that no abrupt negative pressure should work on the ejection faces by providing an open to atmosphere valve not illustrated in a middle of the ink suction passage and by thus beforehand opening the valve when the cap M is intended to be detached from the ejection faces.

Furthermore the suction pump M can be operated not only for the purpose of the recovery by suction but also for the purpose of discharging inks which have been received by the cap M by the preliminary ejection operation performed in the state where the cap M is opposite to the ejection faces. Specifically when an amount of inks held in the cap M after preliminary ejection reaches a predetermined amount the inks held in the cap M can be transferred to the waste ink absorbing member through the tube by operating the suction pump M.

The series of operations performed successively such as the operations of the wiper portion M the ascent descent of the cap M and the opening closing of the valve can be controlled by means of a main cam not illustrated provided on the output axle of the motor E and a plurality of cams and arms and like which move so as to follow the main cam. Specifically rotation of the main cam in response to a direction in which the motor E rotates operates cams arms and the like in each of the units and parts. Thereby the predetermined operations can be performed. The position of the main cam can be detected with a position detection sensor such as a photo interrupter.

Recently inks containing pigment components as coloring agents pigmented inks are increasingly used for the purpose of enhancing the printing density water resistance light resistance of printed materials. Pigmented inks are produced through dispersing coloring agents themselves which are originally solids into water by adding dispersants thereto or by introducing functional groups to pigment surfaces. Consequently dried matter of pigmented inks resulting from drying the inks through evaporating moisture from the inks on the ejection faces damages the ejection faces more than dried coagulated matter of dyed inks in which the coloring agents are dissolved at molecular level. In addition polymer compounds used for dispersing the pigments into the solvent are apt to be adsorbed to the ejection faces. This type of problem occurs in matter other than pigmented inks in a case where polymer compounds exist in the inks as a result of adding reactive liquids to the inks for the purpose of administering the viscosities of the inks for the purpose of enhancing the light resistance of the inks or for other purposes.

In this embodiment a liquid is transferred onto and adhered to the blades of the wiper portion M and thus the wiping operation is performed with the wetted blades M in order to solve the foregoing problem. Thereby the present embodiment attempts at preventing the ejection faces from deteriorating due to the pigmented inks at reducing the abrasion of the wiper and at removing the accumulated matter by dissolving the ink residue accumulated on the ejection faces. Such a liquid is termed as the wetting liquid from the viewpoint of its function in the description. The wiping by use of this liquid is termed as the wet wiping.

This embedment adopts a configuration in which the wetting liquid is stored inside the main body of the printing apparatus. Reference numeral M denotes a wetting liquid tank. As the wetting liquid a glycerin solution or the like is contained in the wetting liquid tank M. Reference numeral M denotes a wetting liquid holding member which is fibrous member or the like. The wetting liquid holding member M has an adequate surface tension for the purpose of preventing the wetting liquid from leaking from the wetting liquid tank M. The wetting liquid holding member M is impregnated with and holds the wetting liquid. Reference numeral M denotes a wetting liquid transferring member which is made for example of a porous material having an adequate capillary force. The wetting liquid transferring member M includes a wetting liquid transferring part M which is in contact with the wiper blade. The wetting liquid transferring member M is also in contact with the wetting liquid holding member M infiltrated with the wetting liquid. As a result the wetting liquid transferring member M is also infiltrated with the wetting liquid. The wetting liquid transferring member M is made of the material having the capillary force which enables the wetting liquid to be supplied to the wetting liquid transferring part M even if a smaller amount of wetting liquid remains

Descriptions will be provided for operations of the wetting liquid transferring unit and the wiper portion.

First of all the cap M is set at the descending position and thus is escaped to a position where the carriage M does not contact the blades MA to MC In this state the wiper portion M is moved in the Y direction and is caused to pass through the part of the blade cleaner M. Accordingly the wiper portion M is caused to abut on the wetting liquid transferring part M refer to . By keeping the wiper portion M in contact with the wetting liquid transferring part M for an adequate length of time an adequate amount of wetting liquid is transferred onto the wiper portion M.

Subsequently the wiper portion M is moved in the Y direction. The blade contacts the blade cleaner M only in a part of the surface of the blade cleaner M and no wetting liquid is adhered to the part. For this reason the wetting liquid remains to be held on the blade.

The blade is returned to the position where the wiping operation has been started. Thereafter the carriage M is moved to the position where the wiping operation is designed to be performed. Subsequently the wiper portion M is moved in the Y direction. Thereby the ejection faces of the printing head H can be wiped with the surface to which the wetting liquid is adhered.

The power supply unit E is connected to the main substrate E and thus supplies various types of drive power.

The carriage board E is a printed circuit board unit mounted on the carriage M. The carriage board E functions as an interface for transmitting signals to and receiving signals from the printing head H and for supplying head driving power through the head connector E. The carriage board E includes a head driving voltage modulation circuit E with a plurality of channels to the respective ejecting portions of the printing head H. The plurality of ejecting portions corresponding respectively to the plurality of mutually different colors. In addition the head driving voltage modulation circuit E generates head driving power supply voltages in accordance with conditions specified by the main substrate E through the flexible flat cable CRFFC E. In addition change in a positional relationship between the encoder scale E and the encoder sensor E is detected on the basis of a pulse signal outputted from the encoder sensor E in conjunction with the movement of the carriage M. Moreover the outputted signal is supplied to the main substrate E through the flexible flat cable CRFFC E.

An optical sensor E and a thermistor E are connected to the carriage board E as shown in . The optical sensor E is configured of two light emitting devices LEDs E and a light receiving element E. The thermistor E is that with which an ambient temperature is detected. Hereinafter these sensors are referred to as a multisensor system E. Information obtained by the multisensor system E is outputted to the main substrate E through the flexible flat cable CRFFC E.

The main substrate E is a printed circuit board unit which drives and controls each of the sections of the ink jet printing apparatus of this embodiment. The main substrate E includes a host interface host I F E thereon. The main substrate E controls print operations on the basis of data received from the host apparatus J . The main substrate E is connected to and controls various types of motors including the carriage motor E the LF motor E the AP motor E and the PR motor E. The carriage motor E is a motor serving as a driving power supply for causing the carriage M to perform main scan. The LF motor E is a motor serving as a driving power supply for conveying printing medium. The AP motor E is a motor serving as a driving power supply for causing the printing head H to perform recovery operations. The PR motor E is a motor serving as a driving power supply for performing a flat pass print operation and the main substrate E thus controls drive of each of the functions. Moreover the main substrate E is connected to sensor signals E which are used for transmitting control signals to and receiving detection signals from the various sensors such as a PF sensor a CR lift sensor an LF encoder sensor and a PG sensor for detecting operating conditions of each of the sections in the printer. The main substrate E is connected to the CRFFC E and the power supply unit E. Furthermore the main substrate E includes an interface for transmitting information to and receiving information from a front panel E through panel signals E.

The front panel E is a unit provided to the front of the main body of the printing apparatus for the sake of convenience of user s operations. The front panel E includes the resume key E the LED guides M the power supply key E and the flat pass key E refer to . The front panel E further includes a device I F E which is used for connecting peripheral devices such as a digital camera to the printing apparatus.

In reference numeral E denotes an ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit . The ASIC E is connected to a ROM. E through a control bus E and thus performs various controls in accordance with programs stored in the ROM E. For example the ASIC E transmits sensor signals E concerning the various sensors and multisensor signals E concerning the multisensor system E. In addition the ASIC E receives sensor signals E concerning the various sensors and multisensor signals E concerning the multisensor system. Furthermore the ASIC E detects encoder signals E as well as conditions of outputs from the power supply key E the resume key E and the flat pass key E on the front panel E. In addition the ASIC E performs various logical operations and makes decisions on the basis of conditions depending on conditions in which the host I F E and the device I F E on the front panel are connected to the ASIC E and on conditions in which data are inputted. Thus the ASIC E controls the various components and accordingly drives and controls the ink jet printing apparatus.

Reference E denotes a driver reset circuit. In accordance with motor controlling signals E from the ASIC E the driver reset circuit E generates CR motor driving signals E LF motor driving signals E AP motor driving signals E and PR motor driving signals and thus drives the motors. In addition the driver reset circuit E includes a power supply circuit and thus supplies necessary power to each of the main substrate E the carriage board E the front panel E and the like. Moreover once the driver reset circuit E detects drop of the power supply voltage the driver reset circuit E generates reset signals E and thus performs initialization.

Reference numeral E denotes a power supply control circuit. In accordance with power supply controlling signals E outputted from the ASIC E the power supply control circuit E controls the supply of power to each of the sensors which include light emitting devices.

The host I F E transmits host I F signals E which are outputted from the ASIC E to a host I F cable E connected to the outside. In addition the host I F E transmits signals which come in through this cable E to the ASIC E.

Meanwhile the power supply unit E supplies power. The supplied power is supplied to each of the components inside and outside the main substrate E after voltage conversion depending on the necessity. Furthermore power supply unit controlling signals E outputted from the ASIC E are connected to the power supply unit E and thus a lower power consumption mode or the like of the main body of the printing apparatus is controlled.

The ASIC E is a single chip semiconductor integrated circuit incorporating an arithmetic processing unit. The ASIC E outputs the motor controlling signals E the power supply controlling signals E the power supply unit controlling signals E and the like. In addition the ASIC E transmits signals to and receives signals from the host I F E. Furthermore the ASIC E transmits signals to and receives signals from the device I F E on the front panel by use of the panel signals E. As well the ASIC E detects conditions by means of the sensors such as the PE sensor and an ASF sensor with the sensor signals E. Moreover the ASIC E controls the multisensor system E with the multisensor signals E and thus detects conditions. In addition the ASIC E detects conditions of the panels signals E and thus controls the drive of the panel signals E. Accordingly the ASIC E turns on off the LEDs E on the front panel.

The ASIC E detects conditions of the encoder signals ENC E and thus generates timing signals. The ASIC E interfaces with the printing head H with head controlling signals E and thus controls print operations. In this respect the encoder signals ENC E are signals which are receives from the CRFFC E and which have been outputted from the encoder sensor E. In addition the head controlling signals E are connected to the carriage board E through the flexible flat cable E. Subsequently the head controlling signals E are supplied to the printing head H through the head driving voltage modulation circuit E and the head connector E. Various types of information from the printing head H are transmitted to the ASIC E. Signals representing information on head temperature of each of the ejecting portions among the types of information are amplified by a head temperature detecting circuit E on the main substrate and thereafter the signals are inputted into the ASIC E. Thus the signals are used for various decisions on controls.

In the figure reference numeral E denotes a DRAM. The DRAM E is used as a data buffer for a print a buffer for data received from the host computer and the like. In addition the DRAM is used as work areas needed for various control operations.

Descriptions will be provided below for a configuration of the head cartridge H to which this embodiment is applied.

The head cartridge H in this embodiment includes the printing head H means for mounting the ink tanks H on the printing head H and means for supplying inks from the respective ink tanks H to the printing head H. The head cartridge H is detachably mounted on the carriage M.

The ten colors used in the present invention are cyan C light cyan Lc magenta M light magenta Lm yellow Y black 1 K1 black 2 K2 gray Gray red R and green G . It is desirable that all of the coloring agents used respectively for the ten colors should be pigments. In this respect for the purpose of dispersing the pigments publicly known dispersants may be used. Otherwise for the purpose it is sufficient that pigments surfaces are modified by use of a publicly known method and that self dispersants are added thereto. In addition coloring agents used for at least some of the colors may be dyes as long as the use agrees with the spirit and scope of the present invention. Furthermore coloring agents used for at least some of the colors may be what are obtained by harmonizing pigments and dyes in color and a plurality of kinds of pigments may be included therein. Moreover as for the ten colors of the present invention at least one kind of substance selected from the group consisting of an aqueous organic solvent an additive a surfactant a binder and an antiseptic may be included in therein as long as the inclusion is within the spirit and the scope of the present invention.

The present invention basically aims to provide a structure capable of suppressing deviation of dot formation positions caused by insufficiency of conveyance accuracy due to eccentricity of a conveying roller.

As a result an image which should be printed as that in the schematic diagram in if the conveyance accuracy is ideal is printed as an image having stripe shaped unevenness eccentricity derived unevenness periodically appearing in a conveyance direction with an amount of conveyance which corresponds to one revolution of the conveying roller as a cycle as shown in . As mentioned above this is easily recognized particularly at the time of monochrome image printing during which the achromatic image is printed by using ink K from the low density region. It should be noted that ink K indicates the aforementioned first black ink K1 or the second black ink K2 . Here suppose that the first black ink K1 is photo black ink for achieving a print with highly glossy image on glossy paper and that the second black ink K2 is matte black ink which is appropriate for matte paper having no glossy texture. In this case the first black ink K1 can be used for the above printing.

In view of the aforementioned problem the present inventors have recognized the fact that an influence on image quality due to the conveyance error on a printing medium depends on a length a print swath of the region printed in one scan of the printing head H in a direction in which a printing medium is conveyed. That is the present inventors have observed that the larger the print swath is the more the eccentricity derived unevenness is conspicuous. Conversely the present inventors have observed that the smaller the print swath is the less the eccentricity derived unevenness appears. In other words to narrow a nozzle use range involved in printing is to reduce the amount of conveyance of a printing medium in each scan. The reduction in the amount of conveyance allows the total amount of conveyance needed for performing multi pass printing to be small. Thus the accumulated amount of conveyance errors is made small in a case where the printing on the region of the printing medium is completed by for example multi pass printing. The following will further explain this point.

As mentioned above 768 nozzles per one color which may be involved in printing are arranged on the printing head H to allow printing with a density of 1200 dpi. Here it is supposed that using this printing head H the following process is repeated 12 times. Specifically in the process a printing medium is conveyed every one print scan by the width corresponding to 64 768 12 nozzles. That is it is supposed that 12 pass printing is performed in order to complete the printing of one image region of the printing medium by using the printing head H.

In this case it is considered that the conveyance error shown in is accumulated to correspond to 768 nozzles used for printing and thereby influences the appearance of each printing region of the printing medium. Moving accumulated error values obtained by calculating the accumulated error value for 768 nozzles by successively shifting 64 nozzles. The moving accumulated error values are shown as a curve of an accumulated error for N in . A cycle shown with this curve indicates a cycle of eccentricity derived unevenness. It is considered that a magnitude of amplitude in the cycle corresponds to a degree of eccentricity derived unevenness.

This eccentricity derived unevenness can be corrected by narrowing the nozzle use range involved in printing to shorten the print swath in one scan. To narrow the nozzle use range involved in printing to shorten the print swath in one scan is to reduce the amount of conveyance of a printing medium in each scan. As for the conveying roller M to narrow the above range is to reduce a rotation angle for each scan.

Each of shows a case where the rotation angle of the conveying roller M is smaller than the cases respectively in . As is obvious from although deviation of the rotation central axis Ec of the conveying roller M causes a difference in length arc length PL in a circumferential direction corresponding to the angle the difference is smaller than that in the case in each of . Thus in a case where the printing on the region of the printing medium is completed by for example multi pass printing the reduction in the amount of conveyance allows the total amount of conveyance needed for performing multi pass printing to be small and the accumulated amount of conveyance errors to be small.

As one example a case where the nozzle use range involved in printing is narrowed as described below will be discussed. Specifically out of the maximum printable swath corresponding to the range in which the 768 nozzles included in the printing head H are arranged the nozzle use range involved in printing is narrowed to correspond to 192 768 4 nozzles so that the printing range is made to be of the above maximum printable swath. Also in this case the conveyance error shown in is accumulated to correspond to the 192 nozzles in the same way as that mentioned above to obtain moving accumulated error values. In this case each accumulated error value for the 192 nozzles is calculated by successively shifting 16 192 12 nozzles thereby a characteristic as shown by accumulated error for N in is obtained. It can be understood from these results that the nozzle amplitude is reduced to about and that the degree of eccentricity derived unevenness is accordingly reduced in a case where the nozzle use range is narrowed to correspond to 192 nozzles as compared with a case where all of 768 nozzles are used. This result corresponds to a difference in appearance between eccentricity derived unevenness appearing on an image actually printed by using 768 nozzles and eccentricity derived unevenness on an image printed by using 192 nozzles.

As mentioned above the eccentricity derived unevenness is likely to be visible particularly at the time when print is made for a monochrome image by using ink K dominantly. The present invention aims to obtain a printed image in which unevenness is appropriately suppressed according to the number of ink colors to be used at the time of printing an image.

In this embodiment it is possible to select a monochrome image printing mode a mode for particularly printing an achromatic image . According to the mode selection the nozzle use range involved in printing is narrowed or the amount of conveyance of the printing medium is reduced.

An explanation will be given of a structure for receiving selection settings of various types to be made by a user at the time of printing.

D indicates a portion where one of color image printing modes and monochrome image printing mode is selected. When a checkbox D of gray scale printing is checked printing printing of an achromatic image in this embodiment is carried out in the monochrome image printing mode. When the checkbox is not checked printing is carried out in the color printing mode. Moreover even when an inputted image is a color image the image can be outputted as a monochrome image if the checkbox D labeled gray scale printing is checked.

Note that here the UI screen displayed on a monitor of the host apparatus J is used to perform various settings. However the present invention is not limited to the UI screen and a control section for example provided to the printing apparatus may be used.

In addition in this embodiment a different color conversion LUT is used for each of the following two cases where the same achromatic image or the same achromatic image portion is printed. Specifically the color image printing mode is selected in one of the two cases and the monochrome image printing mode is selected in the other of the two cases.

Each of shows a color conversion LUT used in the subsequent process J for expressing a gray line. shows a color conversion LUT of a case where the color image printing mode is selected. shows a color conversion LUT of a case where the monochrome image printing mode is selected. In each of shows the contents of the conventional color conversion look up table LUT in a case of using six colors K C M Y Lm and Lc . In the horizontal axis indicates a range of colors from white W represented by R G B 0 0 0 to black K represented by R G B 255 255 255 . Moreover the vertical axis corresponds to a density signal of each color outputted during the subsequent process J. Then in the color conversion LUT shown in inks of seven colors of Gray Lc Lm C M Y and K K1 or K2 are appropriately selected and used for the respective density regions. Specifically Gray Lc Lm and Y are mainly used in the low density region C M and Y are mainly used in the intermediate density region and K is mainly used in the high density region. On the other hand in the color conversion LUT shown in inks of five colors of Gray Lc Lm Y and K K1 or K2 are appropriately selected and used for the respective density regions. More specifically Gray is dominantly used from the low density region to the high density region. By using Gray dominantly it is possible to suppress granular impression and color deviation. In contrast since Lc Lm and Y are used only for toning the amounts of these colors to be used are limited to be minute in any region from the low density region to the high density region. Use of K begins from the intermediate density region and more amount of K is used as the printing proceeds from the intermediate density region to the high density region. This makes it possible to represent the gray scale having less granular impression and less color deviation.

In this embodiment the narrowing restriction in the nozzle use range involved in printing or the reduction in the amount of conveyance of a printing medium is carried out according to the mode selection. Moreover in this embodiment in addition to the mode selection the following conditions are used as the conditions for determining nozzles to be used.

A first condition is that a nozzle group used at the time when the nozzle use range is restricted is not fixed. The reason thereof is described below.

When printing is continued with the restricted number of used nozzles a large difference occurs in the number of accumulated ejection operations between the nozzles used in the relevant printing and the other nozzles. It is recognized that a state of ink ejection from the nozzles varies depending on whether the number of accumulated ejection operations is large or small. It is considered that changes in the ink ejection amount and in an ink ejection speed occur mainly because of the deterioration in durability of an ejection mechanism element and the like for generating energy used in the ink ejection provided to the nozzles as the accumulated number of ejection operations increases.

In this embodiment whether all of the nozzles are used in printing or some of the nozzles are used is determined according to the mode selection as mentioned above. Here it is considered that an image printed with one print scan would appear as the image shown in when the image is printed in the following manner. Specifically first a nozzle use range is narrowed and then the printing is continued by using a nozzle group of which the number of nozzles is restricted as shown in . Thereafter a uniform image is printed by use of all of the nozzles as shown in . The reason for the appearance of the printed image is as follows. Specifically the number of accumulated ejection operations of 192 nozzles placed on the upper end side thereof in is larger than those of the other nozzles and thereby durability is deteriorated to reduce the amount of ink ejection. As a result only the portion where printing is made by using the relevant 192 nozzles appears to be pale. When such a density difference occurs on the printed image in one scan a so called band unevenness appears on an image finally completed.

Accordingly this embodiment is designed to obtain the equal number of accumulated ejection operations in all of nozzles as much as possible without fixing the range of nozzles to be used at the time of the relevant printing in the mode in which print is made with the restricted nozzle use range.

Moreover this embodiment is designed to appropriately narrow the nozzle use range when print is made on the front portion or on the rear portion of the printing medium.

One reason for narrowing restricting the nozzle use range in the front portion and in the rear portion is how the platen M provided between the conveying roller M and the paper discharging roller M is structured.

The printing apparatus of this embodiment provides an outputted product of the same quality as that of silver salt photograph. The apparatus is structured as a printing apparatus which is capable of printing an image without margins with a style of printing so called marginless printing. 

HN indicates a nozzle column provided to the printing head H and shows only one nozzle column corresponding to one color for simplicity. The platen M has an opening and holds the printing medium passing through the printing region where the nozzle column HN is scanned. In the opening a plurality of ribs P for holding the printing medium are arranged as standing and an ink absorbing member P is provided for absorbing ink ejected outside the front and rear edges as well as outside the side edge of the printing medium at the time of marginless printing.

In the opening of the platen M ribs P are arranged along the end portion of the upstream side in the conveyance direction and along the end portion of the downstream side. The distance between one of the ribs placed in the end portion of the upstream and the corresponding rib placed in the end portion of the downstream is supposed to be larger than a length corresponding to the maximum number of nozzles 768 nozzles in this embodiment used at the time when the print is made on the central portion of the printing medium. This prevents the ribs from being smudged by ink ejected outside the right and left side edges of the printing medium.

Moreover the ribs P are also arranged at the substantially central portion of the opening in the conveyance direction of the printing medium to support the printing medium. The ribs P arranged in the central portion are provided in a way that these ribs P would not be smudged by ink ejected outside the front and rear edges and outside the right and left side edges of the printing medium at the time of marginless printing. Such a rib arrangement and the maximum number of nozzles involved in printing on the front and rear portions of the printing medium are appropriately determined in consideration of the mutual relationship therebetween.

Another reason for restricting the nozzle use range in printing the front and rear portions of the printing medium is that the printing medium is not concurrently supported by both of the conveying roller M and the paper discharging roller M at the time when print is made on the front portion or on the rear portion of the printing medium. In a state in which the printing medium is supported by only one of the rollers flatness of the printing medium is not ensured and a distance hereinafter referred to as a head to paper distance between the end portion the front portion or the rear portion which is not supported and the printing head varies more or less. Thereby the resultant state is unstable. In the central portion print scan is performed while ink is ejected at a timing corresponding to a predetermined head to paper distance maintained on the platen with the front and the back rollers. Thereby ink droplets ejected at an appropriate timing form dots on the printing medium and then the dots are arranged at an appropriate pitch. Thus an image is formed. In contrast in the front and the rear portions due to the variable head to paper distance in the print swath thereof the dot positions on the printing medium are also variable if the variation in the head to paper distance is large. This causes adverse effects on a resultant image such as white lines black lines or granular impression.

For this reason in this embodiment the print swath of the printing head that is nozzle use range at the time when print is made is suppressed when print is made on the front and rear portions and an amount of conveyance of the printing medium is reduced accordingly. This makes it possible to narrow the print swath of the printing head and to suppress the variations in the head to paper distance in the print swath.

On the printing element substrate H formed are nozzle columns H H H H and H to which inks of gray light cyan black black and light magenta are respectively supplied and from which inks of these colors are respectively ejected. On the other printing element substrate H formed are nozzle columns H H H H and H to which inks of cyan red green magenta and yellow are respectively supplied and from which inks of these colors are respectively ejected. Each nozzle column is composed of 768 nozzles arranged at an interval of 1200 dpi in a direction in which the printing medium is conveyed and causes ink droplets of approximately two picoliter to be ejected. An opening area of each nozzle ejection port is set at approximately 100 square m.

In the mode where print is made with the restricted narrowed nozzle use range as shown in the left portion of the entire range M of each nozzle column that is 768 nozzles are equally divided into four groups and each of the divided regions shown by marks Em to Em from the downstream side in the conveyance direction that is from the front end side of the printing medium are used for printing on the central portion. Each of the nozzle regions Em to Em is composed of continuously arranged 192 nozzles. In this embodiment the divided region to be used for printing on the central portion is not fixed and the regions Em to Em are appropriately switched to be used. For printing on the front and rear portions used is a region Em including 192 nozzles continuously arranged towards the inside from a position biased inward by 64 nozzles from the lowermost downstream end portion. Incidentally in this embodiment the relevant divided region including 192 nozzles is used for printing on the front and rear portions and on the central portion of the printing medium. However the number of nozzles to be used for printing on the front and rear portions may be smaller than that used for printing on the central portion.

In the mode where print is made without restricting narrowing nozzle use range the entire range M of each nozzle column that is 768 nozzles are used for printing on the central portion of the printing medium. However in a case of printing on the front and rear portions used is a region Ecf including 256 nozzles positioned at the downstream side the paper discharging roller side in the conveyance direction of the printing medium as shown in the right portion of .

An explanation will be given of a specific example of a printing operation carried out on the basis of the aforementioned nozzle use range.

In this example it is supposed that in a case where the user checks a checkbox D shown in to select monochrome image printing gray scale printing mode print is made on the entire surface of the printing medium including the central portion of the printing medium with the restricted narrowed nozzle use range. The printing mode used here is hereinafter referred to as entire surface nozzle restriction printing or a restricted printing mode . In other cases it is determined that print is made on at least the central portion of the printing medium without restricting narrowing the nozzle use range. This printing mode is hereinafter referred to as normal printing or a non restriction printing mode . 

In a case where it is determined in step S that the monochrome image printing mode is not selected the operation proceeds to step S to select a color conversion LUT for color image printing. Thereby a color conversion process is carried out in step S on the basis of the selected color conversion LUT. In this case even when an image to be printed is an achromatic image or has an image portion the LUT shown in is applied to the relevant image or image portion.

On the other hand in a case where it is determined in step S that the monochrome image printing mode is selected the operation proceeds to step S to select a color conversion LUT for monochrome image printing. Thereby a color conversion process is carried out in step S on the basis of the selected color conversion LUT. In this case even when an image to be printed is a color image or has a color image portion the LUT shown in is applied to the relevant image or image portion.

In step S data in which color conversion has been carried out as described above undergoes a process required for creating print data. The above procedure is executed by a host apparatus J which provides a printing apparatus J with the created print data as well as the setting information shown in .

In this control procedure the printing apparatus J first recognizes whether the selected mode is a monochrome image printing mode step S .

In a case where it is determined in step S that the selected mode is not a monochrome image printing mode the printing apparatus J executes normal printing. In this example in a case of performing normal printing it is determined that printing eight pass printing is performed by scanning eight times by using 768 nozzles of each nozzle column for printing on the central portion of the printing medium. In a case of printing on the front and rear portions it is determined that eight pass printing is performed by using the region Ecf including 256 nozzles shown in the right portion of . It should be noted that eight pass printing means that the print scan is performed eight times on one image region of the printing medium at the time of multi pass printing. Four pass printing has been explained with reference to and the same explanation holds true for eight pass printing. In other word nozzles 768 nozzles or 256 nozzles to be used are divided into eight nozzle groups and such a mask pattern that a complementary relationship is kept among these eight nozzle groups is applied to each of these nozzle groups in the similar manner to that in the above description to perform scanning. Then in each scan the printing medium may be conveyed by a length corresponding to the length of the divided region.

In the normal printing suitable ejection data corresponding to the nozzle range to be used for printing on the front portion the central portion and the rear portion of the printing medium is created step S . Thereby a printing operation for one page of printing medium is executed step S . Then the printing apparatus J determines whether a print job is completed after every print on one page step S . When there is data on a next page in the print job the operation returns to step S to repeat the series of aforementioned steps. When data on a next page is not present this process is completed.

An operation performed at the time of normal printing will be explained in more detailed by using and .

For printing on the front portion of the printing medium 256 nozzles positioned at the downstream side in the conveyance direction of the printing medium are used as shown in . The same holds true for printing on the rear portion . The nozzles to be used are thus restricted at the time print is made on the front and rear portions of the printing medium. Thereby ink is prevented from being ejected on the ribs P. For printing on the central portion of the printing medium 768 nozzles of the entire range M which can be involved in printing are used as shown in . Also in this case the ribs P are appropriately arranged that is the ribs are not arranged in the positions corresponding to for example side edges of a standard size printing medium . Thus ink is not ejected on the ribs P.

As shown in for printing on the front portion at the beginning the left side portion in print is made in such a manner that print scan is carried out by using 256 nozzles positioned at the downstream side in the conveyance direction while conveyance corresponding to 32 nozzles 256 8 between the print scans is repeated. Then the number of nozzles to be used is gradually increased and the amount of conveyance is changed accordingly. After printing on the front portion is completed the position of printing is moved to the central portion print is made in such a manner that a series of scanning by using all of 768 nozzles and conveyance corresponding to 96 768 8 is repeated.

As shown in during the time when the position of printing is being moved to the rear portion the print scan is performed in such a manner that the nozzle use range is gradually narrowed to make a print on the rear portion from a state in the left side portion of in which print has been made on the central portion while the printing medium is conveyed by an amount appropriate for each scan. Then when the position of printing reaches the rear portion that is after the rear edge of the printing medium is beyond the conveying roller M print is made in such a manner that the print scan is carried out by using 256 nozzles at the downstream side in the conveyance direction while conveyance which corresponds to 32 nozzles between the print scans is repeated.

The timing at which the nozzle restriction for the rear portion is started can be determined on the basis of the timing at which the PE sensor E detects the rear edge of the printing medium. In other words on the basis of this timing detected by the PE sensor E the printing apparatus recognizes the time a rear edge separation time when the rear edge of the printing medium separates from a position where the printing medium is held between the conveying roller M and the pinch roller M. Then printing on the rear portion can be started from print scan at the rear edge separation time shown in . This makes it possible to suppress occurrence of unevenness due to an impact which tends to occur at the instant when the printing medium is released from the restraint by the conveying roller M and the pinch roller M.

Referring back to when the monochrome image printing mode is recognized in step S the entire surface nozzle restriction printing is executed. In this example in a case where the entire surface nozzle restriction printing is executed it is determined that printing 12 pass printing is performed by scanning 12 times by using 192 continuously arranged nozzles for printing on the front and rear portions and on the central portion of the printing medium. Here for printing on the front and rear portions used is the area Em including 192 continuously arranged nozzles shown in the left portion of . However for printing on the central portion the region to be used is not fixed and any one of the regions Em to Em is used for each page included in a print job. It should be noted that 12 pass printing means that the print scan scanning is performed 12 times on one image region of the printing medium at the time of multi pass printing. Specifically in this case nozzles 192 nozzles to be used are divided into 12 nozzle groups and the similar mask pattern as that mentioned above is applied to each of these nozzle groups to perform print scan while the conveyance of the printing medium which corresponds to the length of the relevant divided region between the print scans is carried out.

In a case of the entire surface nozzle restriction printing first in step S a page counter for counting the number of paper sheets on which print is made according to the print job is incremented by 1 . Then in step S a region involved in printing on the central portion of the printing medium of the relevant page is set on the basis of the count value. For example in a case of 4N th page N is a natural number the region Em positioned at the lowermost downstream side in the conveyance direction can be used. For the 4N 1 th page the region Em positioned at the second region from the lowermost downstream side in the conveyance direction can be used. For 4N 2 th page the region Em can be used. Moreover for a 4N 3 th page the region Em can be used.

Next suitable ejection data corresponding to the nozzle range to be used for printing on the front portion the central portion and the rear portion of the printing medium is created step S and a printing operation for one page of printing medium is executed step S . Then the printing apparatus determines whether a print job is completed after every print on one page step S . When there is data on a next page in the print job the operation returns to step S to repeat the series of aforementioned steps. When data on a next page is not present this process is completed.

An operation performed at the time of the entire surface nozzle restriction printing will be explained in more detail by using and .

For printing on the front and rear portions used are 192 nozzles which are included in the region Em and which are biased inward by 64 nozzles from the lowermost downstream end portion in the conveyance direction of the recording medium as shown in each of . Moreover for printing on the central portion of the printing medium the regions Em to Em are switched for every page to be used as shown in . In these cases no ink is ejected on the ribs P as in the case of normal printing.

Note that show a case where print is made on the 4N th page and the nozzle region which is used for printing on the central portion of the recording medium is set to be Em. Similarly show a case where print is made on the 4N 1 th page and the nozzle region which is used for printing on the central portion of the recording medium is set to be Em. show a case where print is made on the 4N 2 th page and the nozzle region which is used for printing on the central portion of the recording medium is set to be Em. show a case where print is made on the 4N 3 th page and the nozzle region which is used for printing on the central portion of the recording medium is set to be Em.

As shown in these figures when printing on the front and rear portions print is made in such a manner that the print scan is performed on any one of the pages by using 192 nozzles positioned at the downstream side in the conveyance direction while conveyance which corresponds to 16 nozzles 192 12 between the print scans is repeated. Moreover for printing on the central portion print is made in such a manner that the print scan is performed by using 192 nozzles positioned in a set region out of the regions Em to Em while conveyance which corresponds to 16 nozzles between the print scans is repeated. At the time when a position of printing is moved from the front portion to the central portion print is made while the employed nozzle group is shifted from that of the region Em to that of the set region. At the time when a position of printing is moved from the central portion to the rear portion print is made while the employed nozzle group is shifted from that of the set region to that of the region Em . Incidentally the timing at which the nozzle restriction for the rear portion is started is determined in the same way as that mentioned above.

According to the aforementioned structure the nozzle use range involved in printing is narrowed or the amount of conveyance of the printing medium is reduced to thereby perform printing in the monochrome image printing mode. Accordingly it is possible to suppress the eccentricity derived unevenness which is likely to be visible particularly on a monochrome image.

As is clear from when the entire surface nozzle restriction printing was not performed eccentricity derived unevenness is recognized in the image portions respectively having various densities. In contrast as is clear from when the entire surface nozzle restriction printing was performed little eccentricity derived unevenness is visible in any of the image portions with any density.

In the above example the nozzle use region in the entire surface nozzle restriction printing is not fixed but is switched from one to another for every page. Thus it is possible to reduce variation in the number of nozzle ejection operations.

Additionally it is possible to count pages for every print job. However it is preferable that a counter region is formed in an involatile memory such as EEPROM and the like to accumulatively manage the count value and that the contents of the accumulated count value is held even when the apparatus is powered off. Accordingly regardless of the number of paper sheets on which print is made and which is designated by each of various print jobs present at various timings in the course of time it is made possible to achieve the substantially equal use of the regions Em to Em for printing on the central portion of the printing medium. In other words it is possible to reduce variation in the number of nozzle ejection operations more effectively.

Although the above description has been provided for the regions Em to Em involved in printing of the central portion as being shifted for every page the regions may be shifted for every multiple pages. Moreover the switching of the restricted positions for nozzle use may be controlled with a dot count.

In the aforementioned control procedure the regions Em to Em which are involved in printing on the central portion are not always switched for every page. Instead in a case where a dot count value of even one of the colors exceeds the threshold value the page count value is increased to switch the regions. Thus by using the dot count value it is made possible to reduce variation in the number of accumulated ejection operations even in a case where print is made with a different duty for every page.

Moreover in the above explanation only the number of paper sheets on which print is made by monochrome image printing is supposed to be counted. However an effect can be expected by counting the number of paper sheets on which print is made in various printing modes including normal printing. The reason thereof is that such counting is also considered to make it possible to generally reduce concentration or bias in the nozzles to be used for printing a monochrome image. Moreover the number of times when a print job is received may be counted instead of the number of paper sheets to be printed. In this case although the various numbers of paper sheets to be printed are considered to be included in each print job the numbers of accumulated ejection operations are substantially equalized as numerous print jobs are processed over a long period of time. Thus it is possible to generally reduce bias in the nozzles to be used.

Moreover for example in a case where multiple printing regions each with a space a non printing region interposed in between are present in one page in the conveyance direction it is possible to switch the nozzle use regions for every printing region instead of switching the nozzle use regions for every page. In other words such a form that the nozzle use regions are switched in one page may be used. In this case the aforementioned dot count may be used in combination.

Furthermore the form of switching of nozzle use ranges is not limited to the sequential switching in which the nozzle use regions are switched in a regular order of Em Em Em and Em. The first region to be used may be that other than Em. Alternatively for example it is possible to use a form of switching in which one of the nozzle use regions Em to Em is randomly selected.

In addition it is possible to appropriately set the nozzle range to be used for printing on the front and rear portions to be a range which does not cause such inconvenience that ink is ejected onto the ribs. Specifically since arrangement positions of the ribs P and the presence or absence of the ribs may be determined in various ways it is possible to appropriately determine the nozzle range to be used for printing on the front and rear portions accordingly. Then as in the aforementioned embodiment the nozzle range to be used for printing on the front and rear portions may be determined separately from the nozzle range to be used for printing on the central portion. Alternatively the nozzle range can be used in a state where any one of Em to Em to be used for printing on the central portion is fixed or in which the Em to Em are switched. Moreover for printing on one sheet of printing medium the same range a block may be used for printing both on the front and rear portions and on the central portion. Furthermore different ranges may be used for printing respectively on the front portion and on the rear portion and the numbers of nozzles to be used each of sizes of continuously arranged ranges may be different from one another.

Additionally since the eccentricity derived unevenness is markedly conspicuous at the time of printing the achromatic monochrome image in which ink K is used dominantly the entire surface nozzle restriction printing is determined to be executed in a case of the gray scale printing in the above embodiment. However even in a case of printing the monochrome image by using inks of other colors dominantly or in a case of printing a slightly colored monochrome image a sepia photograph and the like the eccentricity derived unevenness occurs with a greater or lesser degree of visibility. Generally in a case of printing such an image that the coverage of the printing medium is low due to the small number of ink colors to be used the eccentricity derived unevenness may possibly occur with a greater or lesser degree of visibility. Accordingly the entire surface nozzle restriction printing may be carried out not only in a case of performing the gray scale printing in which ink K is used dominantly but also in these printing modes by recognizing them.

In the aforementioned example the entire surface nozzle restriction printing is supposed to be uniformly carried out when the achromatic monochrome image printing gray scale printing mode is selected. However even when the gray scale printing mode is selected the entire surface nozzle restriction printing may not be carried out depending on the condition for example a type of printing medium user setting and the like. . Consequently in this modification example 1 it is made possible to select a gray scale printing in which the entire surface nozzle restriction printing is not employed in addition to a gray scale printing in which the entire surface nozzle restriction printing is employed.

A high level image quality is demanded for printing media high quality glossy paper low priced glossy paper and the like. to be mainly used for printing a photographic image. On the other hand image quality of such a high level is not required for plain paper. Accordingly the required level of image quality is different depending on the type of printing medium. Thus an allowable range for eccentricity derived unevenness can be made different in accordance with the type of printing medium. Specifically the allowable range for eccentricity derived unevenness can increased for plain paper as compared to glossy paper and the like.

Consequently in this example it is made possible to select according to the type of printing medium whether or not to perform the entire surface nozzle restriction printing used as measures against the eccentricity derived unevenness. More specifically the entire surface nozzle restriction printing is set in a case where the checkbox D of gray scale printing on the UI screen in is checked and high quality glossy paper or low priced glossy paper is selected as the type of paper shown in D. That is in a case where print is made on high quality glossy paper and on low priced glossy paper the nozzles to be used are restricted to thereby reduce the eccentricity derived unevenness as much as possible. On the other hand in a case where the checkbox D of gray scale printing is checked and plain paper is selected as the type of paper the normal printing is set instead of the entire surface nozzle restriction printing. That is in a case of printing on the plain paper the nozzle restriction is not performed and all of the nozzles are used. Accordingly print is made with the printing speed being prioritized. Note that the normal printing is set in a case where the checkbox D of gray scale printing on the UI screen in is not checked. Table 1 provides a summary of the aforementioned matters.

The explanation will be given of the structure in which the user can freely select any one of the gray scale printing mode in which the entire surface nozzle restriction printing is employed and the gray scale printing mode in which the entire surface nozzle restriction printing is not used.

In order to implement this structure a checkbox X for executing the entire surface nozzle restriction printing is provided to the UI screen in . The checkbox X is structured so that the checkbox X is selectable only when the checkbox D of gray scale printing is checked. Specifically when the checkbox D of gray scale printing is not checked the checkbox X is grayed out and cannot be selected. In contrast in a case where the checkbox D of gray scale printing is checked and where the checkbox X is also checked the entire surface nozzle restriction printing is executed. In other words the entire surface nozzle restriction printing can be executed regardless of the type of printing medium when the user so wishes. This structure makes it possible to expand a range of selection that the user can make and meet a wide spectrum of user needs.

In the aforementioned first embodiment for restricting the nozzles to be used in the restriction printing mode the nozzle groups Em to Em which are used in printing the central portion of the printing medium are not fixed. However it is not the essential matter of the present invention to not fix the nozzle groups. In the present invention it suffices that print can be made over the entire printing region with the narrowed nozzle use range and the nozzle group involved in printing on the central portion may be fixed.

Consequently the second embodiment is characterized in fixing the nozzle groups used for printing on the central portion in the restriction printing mode. Incidentally the other points are the same as those explained in the first embodiment and the explanation thereof will be omitted herein.

The second embodiment will be explained below by using A and B. As mentioned above each of nozzle groups Em and Em shown in is composed of continuously arranged 192 nozzles and the nozzles groups Em and Em are used in the restriction printing mode in this embodiment. In other words the nozzle group to be used is fixed to be Em in printing on the central portion and the nozzle group Em is used in printing on the front and rear portions. More specifically at the time when a position of printing is moved from the front portion to the central portion the nozzle use range is changed as illustrated in and the nozzle group Em is used in printing on the front portion. Next the nozzle use range is fixed to be Em in printing on the central portion and print is made by using the nozzle group Em. In this embodiment even when a page of a printing medium is changed the nozzle range to be used in printing on the central portion is fixed to be Em. Finally at the time when a position of printing is moved from the central portion to the rear portion the nozzle use range is changed as illustrated in and the nozzle Em is used in printing on the rear portion.

As mentioned above according to this embodiment unlike the first embodiment the nozzle use range is not changed. Thereby the control thereof can be simplified. Moreover when the nozzles to be used are changed a density difference is sometimes caused by a difference in ejection characteristics and in dot landing accuracy of ink droplets of the respective nozzles. However in this embodiment such a drawback does not occur and thereby it is made possible to prevent the density difference which would otherwise occur by changing the nozzles to be used.

Note that the nozzle group involved in printing on the central portion may not be Em. In this embodiment it suffices that the nozzle group involved in printing on the central portion be fixed to any group. For example a configuration may be such that only any one of Em to Em is used.

Furthermore in this embodiment the same number of nozzles are used for printing on the central portion and for printing on the front and rear portions. However the number of nozzles used for printing on the front and rear portions may be less than the number of nozzles used for printing on the central portion. By reducing the number of nozzles used for printing on the front and rear portions and by decreasing the amount of conveyance of the printing medium the conveyance error is reduced in printing on the front and rear portions. Thereby image quality on the front and rear portions can be improved.

The gist of the present invention is that the narrowing the nozzle use range and the reduction in the amount of conveyance is carried out in the entire printing region in order to suppress unevenness occurring in the printed image due to the errors in conveying the printing medium. Accordingly although explanation has been provided in each of the aforementioned embodiments for the printing apparatus capable of achieving marginless printing this is not essential for the present invention. Moreover although in the aforementioned embodiments illustrated are the use of the roller as the conveyance mechanism and periodic variations in the amount of conveyance due to the eccentricity of the conveying roller the present invention is adaptable regardless of the structure of the conveyance mechanism and of the presence or absence of the periodicity of variations in the amount of conveyance. This is because the accumulated amount of conveyance errors is reduced by narrowing the nozzle use range and by reducing the amount of conveyance of the printing medium.

Moreover the number of ink colors the number of nozzles printing elements the narrowing ratio for the nozzle use range the reduction ratio for the amount of conveyance of the printing medium the number of passes for the multi pass printing a type of employed mask patterns therefor and the like are herein shown merely as examples. Hence it is needless to say that other conditions can be employed as appropriate.

While the present invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it is to be understood that the invention is not limited to the disclosed exemplary embodiments. The scope of the following claims is to be accorded the broadest interpretation so as to encompass all such modifications and equivalent structures and functions.

This application claims the benefit of Japanese Patent Application No. 2006 147290 filed May 26 2006 which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

