---

title: Methods and systems for matching resource requests with cloud computing environments
abstract: A matching system can provide matching services to users of cloud computing environments. The matching system can receive user requests for sets of services. Once received, the matching system can collect information about available cloud appliances. The matching system can match the cloud appliances with the user requested services and provide the user with information related to available cloud appliances that meet the user's request.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08402139&OS=08402139&RS=08402139
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 08402139
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100226
---
This invention relates generally to products and services more particularly to systems and methods for cloud computing related services and products.

The advent of cloud based computing architectures has opened new possibilities for the rapid and scalable deployment of virtual Web stores media outlets and other on line sites or services. In general a cloud based architecture deploys a set of hosted resources such as processors operating systems software and other components that can be combined or strung together to form virtual machines. A user or customer can request the instantiation of a virtual machine or set of machines from those resources from a central server or management system to perform intended tasks or applications.

In cases however a network administrator may wish to set up a set of software appliances specifically in a network cloud environment. Software appliances generally involve the encapsulation of a pre defined application or applications with a reduced version of an operating system OS such as the Linux operating system. Software appliances in one regard thereby represent a relatively compact ready to install application solution and can be distributed via media such as CD ROM discs or downloaded for installation. Software appliances can be distributed and installed in a variety of environments including stand alone and networked environments. A population of software appliances can be managed on a network from a centralized monitor or host including to track the software provisioning user authorizations execution states and other attributes of the deployed appliances.

For example a user may wish to set up and instantiate a virtual server from the cloud to create a storefront to market products or services on a temporary basis. The user can lease or subscribe to the set of resources needed to build and run the set of instantiated virtual machines on a comparatively short term basis such as hours or days for their intended application.

In the context of a set of virtual or cloud appliances that are instantiated in a cloud environment issues in the configuration and deployment of the appliances can arise. For instance typically users request resources for a given purpose from a cloud provider and the cloud provider then transparently instantiates the appropriate virtual appliances in various invisible configurations. However users may want to better understand and receive information regarding the instantiated virtual appliances understand all of the available virtual appliance configurations and or how they can or should transfer previously purchased licenses or subscriptions to the cloud.

For simplicity and illustrative purposes the principles of the present teachings are described by referring mainly to exemplary embodiments thereof. However one of ordinary skill in the art would readily recognize that the same principles are equally applicable to and can be implemented in all types of information and systems and that any such variations do not depart from the true spirit and scope of the present teachings. Moreover in the following detailed description references are made to the accompanying figures which illustrate specific embodiments. Electrical mechanical logical and structural changes may be made to the embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the present teachings. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present teachings is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents.

Embodiments of the present teachings relate to systems and methods for independently matching requested resources with cloud computing environments. More particularly embodiments relate to platforms and techniques in which a matching system can match requested resources to virtual appliances within cloud computing environments for users.

According to embodiments a matching system can be configured to provide matching services to users of cloud computing environments. In particular the matching system can be configured to receive a request to instantiate a set of services from a user. Once received the matching system can be configured to match the requested resources with available cloud appliances based on information collected by the matching system. The matching system can then provide the collected information about the matched available cloud appliances to the user.

According to embodiments the collected information can come from various sources including cloud provider catalogs. The requested set of services can include deployment recommendation information. Alternatively the requested set of services can correspond to a previously purchased license resource credit e.g. credit for SaaS consumption etc. or subscription. Likewise the matching system can be configured to compare the resource requirements of the previously purchased license resource credit or subscription to the resources of the available cloud appliances and then identify at least one combination of cloud appliances that meet the resource requirements of the previously purchased license or subscription. The previously purchased license resource credit or subscription can be for example an on premise license resource credit or subscription.

By providing matching services the matching system can enable the user to understand and review the various available cloud appliances that correspond to a requested set of resources. The matching system also can enable a user to understand and review the consequences of transferring their previously purchased licenses resource credits or subscriptions.

In embodiments the entire set of resource servers or other hardware or software resources used to support the cloud along with its instantiated virtual machines can be managed by a cloud management system . The cloud management system can comprise a dedicated or centralized server and or other software hardware and network tools that communicate via one or more networks such as the Internet or other public or private network with all sets of resource servers to manage the cloud and its operation. To instantiate a new set of virtual machines a user can transmit an instantiation request to the cloud management system for the particular type of virtual machine they wish to invoke for their intended application. A user can for instance make a request to instantiate a set of virtual machines configured for email messaging or other applications from the cloud . The request can be received and processed by the cloud management system which identifies the type of virtual machine process or other resource being requested. The cloud management system can then identify the collection of resources necessary to instantiate that machine or resource. In embodiments the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources can for example comprise virtual transaction servers used to support Web storefronts or other transaction sites.

In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify a variety of parameters defining the operation of the set of virtual machines to be invoked. The instantiation request for example can specify a defined period of time for which the instantiated machine or process is needed. The period of time can be for example an hour a day or other increment of time. In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify the instantiation of a set of virtual machines or processes on a task basis rather than for a predetermined amount of time. For instance a user could request resources until a software update is completed. The user s instantiation request can specify other parameters that define the configuration and operation of the set of virtual machines or other instantiated resources. For example the request can specify an amount of processing power or input output I O throughput the user wishes to be available to each instance of the virtual machine or other resource. In embodiments the requesting user can for instance specify a service level agreement SLA acceptable for their application. Other parameters and settings can be used. One skilled in the art will realize that the user s request can likewise include combinations of the foregoing exemplary parameters and others.

When the request to instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources has been received and the necessary resources to build that machine or resource have been identified the cloud management system can communicate with one or more set of resource servers to locate resources to supply the required components. The cloud management system can select providers from the diverse set of resource servers to assemble the various components needed to build the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. It may be noted that in some embodiments permanent storage such as hard disk arrays may not be included or located within the set of resource servers available to the cloud management system because the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources may be intended to operate on a purely transient or temporary basis. In embodiments other hardware software or other resources not strictly located or hosted in the cloud can be leveraged as needed. For example other software services that are provided outside of the cloud and hosted by third parties can be invoked by in cloud virtual machines. For further example other non cloud hardware and or storage services can be utilized as an extension to the cloud either on an on demand or subscribed or decided basis.

With the resource requirements identified the cloud management system can extract and build the set of virtual machines or other resources on a dynamic or on demand basis. For example one set of resource servers can respond to an instantiation request for a given quantity of processor cycles with an offer to deliver that computational power immediately and guaranteed for the next hour. A further set of resource servers can offer to immediately supply communication bandwidth for example on a guaranteed minimum or best efforts basis. In other embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources can be built on a batch basis or at a particular future time. For example a set of resource servers can respond to a request for instantiation at a programmed time with an offer to deliver the specified quantity of processor cycles within a specific amount of time such as the next 12 hours.

The cloud management system can select a group of servers in the set of resource servers that match or best match the instantiation request for each component needed to build the virtual machine or other resource. The cloud management system can then coordinate the integration of the completed group of servers from the set of resource servers to build and launch the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. The cloud management system can track the combined group of servers selected from the set of resource servers or other distributed resources that are dynamically or temporarily combined to produce and manage the requested virtual machine population or other resources.

In embodiments the cloud management system can generate a resource aggregation table that identifies the various sets of resource servers that will be used to supply the components of the virtual machine or process. The sets of resource servers can be identified by unique identifiers such as for instance Internet Protocol IP addresses or other addresses. The cloud management system can register the finalized group of servers in the set resource servers contributing to an instantiated machine or process.

The cloud management system can then set up and launch the initiation process for the virtual machines processes or other resources to be delivered from the cloud. The cloud management system can for instance transmit an instantiation command or instruction to the registered group of servers in set of resource servers . The cloud management system can receive a confirmation message back from each participating server in a set of resource servers indicating a status regarding the provisioning of their respective resources. Various sets of resource servers can confirm for example the availability of a dedicated amount of processor cycles amounts of electronic memory communications bandwidth or applications or other software prepared to be served.

As shown for example in the cloud management system can then instantiate one or more than one set of virtual machines or other processes based on the resources supplied by the registered set of resource servers . In embodiments the cloud management system can instantiate a given number for example 10 500 1000 or other number of virtual machines to be made available to users on a network such as the Internet or other public or private network. Each virtual machine can be assigned an instantiated machine ID that can be stored in the resource aggregation table or other record or image of the instantiated population. Additionally the cloud management system can store the duration of each virtual machine and the collection of resources utilized by the complete set of instantiated virtual machines .

In embodiments the cloud management system can further store track and manage a user s identity and associated set of rights or entitlements to software hardware and other resources. Each user that populates a set of virtual machines in the cloud can have specific rights and resources assigned and made available to them. The cloud management system can track and configure specific actions that a user can perform such as provision a set of virtual machines with software applications or other resources configure a set of virtual machines to desired specifications submit jobs to the set of virtual machines or other host manage other users of the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources and other privileges or actions. The cloud management system can further generate records of the usage of instantiated virtual machines to permit tracking billing and auditing of the services consumed by the user. In embodiments the cloud management system can for example meter the usage and or duration of the set of instantiated virtual machines to generate subscription billing records for a user that has launched those machines. Other billing or value arrangements are possible.

The cloud management system can configure each virtual machine to be made available to users of the one or more networks via a browser interface or other interface or mechanism. Each instantiated virtual machine can communicate with the cloud management system and the underlying registered set of resource servers via a standard Web application programming interface API or via other calls or interfaces. The set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with each other as well as other sites servers locations and resources available via the Internet or other public or private networks whether within a given cloud or between clouds.

It may be noted that while a browser interface or other front end can be used to view and operate the set of instantiated virtual machines from a client or terminal the processing memory communications storage and other hardware as well as software resources required to be combined to build the virtual machines or other resources are all hosted remotely in the cloud . In embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources may not depend on or require the user s own on premise hardware or other resources. In embodiments a user can therefore request and instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources on a purely off premise basis for instance to build and launch a virtual storefront or other application.

Because the cloud management system in one regard specifies builds operates and manages the set of instantiated virtual machines on a logical level the user can request and receive different sets of virtual machines and other resources on a real time or near real time basis without a need to specify or install any particular hardware. The user s set of instantiated virtual machines processes or other resources can be scaled up or down immediately or virtually immediately on an on demand basis if desired. In embodiments the various sets of resource servers that are accessed by the cloud management system to support a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes can change or be substituted over time. The type and operating characteristics of the set of instantiated virtual machines can nevertheless remain constant or virtually constant since instances are assembled from abstracted resources that can be selected and maintained from diverse sources based on uniform specifications.

In terms of network management of the set of instantiated virtual machines that have been successfully configured and instantiated the cloud management system can perform various network management tasks including security maintenance and metering for billing or subscription purposes. The cloud management system of a given cloud can for example install or terminate applications or appliances on individual machines. The cloud management system can match operating virtual machines to detect any virus or other rogue process on individual machines and for instance terminate the infected application or virtual machine. The cloud management system can likewise manage an entire set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources on a collective basis for instance to push or deliver a software upgrade to all active virtual machines. Other management processes are possible.

In embodiments more than one set of virtual machines can be instantiated in a given cloud at the same overlapping or successive times. The cloud management system can in such implementations build launch and manage multiple sets of virtual machines based on the same or different underlying set of resource servers with populations of different sets of instantiated virtual machines such as may be requested by different users. The cloud management system can institute and enforce security protocols in a cloud hosting multiple sets of virtual machines. Each of the individual sets of virtual machines can be hosted in a respective partition or sub cloud of the resources of the cloud . The cloud management system of a cloud can for example deploy services specific to isolated or defined sub clouds or isolate individual workloads processes within the cloud to a specific sub cloud. The subdivision of the cloud into distinct transient sub clouds or other sub components which have assured security and isolation features can assist in establishing a multiple user or multi tenant cloud arrangement. In a multiple user scenario each of the multiple users can use the cloud platform as a common utility while retaining the assurance that their information is secure from other users of the overall cloud system. In further embodiments sub clouds can nevertheless be configured to share resources if desired.

In embodiments and as also shown in the set of instantiated virtual machines generated in a first cloud can also interact with a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes generated in a second third or further cloud . The cloud management system of a first cloud can interface with the cloud management system of a second cloud to coordinate those domains and operate the clouds and or virtual machines or processes on a combined basis. The cloud management system of a given cloud can track and manage individual virtual machines or other resources instantiated in that cloud as well as the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources in other clouds.

In the foregoing and other embodiments the user making an instantiation request or otherwise accessing or utilizing the cloud network can be a person customer subscriber administrator corporation organization or other entity. In embodiments the user can be or include another virtual machine application or process. In further embodiments multiple users or entities can share the use of a set of virtual machines or other resources.

In embodiments one or more users and can utilize one or more of the clouds and to support computing processes of the user and . The computing processes can be any type of computing processes such as virtual machines software appliances software programs cloud appliances etc. For example the user can utilize the cloud to support cloud appliances and can utilize cloud to supporting cloud appliance . The users and can be any type of entity such as individual users corporations companies universities and the like that utilizes the clouds and to support computing processes. While will be described with reference to user one skilled in the art will realize that the processes and methods can be applied to any of the users and or any other users. Additionally while illustrates three users and one skilled in the art will realize that methods and processes can apply to any number of users.

In embodiments the clouds and can be any type of cloud computing environments such as the cloud computing environments described above in . As described above the clouds and can include any number of computing systems to support the cloud appliances and or in the cloud. The computing systems can be any type of computing systems capable of supporting cloud appliances and or such as servers laptops desktops and the like. The computing systems can include a number of hardware resources which are used to support cloud appliances and or in the clouds and such as processors memory network hardware and bandwidth storage devices etc. Additionally the clouds and can include cloud management systems and respectively. The cloud management systems and can be supported by the computing resources of the clouds and respectively.

In embodiments as shown cloud appliances as a specific type of virtual machine can be built and instantiated. In embodiments as shown a set of cloud appliances corresponding to computing processes and or can be built and instantiated at the request of user or an operator not shown via matching system . Each appliance in the set of cloud appliances and or can be provisioned with a set of applications such as media messaging or other applications or software as well as supporting operating system processing power and other resources. In embodiments each of the appliances in the set of cloud appliances and or can be provisioned or configured with the same set of applications and or other resources or in embodiments can be provisioned or configured with different applications and or other resources. Appliance state data can contain data relating to the configuration state execution state input output state or other state of any one or more of the appliances in set of cloud appliances and or .

In embodiments the cloud and or can be operated and controlled by any number of entities. For example the cloud and or the cloud can be owned and or operated by a cloud vendor such as Amazon Inc. in order to provide the services of the the cloud and or the cloud to subscribers and customers. Likewise for example the cloud and or the cloud can be owned and or operated by one or more of the users and and the resources of the the cloud and or the cloud can be used by the entity internally to support various computing processes. As such in either case the cloud and the cloud can be configured to include hardware described above and software resources to support computing processes e.g. cloud appliances. For example if the cloud and or the cloud is operated by a cloud vendor the software resources can include operating systems such as a distribution of Linux provided by Red Hat Corporation and various application programs requested or typically desired by subscribers such as middleware applications web hosting applications electronic mail email applications and the like. Likewise for example if the cloud and or the cloud is operated by an entity for internal use the software resources can include software resources required to support the specific internal uses. For instance the cloud can be utilized by a corporation to perform simulations on a product and the software resources can include operating systems and application programs to run the simulations.

In embodiments the one or more networks can be or include the Internet or other public or private networks and can be or include wired wireless optical and other network connections. One skilled in the art will realize that the one or more networks can be any type of network utilizing any type of communication protocol to connect the computing systems.

In embodiments the matching system can be configured to match requests not shown for sets of resources to available cloud appliances for the one or more users and . The matching system can be configured to receive requests for services from users and and match the requests to available cloud appliances and or . The matching services provided by the matching system can also provide information corresponding to the matched available cloud appliances to the users and .

In embodiments the matching system can be operated by an entity that provides the matching services to the users and . The matching services can be provided to the users and at a fee. The matching system can be supported by one or more computing systems such as servers laptops desktops and the like. The matching system can include conventional components of a computing system such as such as processors memory network interfaces storage devices etc.

In embodiments to provide the matching services the matching system can be configured to include a matching module . The matching module can be configured to cooperate and communicate with the users and and to report or provide any gathered information to the users and . Likewise the matching module can be configured to cooperate and communicate with the clouds and to collect and to match available cloud appliances and or supported by the cloud and to user requested services. The matching module can be implemented as a software program that is configured to execute on the matching system . Likewise the matching module can be implemented as a portion of other software programs configured to execute on the matching system . In either case the matching module can be configured to include the necessary logic commands instructions and protocols to perform the processes described below. In any implementation the matching module can be written in any type of conventional programming language such as C C JAVA Perl and the like. Additionally the matching module can be stored in computer readable storage devices or media CD DVD hard drive portable storage memory etc. whether local to the matching system or remotely located.

In embodiments the matching module can be configured to provide an interface to receive a request for the matching services. The interface can be configured to provide the details and terms of the matching services matching services offered fee etc. . To achieve this the matching module can be configured to include the necessary logic commands instructions and protocols to generate and provide the interface such as command line or graphical user interfaces GUIs to receive the request for the matching services. The matching module can be configured to provide the interface to the user via the network utilizing any type of network protocol such as Internet protocol IP user datagram protocol UDP transmission control protocol TCP hypertext transfer protocol HTTP file transfer protocol FTP electronic mail email protocols or any other type of known or proprietary network protocol. Likewise the matching module can be configured to allow software programs executing on the computing systems of the user to provide requests. The matching module can be configured to include an application programming interface API to provide the interface that allows software programs of the user to call the matching module and provide the request.

In embodiments the request to instantiate a set of services can include recommended deployment options from for example a deployment decision assistant or other wizard type logic that can determine various resource configurations based on a user s current service information. The deployment options can include resource configurations that can be matched to various cloud appliance configurations. The requested set of services can include current service information proposed future growth etc. including for example the number of users of a set of applications the expected growth in users the current processing resources used etc. Alternatively the request can include information related to previously purchased licenses resource credits or subscriptions for example an on premise socket based license of a vendor application combination for a given number of users e.g. Adobe Acrobat etc.

In embodiments the matching system can communicate with multiple repositories or databases only one database shown . Database can include a set of aggregated or collected information records from multiple cloud provider catalogs not shown . The provider catalog information can include information about cloud appliances e.g. virtual machines operating systems and application combinations that are available as well as various business terms for the cloud appliances including support levels fees licensing constructs etc. Databases can also include mapping rules for the multiple clouds and which can be used to match available cloud appliances to the user s requested set of services.

The matching module can also store and maintain the set of information records in a database . The database can be stored in computer readable storage devices or media CD DVD hard drive portable storage memory etc. whether local to the matching system or remotely located. In embodiments to select information records the matching module can be configured to include the necessary logic commands instructions and protocols to search the set of information records and to retrieve the information records that match a user s services request. For instance the matching module can be configured to include the necessary queries and commands to communicate with and retrieve information from the repository .

In embodiments the matching module can be configured to match the available cloud appliances and to the user requested services. For example the matching module can compare the user s request with the collected information stored in databases . Parameters that can be compared include but are not limited to type and number of hardware resources to be utilized e.g. amount of processing cycles utilized amount of network bandwidth amount of storage space amount of memory etc. the type and number of software resources to be utilized the duration that the hardware and software resources need to be utilized the current fees for using the clouds and number and type of the cloud appliances and instantiated or available start time and duration of the cloud appliances and software programs utilized by the cloud appliances and and the like.

In embodiments in order to match user requested services with collected information about the available cloud appliances and the matching module can be configured to communicate with the cloud management systems and of the clouds and respectively. For example the matching module can be configured to communicate with the cloud management systems and in order to collect information about the usage of the clouds and . Likewise the matching module can be configured to communicate with the cloud appliances and to collect information about the details of the cloud appliances and .

In embodiments to communicate with the clouds and the matching module can be configured to establish a connection with the cloud and via the network . In particular the matching module can be configured to establish a connection with the cloud management systems and and or a connection to the cloud appliances and . To achieve this the matching module can be configured to include the necessary logic instructions commands and protocols to communicate with the cloud management systems and and or a connection to the cloud appliances and via network . For example the matching module can be configured to establish a connection using network protocols such as Internet protocol IP user datagram protocol UDP transmission control protocol TCP hypertext transfer protocol HTTP file transfer protocol FTP electronic mail email protocols or any other type of known or proprietary network protocol.

In embodiments the matching module can be configured to generate reports to provide the matched information to the user . Reports can include the following information in many different combinations for example information related to the user s request information corresponding to available cloud appliances and information corresponding to various matched available cloud appliance combinations. The report can provide and or present the above information in any format desired by the matching service or the user e.g. a list a table etc. Also as one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize the information provided in report can include as little or as much information as desired. The matching module can be configured to generate the report in any format to display the matched information to the user . To achieve this the matching module can include the necessary logic commands instructions and protocols to retrieve the collected information from the user record and organize the matched information into the report .

In embodiments the matching module can be configured to generate and provide the reports to the user when requested. The matching module can be configured to receive the request for the report via the interface . Likewise the matching module can be configured to provide the reports via the interface . Additionally the matching module can provide the reports to the user via the network utilizing any type of network protocol such as Internet protocol IP user datagram protocol UDP transmission control protocol TCP hypertext transfer protocol HTTP file transfer protocol FTP electronic mail email protocols or any other type of known or proprietary network protocol.

In embodiments user receives the report and can select at least one of the matched available cloud appliances and or to instantiate the requested services. Once user selects at least one of the matched available cloud appliances user can send the selection through interface to matching module . When matching module receives the user selection matching module can instantiate the selected matched available cloud appliance.

Processor also communicates with the matching module to execute control logic and allow for matching computing processes as described above and below. Other configurations of the matching system associated network connections and other hardware and software resources are possible.

While illustrates the matching system as a standalone system including a combination of hardware and software the matching system can include multiple systems operating in cooperation. The matching module can be implemented as a software application or program capable of being executed by the matching system as illustrated or other conventional computer platforms. Likewise the matching module can also be implemented as a software module or program module capable of being incorporated in other software applications and programs. In either case the matching module can be implemented in any type of conventional proprietary or open source computer language. When implemented as a software application or program code the matching module can be stored in a computer readable storage medium such as storage accessible by the matching system . Likewise during execution a copy of the matching module can be stored in the memory .

In the matching system can collect information about available cloud appliances from various databases clouds and etc. The information can include available virtual machine operating system and application combinations as well as business terms e.g. support level fees licensing constructs etc. One of ordinary skill in the art will understand that step can be done on a periodic basis as well as on demand and therefore does not necessarily have to be done in the order indicated in .

In the matching system can match the requested set of services to at least one of the available cloud appliances and or based on the collected information in step . For example if the user request included information related to a previously purchased on premise socket based license for Adobe Acrobat the matching system can compare the resource requirements of the previously purchased on premises license to the resources of the available cloud appliances and then identify at least one combination of cloud appliances e.g. two virtual machine instances of Adobe Acrobat when run on cloud for each user that meets the resource requirements of the previously purchased on premise license.

In the matching system can provide the information about the matched at least one available cloud appliance and or to the user . For example the matching system can generate reports and provide the reports to the user . The matching system can provide the reports via the network . In the process can end but the process can return to any point and repeat.

Certain embodiments may be performed as a computer application or program. The computer program may exist in a variety of forms both active and inactive. For example the computer program can exist as software program s comprised of program instructions in source code object code executable code or other formats firmware program s or hardware description language HDL files. Any of the above can be embodied on a computer readable medium which include computer readable storage devices and media and signals in compressed or uncompressed form. Exemplary computer readable storage devices and media include conventional computer system RAM random access memory ROM read only memory EPROM erasable programmable ROM EEPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM and magnetic or optical disks or tapes. Exemplary computer readable signals whether modulated using a carrier or not are signals that a computer system hosting or running the present teachings can be configured to access including signals downloaded through the Internet or other networks. Concrete examples of the foregoing include distribution of executable software program s of the computer program on a CD ROM or via Internet download. In a sense the Internet itself as an abstract entity is a computer readable medium. The same is true of computer networks in general.

While the aspects have been described with reference to the exemplary embodiments thereof those skilled in the art will be able to make various modifications to the described embodiments without departing from the true spirit and scope. The terms and descriptions used herein are set forth by way of illustration only and are not meant as limitations. In particular although the method has been described by examples the steps of the method may be performed in a different order than illustrated or simultaneously. Furthermore to the extent that the terms including includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description and the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. As used herein the term one or more of or and or with respect to a listing of items such as for example A and B means A alone B alone or A and B. Those skilled in the art will recognize that these and other variations are possible within the spirit and scope as defined in the following claims and their equivalents.

