---

title: Rich email attachment presentation
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are disclosed for providing a rich email experience for an email with an attachment. Intention metadata that is associated with an attachment to an email is identified, where the intention metadata indicates a sender intention for the attachment. The intention metadata may be identified prior to sending the email and included with the email, or identified after receipt of the email. Further, the intention metadata is applied to the attachment so that the attachment is presented in a rich format to the recipient that reflects the sender intention for the attachment, such as highlighting portions, and/or presenting images, for example, in a desired sequence.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09098836&OS=09098836&RS=09098836
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09098836
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101116
---
Emails are electronic communication between online users e.g. those connected to the Internet and or a network that can be generated and or received using online email providers or email applications. One or more files can be attached to an email such as in order to transfer the file from a sender to a recipient and may comprise word processor document images applications or just about any other type of computer based files. Email attachments are a convenient method to transfer data to another a person and per e mail standards one or more files may be attached to an e mail which can be directed to one or more e mail addresses.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

One of the short comings of current email service is that it may not provide a desired presentation e.g. in a format intended by the sender of the attached file. For example a standard JPG image file does not have a notion of supporting a description of who is in the picture and the scenario of when where the picture was taken and or a desired sequence of viewing for a plurality of images. Although such additional information may be useful when passing the picture along and may be an intention of the sender the JPG file type merely presents the image. Other than describing their intention for an attached file in a body of the email current email system to not provide for a way for the sender to augment the attachment.

Generally current and previous email systems are agnostic about a type of file that is attached to the email and do not account for the sender s intentions for the attachment s with regard to the recipient e.g. view in a particular sequence view merely specified portions of the document etc. . Currently attachments are typically left to the recipient s discretion to be used as the sender intended.

Accordingly one or more techniques and or systems are disclosed for providing email delivery with a sender desired presentation of attachments. For example metadata format may be used by email providers e.g. online providers of email service or e mail applications e.g. local applications that provide email services to present email attachments in a richer format. For example the email e.g. header and or body may contain this information or the metadata can be added as another attachment in a standard language e.g. markup language based code . In this way for example important portions of documents may be highlighted sections of a photo can be annotated attachments can be viewed in a desired sequence and or attachment open download confirmations can be provided in the received email or upon opening of the attachment etc.

In one embodiment for providing a rich email experience for an email with an attachment intention metadata associated with an attachment to an email is identified where the intention metadata indicates a sender intention for the attachment such as how the attachment should be presented. Further the intention metadata is applied to the attachment such that a recipient can identify the sender intention for the attachment.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

A method may be devised that provides for presenting email attachments in a richer format than current and previous techniques and or systems. An agreed upon metadata format may be used by an e mail provider or e mail application that can present e mail attachments in a richer format. For example an e mail body can contain metadata or the metadata can be added as another attachment in a standard code language such as XML. Utilizing these techniques for example may allow for highlighting of important portions of documents annotating sections of a photo sequencing attachment viewing and or attachment open download confirmations among other things.

As an illustrative example the sender may compile a number of pictures such as from a vacation and send them to the recipient with a note in the email body that asks the recipient to take a look at these pictures in order and look at my dog who is doing something funny in the third picture. In this example the sender intent can be characterized as opening the pictures in a particular order and viewing his dog in the third picture. As another illustrative example the sender may send a word processor generated document that has been edited in three locations and writes in the body of the email for the recipient to look at the edits in the second paragraph of page 7 the third paragraph of page 23 and the fifth paragraph of page 48. In this example the sender intent can be characterized as opening the document and navigating to the respective pages and paragraphs where the edits have been made.

In one embodiment the intention metadata can be identified before the email is sent and or after the email is received. For example intention metadata may be automatically e.g. programmatically retrieved from the body portion for example of an email prior to the message being sent. In one embodiment a natural language search for example of the email body may provide indications of the sender s intention for the attachment. In this embodiment the information identified by the search can be used to generate intention metadata which can be sent with the email to the recipient.

As another example the intention metadata can be identified when the email is received such as by an email provider e.g. online provider or email application e.g. email program resident on a client machine . In one embodiment the metadata may be identified in a metadata attachment to the email e.g. along with the sender s attachment s as code written in the body or header of the email and or from a search for intention indicators in the email body.

At in the exemplary embodiment the intention metadata is applied to the attachment in a way that identifies the sender intention for the attachment to the recipient. For example as described above the sender intention can comprise what the sender intends for the recipient to view with regards to the attachment. In one embodiment the metadata can be applied to the attachment such that a richer presentation of the attachment is provided to the recipient.

As an illustrative example the metadata may identify that the sender wishes for the recipient to open vacation pictures in a particular order and highlight a particular portion of one of the pictures. In this example when the metadata is applied to the attached pictures e.g. as markup code the pictures may run in a slideshow presentation such as in the email or when activated by the recipient and the portion of the picture that has the sender s dog can be highlighted e.g. as a box zoom detail . As another illustrative example the metadata may identify that the sender wishes for the recipient to review several edits to the attached document. In this example the metadata can be applied to the document where merely the desired portions of the document are displayed for the recipient such as in the email body or in a separate document when the attachment is activated.

At the sender composes an email to the recipient and attaches the attachment at . For example the email may be written using an online email provider or using a local email application. At intention metadata can be identified for the attachment. In one embodiment the intention metadata can be generated for the attachment. In one embodiment the intention metadata can be identified from intention metadata generated by an application that supports the attachment at .

For example the application used by the sender to create or update the attachment doc may also be used to generate the intention metadata. As an illustrative example the sender may create a text based document using a word processing application. Typically word processing applications provide for highlighting areas or the document adding comments and or calling out edits for example. In this example the sender may apply review type indications e.g. comments highlights edits etc. to portions of the document and the application can automatically e.g. programmatically generate intention metadata for these review type indications. As another example the application may provide a means for asking the user if they wish to indicate intention s for the document e.g. using a menu option which can guide the sender in generating intention metadata for the document.

In one embodiment generating intention metadata for the attachment can comprise the email generator collecting intention metadata from the sender at . For example if the sender attaches the document to the email the email provider or application may ask the user if they wish to generate intention metadata e.g. ask if the sender has a specific intention for the attachment with regards to the recipient . As an illustrative example the email generator may detect a file type for the attachment and ask the sender if they wish to generate intention metadata relevant to the file type e.g. slideshow for pictures highlight portions of doc for text based files provide captions for portions of the file or picture etc. .

In one embodiment the generating intention metadata for the attachment can comprise using sender generated intention metadata at . For example sender of the email may provide the intention metadata written in a form that allows for application to the attachment. In one embodiment the intention metadata may comprise markup language code e.g. XML . In this embodiment the sender may generate e.g. write markup code for the intention metadata for example which can be applied to the attachment such that the sender intention for the attachment is indicated e.g. when the email is opened and or when the attachment is activated .

For example in the exemplary embodiment of intention metadata may be written in XML. In this example the XML intention metadata comprises a first reference to a first attachment design1.jpg and a second reference to a second attachment design2.jpg . In this example the metadata may have been written by the sender generated by the support application and or generated by the email generator e.g. email provider or application .

In another embodiment the intention metadata can be generated from an intention indicator in a body portion of the email at in . In this embodiment a body of the email can be examined for an indicator of the sender intention for the attachment. Further in one embodiment the examining of the body of the email for an indicator of the sender intention for the attachment can comprise performing a natural language search to identify a natural language indicator of the sender intention for the attachment.

For example in the example embodiment of the body of the email can be examined to determine whether there is a reference to one or more of the attachments. In this example the attachments comprise JPEGs which are referenced as Design1.jpg and Design2.jpg . Further the body portion of the email can be examined to identify intent indicators for the attachments. In this example the sender intent may comprise the recipient viewing the respective attachments and a caption Endurance brand in a tropical sky design may be applied to the Design1.jpg attachment and a caption Lastmore brand in an ocean view design may be applied to the attachment Design2.jpg as intent metadata.

In one embodiment the identified intention metadata e.g. identified at of can comprise metadata that indicates at least a portion of the attachment that the sender intends for the recipient to view. For example in the markup code for the intention metadata comprises an indication that a portion of the attachment Design1.jpg is intended to be viewed as defined by coordinates. As another example the metadata may indicate merely a page or paragraph of a document a particular graphic or any other portion of an attachment.

In another embodiment the identified intention metadata can comprise metadata that indicates an action on at least a portion of the attachment that the sender intends to occur. As an example the metadata for Design1.jpg indicates a BoxZoom function for a portion of the attachment indicated by the coordinates. In this example a BoxZoom action can comprise creating a box around the desired portion of the document and zooming into the detail of the boxed portion. As another example the metadata may indicate starting a slideshow of images in a particular order activating a particular embedded application and or any one or more functions that can be applied to an attachment.

In another embodiment the identified intention metadata can comprise metadata that indicates a caption associated with at least a portion of the attachment that the sender intends to be viewed in association with the portion of the attachment. For example most standard image formats with good compression do not support annotations. However when viewing a picture the viewer may wish to have a caption that describes what they are looking at and or the title of the image file. In as described above the intention metadata can comprise captions for the Design1.jpg and Design2.jpg attachments such as Endurance brand in a tropical sky design for Design1.jpg Lastmore brand in an ocean view design for Design2.jpg.

In at the intention metadata is combined with the email. In one embodiment the combining can comprise incorporating the intention metadata into at least a portion of the email. For example the intention metadata can be incorporated into the body portion of the email and or a header portion of the email. In the example embodiment of for example the metadata can be derived for the one or more attachments and incorporated into the email body and or header . As another example in the intention metadata is incorporated into the body portion of the email such as in markup language code form.

In one embodiment the combining can comprise attaching a metadata file to the email where the metadata file comprises the intention metadata. For example as illustrated in a metadata file can be created for the metadata and the metadata file can be attached to the email with the other attachments . As an illustrative example the metadata file can comprise markup language code e.g. of and comprise a file type that may be recognized by an email provider or application as an intention metadata file.

In the example embodiment of the combination of the intention metadata with the email can result in an email comprising the attachment s and the intention metadata . As an illustrative example in an email that is sent by the sender s email provider or application can comprise the attachments and the email header and body. In this example the attachments can comprise the attached files and in one embodiment the attached metadata file . In another embodiment the email header and or email body may comprise the metadata .

At in one embodiment as described above identifying the intention metadata can comprise examining the body of the email for an indicator of the sender intention for the attachment for example by performing a natural language search for natural language indicators of the sender intention. In this embodiment the email and the one or more attachments are examined and intention indicators that reference the one or more attachments can be used to generate metadata at . For example the email body may comprise the phrase please execute your signature on pages two seven and 14 of the attached document Loan papers.xps. In this example metadata may be generated for the attachment that when applied to the attachment displays merely the appropriate pages.

At the intention metadata is identified and in one embodiment where the metadata comprises markup language code the code can be read such as by the email provider or application. In one embodiment identifying the intention metadata can comprise reading the metadata file attached to the email that comprises the intention metadata. In another embodiment identifying the intention metadata can comprise examining at least a portion of the email for the intention metadata. In this embodiment the portion of the email can comprise the header portion and or the body portion e.g. reading the markup code in the body of the email in .

At the intention metadata can be applied to the one or more attachments for example by applying the markup language code describing the sender intention s to the attachments. In one embodiment the intention metadata can be applied to the attachment such that the sender intention is applied when the attachment is activated. For example the recipient of the email may view the attachment at which point the sender intention for the attachment is applied. In another embodiment the intention metadata can be applied to the attachment such that the sender intention for the attachment is displayed in a body portion of the email. For example when the recipient opens the email the sender intention for the attachment is displayed in the email body.

As an illustrative example in the example embodiment of the email body and header and the attachments comprising the attached files and in one embodiment the attached metadata file may arrive at the recipient s email provider or application. The recipient may open the email and in one embodiment at of the example embodiment a rich attachment presentation is presented to the recipient. In this example the rich presentation for the attachments can be presented in the email body where a caption may be shown for an image and comment may be applied to a portion of one or more attached documents.

In another embodiment the presentation to the recipient at of the example embodiment may occur when the recipient activates one of the attachments. For example in when the recipient opens the attached image file the caption can be displayed with e.g. in or near the image. Further in this example when the recipient opens the attached document files merely those portion specified by the applied intention metadata can be displayed along with the sender s comments .

It will be appreciated that the rich attachment presentation is not limited to the example embodiments described above. It is anticipated that those skilled in the art may devise alternate rich attachment presentations that are facilitated by intention metadata associated with attachments to an email. For example there are techniques currently used where an email sender can request a read receipt which is activated when the recipient reads the email. In one embodiment the intention metadata may be applied to an attachment such that when the attachment is read e.g. or some other intended action is performed an action performed receipt may be generated for the attachment.

A system may be devised that provides for a rich presentation of email attachments Metadata that indicates an email sender s intent for the attachment s may be used to present e mail attachments in a richer format to a recipient of the email such as in a body of the email and or when the attachment is activated e.g. opened . In this way for example attachments may be sequenced for viewing in a desired manner important portions of documents can be highlighted and presented to the recipient captions may be added to images and or attachment open download confirmations can be provided among other things.

In one embodiment the exemplary system may be coupled with a sender s email provider or application. As an example the sender can write an email and attach a desired file e.g. word processor document . The metadata identification component can identify the intention metadata e.g. metadata that indicates the sender s intention for the attachment such as merely show desired portions of the document and the metadata application component can apply it to the attachment. In this way in this example when the recipient opens the email and or opens the attachment they will experience a rich attachment presentation such as merely the sender indicated portions of the document being displayed in a zoomed in manner e.g. in the email or in a supporting application .

In another embodiment the exemplary system may be coupled with a recipient s email provider or application. As an example the recipient may receive the email and attachment and the metadata identification component can identify the intention metadata for the attachment and the metadata application component can apply the identified intention metadata to the attachment. In this example when the recipient opens the email and or opens the attachment they will experience a rich attachment presentation .

In another embodiment one or more portions of the exemplary system may be coupled with the sender s email provider or application and one or more portions of the exemplary system may be coupled with the recipient s email provider or application. For example the metadata identifier may identify the intention metadata on the sender s side before the email is sent. Further in this example the metadata applier may apply the identified intention metadata to the attachment on the recipient side after the email is received.

Additionally the intention metadata can comprise markup code that is configured to apply an action on one or more portions of the attachment such as presenting a slideshow of images in a desired sequence. As another example the action performed by the application of the markup code may comprise activating an action receipt confirmation for the sender. The intention metadata may also comprise markup code that is configured to provide a caption for an associated portion of the attachment such as by taking a tile of the file and or a desired description and adding the same to a presentation of one or more portions of the attachment.

An intention metadata generation component is configured to generate intention metadata for the attachment to the email and provide the same to the identification component . The intention metadata generation component may generate intention metadata by identifying an intention indicator in a body portion of the email collecting intention metadata from the sender using sender generated intention metadata and or using intention metadata generated by an application that supports the attachment for example.

In one embodiment such as where the exemplary system is coupled with the sender email provider or application an intention metadata combining component may combine the intention metadata with the email such as prior to sending to the recipient. In this embodiment the intention metadata combining component can combine the intention metadata with the email by attaching a metadata file to the email where the metadata file comprises the intention metadata. In another embodiment the intention metadata combining component can combine the intention metadata with the email by incorporating the intention metadata into at least a portion of the email such as the email header and or email body. The metadata application component can then apply the intention metadata to one or more attachments in a desired manner to yield the rich attachment presentation so that a recipient has an enhanced experience that is consistent with the intention of the sender for example.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

