---

title: System and method for scheduled delivery of shipments with multiple shipment carriers
abstract: Various embodiments of a system and method for scheduled delivery of shipments with multiple shipment carriers are described. Various embodiments may include a scheduled delivery component configured to receive delivery availability information for multiple shipment carriers. In various embodiments, for each shipment carrier, delivery availability information may specify one or more delivery periods during which that shipment carrier is available to deliver shipments of one or more items to designated locations. This delivery availability information may be utilized to generate a scheduled delivery tool that enables users to select a particular delivery period during which an item is to be delivered. The scheduled delivery tool may provide multiple selectable delivery periods based on the delivery availability information of multiple shipment carriers. The scheduled delivery component may determine that a particular delivery period has been selected and generate a delivery instruction based on such selection.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08429019&OS=08429019&RS=08429019
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08429019
owner_city: Reno
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100316
---
This application claims benefit of priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 255 901 filed Oct. 29 2009 titled System And Method For Scheduled Delivery Of Shipments With Multiple Shipment Carriers which is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Electronic marketplaces such as those available via the Internet offer goods and services to customers. In contrast to many retail shopping experiences customers of electronic marketplaces typically do not purchase items in person. Instead customers may browse through electronic item descriptions which may include textual descriptions of items as well as photographs or other electronic representations of a product of interest. In one example item descriptions may be viewed as web pages on the Internet via a web browser. To purchase an item a customer may engage in a checkout process whereby the electronic marketplace collects the requisite information for processing a transaction. Such information may include shipping and billing information for the customer as well as financial information such as credit or bank information associated with an account from which funds for the purchase should be debited. Some checkout processes will provide the customer with one or more shipping options such as regular shipping or expedited shipping. Such shipping options will typically allow a customer to select a shipping service that may purport to guarantee delivery of a purchased item by a certain date. Even in such cases the degree of uncertainty as to when an item will actually arrive at a customer s designated shipping destination may result in an unfavorable shopping experience for the customer.

While the system and method for scheduled delivery of shipments with multiple shipment carriers is described herein by way of example for several embodiments and illustrative drawings those skilled in the art will recognize that the system and method for scheduled delivery of shipments with multiple shipment carriers is not limited to the embodiments or drawings described. It should be understood that the drawings and detailed description thereto are not intended to limit the system and method for scheduled delivery of shipments with multiple shipment carriers to the particular form disclosed but on the contrary the intention is to cover all modifications equivalents and alternatives falling within the spirit and scope of the system and method for scheduled delivery of shipments with multiple shipment carriers as defined by the appended claims. The headings used herein are for organizational purposes only and are not meant to be used to limit the scope of the description or the claims. As used throughout this application the word may is used in a permissive sense i.e. meaning having the potential to rather than the mandatory sense i.e. meaning must . Similarly the words include including and includes mean including but not limited to.

Various embodiments of a system and method for scheduled delivery of shipments with multiple shipment carriers are described. Various embodiments may include a scheduled delivery component configured to receive delivery availability information for multiple shipment carriers. In various embodiments for each shipment carrier delivery availability information may specify one or more delivery periods during which that shipment carrier is available to deliver shipments of one or more items to designated locations. In some embodiments the scheduled delivery component may collect and aggregate the delivery availability information within a database of delivery availability information. In various embodiments this delivery availability information may be utilized to generate a scheduled delivery tool that enables users to select a particular delivery period during which an item is to be delivered. For example the scheduled delivery tool may be implemented as part of an electronic marketplace such as an electronic marketplace accessible via one or more networks e.g. the Internet . In various embodiments the scheduled delivery tool may be provided as part an item detail page described below or an order completion process also described below . The scheduled delivery tool may provide multiple selectable delivery periods based on the delivery availability information of multiple shipment carriers. In some embodiments the scheduled delivery tool may include a graphical calendar with multiple selectable delivery periods during which an item is to be delivered. The scheduled delivery component may determine that a particular delivery period has been selected and generate a delivery instruction based on such selection. For instance the scheduled delivery component may identify a shipment carrier that corresponds to the selected delivery period and provide the delivery instruction to that shipment carrier. The delivery instruction may specify that a shipment including one or more items e.g. one or more purchased items is to be delivered during the selected time period. In some cases this delivery instruction may be included as part of a shipment manifest described in more detail below .

In various embodiments a materials handling facility may include one or more facilities that process store and or distribute units of items including but not limited to warehouses distribution centers hubs fulfillment centers nodes in a supply chain network retail establishments shipping facilities stock storage facilities or any other facility configured to process units of items. For example this Figure may illustrate an order fulfillment center of a product distributor according to some embodiments. Multiple customers may submit orders to the product distributor through an e commerce portal or other electronic marketplace where each order specifies one or more items from inventory to be shipped to the customer that submitted the order. To fulfill the customer orders the one or more items specified in each order may be retrieved or picked from inventory which may also be referred to as stock storage in the materials handling facility as indicated at . Picked items may be delivered or conveyed if necessary to one or more stations in the materials handling facility for sorting into their respective orders packing and finally shipping to the customers . In various embodiments picked items may be delivered to a station where individual units of items are associated with and placed into particular conveyance receptacles which are then inducted into a conveyance mechanism. The conveyance receptacles may then be routed to particular destinations for the items contained within the receptacles in accordance with the requests orders currently being processed e.g. to sorting stations under direction of a control system e.g. control system . A picked packed and shipped order does not necessarily include all of the items ordered by the customer an outgoing shipment to a customer may include only a subset of the ordered items available to ship at one time from an inventory storage location.

A materials handling facility may also include a receiving operation for receiving shipments of stock e.g. units of inventory items from one or more sources e.g. vendors and for moving or stowing the received stock into stock storage e.g. inventory . The receiving operation may also receive and process returned purchased or rented items or orders from customers. At least some of these items are typically returned to inventory . The various operations of a materials handling facility may be located in one building or facility or alternatively may be spread or subdivided across two or more buildings or facilities. In various instances it should be understood that references to elements units items processes or anything else as being located within materials handling facility may easily be extended to encompass elements units items processes or anything else proximate to but not physically located within materials handling facility. For example various elements units items or processes or anything else may be implemented outside of the materials handling facility according to some embodiments.

In various embodiments shipments of one or more items at shipping may be transferred to one or more shipment carrier network s . Each shipment carrier s network may include one or more distribution facilities for storing items as well as vehicles for conveying shipments from such distribution facilities and or materials handling facilities such as materials handling facility to various destinations e.g. customer specified destinations . Examples of customer specified destinations may include a customer s residence or a pick up location e.g. a retail place of commerce .

In various embodiments the electronic catalog of the electronic marketplace may include for each item offered for sale via the e commerce portal a corresponding item detail page. An item detail page may include information about a respective item such as specifications e.g. weight or dimensions photographs or other pictures videos marketing material or other information pertaining to the respective item. Generally speaking the item detail page may include any information that may assist a customer in determining whether to purchase an item.

In various embodiments display may also include a control the selection of which may cause a scheduled delivery control to be displayed on the item detail page or on a subsequent display. While control is illustrated as a calendar icon in the illustrated embodiments other embodiments may utilize any of a variety of controls including but not limited to check boxes radio buttons text entry fields toggle controls or any other type of user interface element. Additionally some embodiments may include controls to specify the region of a delivery destination e.g. an entry field to submit the zip code of a delivery destination . In other cases the delivery destination may be determined from customer account information. For instance a user viewing display may be logged into an online account associated with stored information about the user such as the user s address or other preferred location of delivery. In various embodiments selection of control may cause the display of a graphical scheduled delivery tool such as schedule delivery tool describe in more detail below with respect to . In some embodiments scheduled delivery tool may be integrated directly within the item detail page of .

Any information submitted via user interface e.g. by client system or a user thereof may be provided as a response to network based content server s . In one example control is selected indicating that purchase of the respective item is desired and an indication of such selection is provided to network based content server . Note that any communication between client system s and network based content server s may occur over network s which may be configured in a manner similar to that of network described in more detail with respect to . In response to the selection of control network based content server s may provide additional content to client system s such as data or information representing one or more user interfaces for completing the purchase of the item.

Selection of control may indicate that the customer desires to schedule a delivery through the user interface display provided by network based content server s . In various embodiments a particular day e.g. as indicated by a particular date and a particular period of time within that day e.g. as indicated by a particular range of the particular date may be selected from a drop down menu such as user interface control . In various embodiments this selection may be performed in a more graphical manner by the selection of calendar control which may cause the display of calendar scheduling tool . Calendar scheduling tool may include multiple selectable days e.g. December 1 December 7 in the illustrated embodiment as well as one or more selectable delivery periods for each of such days. As indicated by the legend some delivery periods may not be selectable marked as unavailable . In an example consistent with the illustrated embodiment a particular day and time period within the particular day have been selected e.g. December 4 9 11 am . In various embodiments the merchant operating the electronic marketplace e.g. the merchant controlling network based content server s may guarantee that delivery of the item to a designated destination address will occur during the delivery period specified. In this way a customer may rest assured that should they need to make arrangements to be present for a delivery such arrangements will not be made in vain as the delivery of the item will be guaranteed to occur during the selected time period of the specified day.

In various embodiments multiple scheduled delivery tools may be provided on the same user interface display for multi item shipments. For instance in the illustrated embodiment of a second set of controls similar to controls may be provided for a second item in the order. In this way the scheduled delivery tool may provide controls for independently selecting a respective delivery time for different items of the same order.

In other embodiments scheduled delivery user interface display may be integrated into the same user interface display of the item detail page. In this way a user may set his desired scheduled delivery period prior to adding the item to an electronic shopping cart and or before indicating that the item is to be purchased.

In various embodiments network based content server s may also provide a user interface for confirming the purchase of an item as well as the scheduled delivery period described with respect to . illustrates an example of a user interface display including a confirmation page that may be presented to a user of client system s . For instance network based content server s may provide data or information representing such user interface display over network . In various embodiments user interface display may be provided by network based content server s in response to the scheduling of a delivery in accordance with the user interface display of . In various embodiments user interface display may include one or more fields for confirming the destination shipping address for the item. In various embodiments user interface display may also include one or more controls for confirming or changing the scheduled delivery period such as a delivery period scheduled in accordance with scheduled delivery user interface . In various embodiments controls may include controls similar to controls of . Controls may be utilized in cases where the user would like to change a scheduled delivery that was set at some earlier point in the order process. In other embodiments controls may represent the initial point in the order process at which the user may define his scheduled delivery period. In various embodiments user interface may also include fields for viewing an order summary that specifies pricing information for the order such as a subtotal or total cost for the order. In various embodiments user interface may also include fields which may include fields for specifying billing information such as an account to be debited for the purchase e.g. a bank account or credit account or the billing address associated with such account.

Various components and systems illustrated in may facilitate the scheduled delivery feature described above. One of such systems is scheduled delivery component of . Scheduled delivery component may in various embodiments obtain or receive delivery availability information from multiple different shipment carriers. As will be described in more detail below this delivery availability information may in various embodiments be utilized to generate the delivery period selection tool described above with respect to e.g. controls .

In various embodiments delivery availability information may be received by scheduled delivery component from one or more shipment carrier system s each of which may be owned or controlled by a different shipment carrier. In other cases scheduled delivery component may include a user interface for inputting delivery availability information from one or more shipment carriers. For instance instead of a shipment carrier system electronically transmitting delivery availability information to scheduled delivery system the respective shipment carrier may in various embodiments provide a hard copy of delivery availability information. A user may input such delivery availability information into scheduled delivery component via the aforesaid user interface. In various embodiments scheduled delivery component may receive updated or new delivery availability information on a periodic or aperiodic basis.

A given shipment carrier s availability information may specify delivery periods at which the shipment carrier is available deliver an item. Such delivery periods may be specified on a per region basis such a region may include regions defined zip codes cites states territories or other types of defined regions. For example delivery availability information may specify that a shipment carrier is available to deliver a specified quantity of shipments this quantity of shipment may in various embodiments be specific to a particular region particular day and or particular time period with a respective day. For instance delivery availability information provided by a shipment carrier system may indicate that the respective shipment carrier is available to deliver 10 shipments for zip code 98101 between 1 00 P.M. and 3 00 P.M. on a specific day. Such delivery availability information may include multiple other entries specifying a shipment carrier s capacity e.g. quantity of shipments that may be handled for other regions days and or delivery periods. In some embodiments delivery availability information may be specific to a particular type of shipments. For instance shipments may be broken up into different categories e.g. small large heavy bulky etc. and the shipment carrier may have a different capacity for each of such categories.

In various embodiments delivery availability information may be submitted through a user interface configured for the submission of delivery availability information. Such user interface may in various embodiments be provided by scheduled delivery component and or network based content server s . For instance a shipment carrier agent may access such user interface to provide and or configure delivery availability information for a respective shipment carrier. In one example a network based content server may provide such a user interface. Any information obtained via such user interface may be forwarded to scheduled delivery component for inclusion within delivery availability information data store described in more detail below .

One example of a user interface display for submitting delivery availability information is illustrated in as illustrated by user interface display . In one example data and or information representing such a user interface display may be provided by network based content server s to one or more shipment carrier systems agents operating such systems may submit delivery availability information via the user interface display. The submitted information may in various embodiments be provided to a network based content server which may provide the delivery availability information to scheduled delivery component . In other cases delivery availability information may be provided directly to scheduled delivery component .

User interface display may include multiple controls for submitting delivery availability information. In some embodiments delivery availability information may include any information that may be submitted via user interface display . In various embodiments user interface display may include one or more controls for naming a newly created calendar including delivery availability information. The user interface display may also include a control for specifying that settings from a previous calendar of previously specified delivery availability information. User interface display may also include a control for specifying a calendar delivery type which may include options for specifying the granularity of a delivery period. Such options may include a day option which specifies that the granularity of a delivery period is to be handled as an entire day. Such options may also include a slot option which specifies that the granularity of a delivery period is to be handled as some subset of an entire day such as a range of hours or some other time period with a given day. User interface display may also include a control to specify a capacity type which may specify the units for capacity control described below which may include items or shipments which may include multiple items . User interface may also include a control for specifying a time zone of the times that define each specified delivery period control described below . User interface display may also include a control for specifying the time zone of the times that specify delivery cut offs controls described below . The user interface display may also include a control for specifying the region in which the delivery availability information of the calendar is valid. As described above this region may be different in various embodiments and may include but is not limited to regions defined zip codes cites states territories or other types of defined regions. The user interface display may also include controls and for specifying a time period for which the delivery availability information of the calendar is valid.

User interface display may also include various controls for specifying delivery availability information in calendar format. For instance control may specify a particular day for which a given entry e.g. row of the delivery availability information is valid. In the illustrated embodiment there are seven entries each for a different day of the week. In various embodiments other numbers of entries may be utilized. In some cases there may be multiple entries for the same day. In some cases some days may have no entries. Such options may be specified by the shipment carrier. In the illustrated embodiment controls may specify a delivery period within the respective day of the same entry. In various embodiments the delivery period may be a period of time during which the shipment carrier is available to deliver a shipment. Such delivery period may be specified at any level of time granularity. In one example a delivery period is specified in a range of one or more hours e.g. 12 00 pm 1 00 pm or 3 00 pm 5 00 pm . In various embodiments the illustrated display may include controls for specifying holiday specific delivery periods. For instance a carrier may have no availability on holidays or may have reduced availability on holidays. In other cases holiday specific availability may be specified by a separate calendar altogether.

The user interface display may also include controls and for specifying a cut off time which may be a time of day at which a shipment carrier must be notified of the shipment in order to delivery the shipment by the requested time. The illustrated embodiment includes separate controls for same day and next day or later shipments. In one example a shipment carrier may need to be notified of a shipment by 12 noon in order to deliver a shipment on that same day. In another example a shipment carrier may need to be notified of a shipment by 5 pm of a given day in order to deliver an item by the following day. In some cases shipment carriers may utilize control for specifying a charge associated with delivering shipments during the respective delivery period although this may be optional in various embodiments. User interface display may also include a control for specifying the capacity of the respective delivery period which may specify the quantity of shipments or items dependent upon the units specified by control that the shipment carrier is available to deliver during the respective delivery period as specified by control . In one example dependent upon available labor and transportation resources a shipment carrier may be able to deliver ten shipments during one delivery time period and twenty shipments in another delivery time period. Of course such capacities are merely examples actual capacities will depend on the capabilities of individual shipment carriers.

Scheduled delivery component may collect and aggregate any of the aforesaid delivery availability information from multiple different shipment carriers into one or more data stores of delivery availability information such as delivery availability information DAI data store . In various embodiments DAI data store may be configured as a database as one or more mass storage devices e.g. physical disks logical volumes etc. configured to store data blocks or files or in any other suitable configuration for data storage. In various embodiments the collection and aggregation of delivery and availability information from multiple different shipment carriers may provide a comprehensive view of the available delivery options for items such as those acquired through the electronic marketplace described above.

In various embodiments for each shipment carrier the delivery and availability information may be categorized into different geographical jurisdictions which may include groupings of delivery availability information of smaller constituent regions. For instance as described above delivery availability information may be provided on a per region basis. In one example each shipment carrier may provide delivery availability information for various zip codes. In various embodiments natural similarities may occur across regions e.g. zip codes or other regions due to the nature of a shipment carrier s shipment handling network. For instance a shipment carrier may service multiple different zip codes or other regions with the same shipment handling center. For example an entire city that spans multiple zip codes may be serviced by the same shipment handling center. Accordingly the delivery availability information for each of such zip codes may in many cases be similar or identical. In such cases the scheduled delivery component described herein may group such regions together for purposes of scheduled delivery. Such groupings may be referred to herein as jurisdictions. In various embodiments the scheduled delivery component described herein may be configured to process delivery availability information at a jurisdiction level which may in some embodiments conserve processing resources.

For a given order scheduled delivery component may be configured to generate the data information and or program instructions that represent the scheduled delivery user interface tool described above e.g. the user interface tool of . As described above network based content server s may provide a given client system with network based content representing one or more portions of an electronic marketplace or e commerce portal including but not limited to various item detail pages e.g. . Network based content server s may also provide a scheduled delivery user interface tool to any of client system s . As described above this tool may be utilized for scheduling a delivery based on the delivery availability of multiple shipment carriers.

The information data and or executable instructions representing the scheduled delivery tool may be provided to the network based content server s by the scheduled delivery component . Note that in some embodiments scheduled delivery component may instead be an integrated component of network based content server s . In various embodiments scheduled delivery component may be configured as a service interface that may be called by network based content server s .

In various embodiments scheduled delivery component may be configured to provide network based content server s with information indicating multiple delivery time periods during which at least one shipment carrier is available to delivery a shipment. Network based content server s may provide information indicating such delivery time periods to client system s . For example one representation of such time periods is illustrated as the available delivery periods of control of which may be displayed on a display of a client system .

In various embodiments scheduled delivery component may generate and maintain a stored representation of each shipment carrier s capacity. For instance DAI may include for each shipment carrier a listing of available delivery periods and the capacity of shipment for each of such periods e.g. the quantity of shipments that may be handled by the shipment carrier during that period . In various embodiments shipment carriers may specify this capacity as described above with respect to control . Each time an order is placed and a corresponding shipment is scheduled with a shipment carrier described in more detail below the scheduled delivery component may decrement the corresponding capacity value. When a shipment carrier s capacity reaches zero for a given delivery period scheduled delivery component may exclude that time period from being listed as an available delivery period for that shipment carrier. In this way scheduled delivery component may generate and maintain the contents of DAI such that DAI indicates a real time or near real time representation of each shipment carrier s capacity. In various embodiments a shipment carrier s capacity may be specific to a particular region jurisdiction type of item or shipment to be delivered e.g. small light large heavy etc. and or other shipment related criteria.

While illustrates a graphical display for the submission of delivery availability information embodiments are not limited to receiving delivery availability information in this manner. For instance in some cases such as when large amounts of delivery availability information are to be submitted delivery availability information may be submitted via a bulk upload template. For instance in various embodiments data representing such a template may include information similar to that of display for multiple different geographical regions or jurisdictions. In some embodiments a bulk upload template may be a data file or other information that includes delivery availability information for multiple regions jurisdictions and or time periods the template including the delivery availability information may be provided to scheduled delivery component from one or more shipment carrier systems . In some embodiments display may include a control that enables a user e.g. an agent of a shipment carrier to upload one or more files representing the aforesaid bulk upload template including delivery availability information .

In various embodiments scheduled delivery component may also be configured to provide a network based programmatic interface such as an interface adhering to a particular application programming interface API . The programmatic interface may be configured to receive submissions of delivery availability information from the shipment carrier systems such as shipment carrier system s of . In various embodiments shipment carrier systems s may utilize such programmatic interface to update delivery availability information in real time or near real time . Scheduled delivery component may be configured to store and aggregate such real time delivery availability information within scheduled delivery component . In this way scheduled delivery component may generate the selectable delivery periods of the scheduled delivery tool of based on the most up to date delivery availability information available.

In various embodiments the scheduled delivery component may enforce one or more constraints on the set of delivery periods that are conveyed to network based content server s as available delivery periods. In some embodiments one of such constraints may include one or more blackout windows which may be a set of days or other time periods during which delivery appointments cannot be scheduled irrespective of a shipment carrier s availability during that set of days. For example in order to deliver a shipment during a scheduled delivery period for a given region or jurisdiction a shipment carrier may require a certain period of time between when the shipment carrier is notified of a shipment delivery and when the shipment carrier can actually perform the delivery. This period of time may be referred to as shipment carrier lead time. In various embodiments shipment carrier lead times may be different for different regions jurisdictions shipment service levels e.g. same day next day two day ground etc. and or shipment carriers. For instance for the same region one shipment carrier may only require a two hour shipment carrier lead time whereas another shipment carrier may require a two day lead time. Based on these lead times and the date and or time at which an order is placed the scheduled delivery component may enforce one or more blackout periods on the set of available delivery periods provided to the network based content server s . For instance if an order is placed on a given day and a shipment carrier indicates that it requires a three day lead time for shipment deliveries the scheduled delivery component may ensure that delivery periods during the three days of lead time are not indicated as available delivery periods for that shipment carrier.

In various embodiments the determination of which selectable delivery periods are included as part of the scheduled delivery tool may be based on factors or criteria other than the delivery availability information provided by the shipment carriers described in more detail below . In various embodiments this functionality may be performed by a planning engine component such as planning engine component of . In some embodiments the planning engine component may be configured as a component separate from the scheduled delivery component. In other cases the scheduled delivery component may include the functionality of the planning engine component.

In various embodiments the planning engine component may be configured to enforce a lead time requirement on the selectable delivery periods provided as part of the scheduled delivery tool. This requirement may be enforced on a per carrier basis. The planning engine component may provide selectable time periods to a user based on this requirement. One criteria on which the planning engine component may base the determination of a lead time requirement may include historical carrier performance e.g. as measured by performance monitor component . For example if prior performance of the carrier indicates the carrier requires a four day lead time to deliver an item the planning engine component may be configured to enforce a four day lead time requirement for that carrier. This requirement may in some cases override a carrier s own delivery availability information. For example if a shipment carrier s delivery availability information indicates that the carrier s lead time is only three days whereas the planning engine component indicates that the minimum lead time requirement for that carrier is four days the scheduled delivery component may give preference to the planning engine component by enforcing the four day lead time requirement.

In various embodiments the planning engine component may determine the lead time requirement based on other factors or criteria. In one example the lead time requirement may be based on weather projections such as projections obtained from a network based weather service. For example in times of inclement weather the planning engine component may provide the scheduled delivery component with an indication that all lead times should be extended by two days to account for such inclement weather. In another example the planning engine component may determine the lead time requirement based on a schedule of holidays if applicable . For instance if the order date is on or around a business holiday the planning engine component may provide an indication to the scheduled delivery component that indicates lead times are to be extended by the length of the holiday e.g. one day for a one day holiday . In another example the planning engine component may determine the lead time requirement based on historical lead time of the materials handling facility preparing the shipment. For instance historical facility performance may indicate that a five hour lead time is sufficient for one materials handling facility whereas another materials handling facility may require a two day lead time.

In any case the lead time requirement determined by the planning engine component may be provided to the scheduled delivery component which may filter the selectable delivery periods based on such lead time requirement. For instance within the context of if the scheduled delivery tool were accessed on 8 A.M. of December 1st and the planning engine component specified a full two business day lead time requirement the available time periods associated with December 1st and 2nd may be removed. Note that this process may be done on a per carrier basis. For instance the minimum lead times enforced may be different across different shipment carriers.

In various embodiments the set of available delivery periods that are conveyed by the scheduled delivery component to the network based content server s may include available delivery periods of different shipment carriers in various embodiments. In some cases available delivery periods of different shipment carriers may overlap. For instance in Friday December 3is listed as an available delivery period which may mean that one or possibly multiple shipment carriers are available to deliver a shipment during that delivery period. In cases where multiple shipment carriers are available to deliver a shipment during the same delivery period the customer e.g. user of client system s may be given a choice of shipment carrier. In other cases scheduled delivery component may select the shipment carrier to be assigned to that shipment based on one or more economic criteria including but limited to the cost of using each shipment carrier for shipping the shipment. In cases where scheduled delivery component performs such a selection the selection may be performed at order time e.g. during or around the time the order is placed or at shipment time e.g. during or around the time the order is shipped from the respective materials handling facility . In other cases the scheduled delivery component may select among multiple shipment carriers for the same delivery period on the basis of carrier ratings e.g. satisfaction ratings submitted by customers customer preferences e.g. a customer may specify that a particular carrier is not allowed to handle that customer s shipments and or customer requests e.g. a customer may request that a specific carrier handle their shipment .

In various embodiments the particular selectable delivery periods provided as part of the scheduled delivery tool may be based on delivery information pertinent to the region of the shipment destination. For instance as described above with respect to the region of the shipment destination may be specified by the user or by customer account information according to some embodiments. The scheduled delivery component described herein may be configured to search DAI for delivery available information specific to that region. For instance as described above with respect to a shipment carrier s delivery availability information or calendar may be valid for a specific region as denoted by control described above . When determining which selectable delivery periods to include in an instance of the scheduled delivery tool the scheduled delivery component may be configured to exclude delivery availability information for regions other than the region corresponding to the shipment destination of the respective shipment.

Network based content server s may be configured to provide scheduled delivery component with an indication of a selected delivery period e.g. an indication of the delivery period selected by the customer . For instance in the selected delivery period is illustrated as December 4from 9 am to 11 am. The client system may send such indication to the network based content server s which may forward the information to scheduled delivery component . Scheduled delivery component may update DAI according to the selected delivery period such as by decrementing the capacity value for the selected delivery period for the respective shipment carrier. In cases where the shipment carrier is decided at a later time which may occur if multiple shipment carriers are available to deliver the shipment during the same time period the scheduled delivery component may wait to decrement the appropriate capacity value at that time.

In addition to maintaining the delivery availability information data store in the manner described above scheduled delivery component may be configured to update DAI periodically or aperiodically based on newly acquired delivery availability information for any of the shipment carriers.

In various embodiments instead of relying on a data store or database such as DAI for delivery availability information scheduled delivery component may acquire such information at order time. For instance network based content server may request delivery availability information e.g. a listing of available delivery periods from scheduled delivery component at order time. In these embodiments instead of querying DAI for the current delivery availability information scheduled delivery component may request such information in real time from one or more shipment carrier systems such as shipment carrier system s .

In various embodiments scheduled delivery component may notify a shipment carrier that one or more of the shipment carrier s available delivery periods has been selected for a particular order shipment. This process may be referred to as scheduling a delivery period with the shipment carrier. In various embodiments this may occur during or around the time an item is purchased. In other cases such as when a shipment carrier is selected at or around the time the respective materials handling facility is to ship the respective item the scheduled delivery component may be configured to notify the shipment carrier at that time.

In various embodiments a shipment carrier may be notified of a scheduled delivery by receiving a manifest that includes an indication of such scheduled delivery. In various embodiments manifest generation component may be configured to generate such manifests. A manifest may in various embodiments include a listing of all the items or shipments on a shipment carrier s vehicle upon departure from a materials handling facility such as the materials handling facility of . Manifest generation component may be configured to generate data representing electronic manifests and transmit such manifests to respective shipment carriers. In various embodiments one or more systems at a materials handling facility may generate a hard copy of such manifests to accompany the vehicle to which the manifest corresponds. In various embodiments shipment carriers may utilize their own distribution facilities for temporarily storing shipments that are sourced from a materials handling facility. For instance in some cases a particular distribution facility may store shipments that are to be delivered to a particular region or jurisdiction. To support the shipment carrier s operations the manifest generation component described herein may be configured to provide a date or other temporal indication that indicates the time and or date at which the shipment carrier is to have a shipment delivered to such a distribution facility. This time and or date may be based on the delivery period and the time required by the shipment carrier to deliver a shipment from the shipment carrier s respective distribution facility to the shipment s ultimate destination.

Various other systems may support the processing of an order in various embodiments. In various embodiments order processing component may be configured to process transaction related tasks associated with the purchase of an item in the electronic marketplace provided by network based content server s . For instance network based content server s may collect account information e.g. bank or credit account numbers associated with an account from which funds should be debited for a purchase. In some embodiments order processing component may provide confirmation that a purchase has been completed. In some embodiments scheduled delivery component may use such confirmation as the basis for committing a scheduled delivery to DAI e.g. via decrementing a capacity value as described above and or as a basis for scheduling a delivery with the respective shipment carrier.

In various embodiments performance monitor component may be configured to generate one or more performance metrics and or reports including such metrics. In some cases each metric may correspond to a respective shipment carrier s performance with respect to actually delivering orders during the scheduled delivery periods. To generate such metrics the performance monitor component may be configured to for each scheduled shipment compare the actual delivery time to the scheduled delivery period for that shipment. In various embodiments the actual delivery period may be self reported by the shipment carriers or obtained from customer feedback e.g. surveys or reviews . In various embodiments performance metrics may be categorized into different groups on the basis of various criteria including but not limited to shipment carrier time period e.g. by month or season region jurisdiction item type shipment service type e.g. same day next day etc. and or some other level of service e.g. white glove delivery or installation services .

In various embodiments scheduled delivery component and network based content server s may provide a rescheduling feature that supports a user s ability to reschedule a previously scheduled delivery period. For instance such a user may utilize a client system to login in to an electronic marketplace customer account provided by network based content server s which may provide one or more tools similar to those of for rescheduling a previously scheduled delivery period to a new delivery period. In some embodiments this option may not be available if the shipment carrier has already been notified of the original delivery period.

Note that in various embodiments the scheduling of a delivery period according to the techniques described herein occur within an order process and or payment process of the electronic marketplace. In this way a user may in various embodiments conveniently schedule a shipment to be delivered during a particular delivery window at the time an item is ordered. This may in various embodiments relieve the user of having to engage in follow up communications with the shipment carrier or other entities in order to schedule a shipment delivery time.

In various embodiments the techniques described above may also be applied to drop shippers. For instance in addition to or as an alternative to the fulfillment of shipments by materials handling facilities operated by the entity controlling scheduled delivery component e.g. materials handling facility various embodiments may also include shipments originating from other entities. In some cases instead of certain items being sent from a manufacturer to a materials handling facility and then shipped to the customer it may be desirable for the manufacturer to hold on to such items and ship them to the customer directly. For example for some large heavy of bulky items it may be more economically viable to use this approach. In such cases scheduled delivery component may be configured to provide a drop shipper with an indication of when an item needs to be prepared for shipment. The scheduled delivery component may also provide an indication to a shipment carrier as to when such shipment needs to be delivered e.g. during the delivery window selected by the customer .

In various embodiments the scheduled delivery component may be configured to provide a calendaring service accessible to authorized agents such as customer service agents. The tools available through such calendaring service may be similar to those illustrated in . For example if a customer were to contact a customer service call center the call center agent would be able to utilize the calendar service to perform any delivery period changes on behalf of the customer.

In various embodiments techniques similar to those presented above may be utilized to schedule shipment pickups for items to be returned. For instance the user could log into an account with the electronic marketplace provided by network based content server s . One of the account s features may include one or more controls for scheduling a pickup such controls may be similar to those illustrated in . In these cases for a given scheduled pickup a respective shipment carrier may be notified of the pickup delivery period by the scheduled delivery component. In various embodiments the scheduled delivery component may be configured to obtain shipment carrier availability information for pickups in a manner similar to that described above with respect to obtaining delivery availability information for multiple shipment carriers.

In various embodiments users e.g. customers may track modify or cancel scheduled deliveries even after the shipment has been conveyed to the shipment carrier. For instance a user may submit a request to the network based content servers e.g. a request to track modify or cancel a scheduled delivery . The network based content servers may fulfill the request by communicating with the appropriate shipment carrier systems to complete the action specified by the request. For instance a request to track a scheduled delivery may result in the retrieval of information specifying the current location of the shipment. In another example a request to modify a scheduled delivery may result in the rescheduling of that delivery. In general the network based content servers may communicate with carrier systems to acquire any information relevant to a scheduled delivery on behalf of the user.

The system and method for scheduled delivery of shipments with multiple shipment carriers may include various methods examples of which are described in more detail below. In various embodiments the methods described herein may be performed by one or more computer systems such as the computer system described below with respect to . For instance the method may be implemented by one of such computer systems or by a group of computer systems operating in a coordinated and or distributed manner.

In some embodiments the method may include providing a network based user interface for submitting delivery availability information. For example the method may include providing a network based user interface in a manner similar to that described above with respect to the scheduled delivery component illustrates one example of such a user interface. Accordingly receiving delivery availability information may include receiving delivery availability information through such a network based user interface.

As illustrated by block the method may include for a given item offered in commerce e.g. an item offered for sale via the electronic marketplace or e commerce portal described above providing multiple selectable delivery periods based on the delivery availability information of the multiple shipment carriers. Each of the selectable delivery periods may indicate a time period of a given day during which at least one of the shipment carriers is available to deliver a shipment including the given item. For instance the method may include providing such delivery periods to a client system such as described above with respect to network based content server s . Another example of providing such selectable time periods may include scheduled delivery component providing delivery time periods to network based content server s . In various embodiments providing multiple selectable delivery periods may include providing the selectable delivery periods within network based content such as part of an item detail page or a scheduled delivery tool such as that illustrated with respect to . In various embodiments such network based content may include content representing an order completion process for purchasing the given item. For instance an order completion process may include using an electronic marketplace to purchase an item as described above . For example a user might indicate that an item is to be purchased by adding that item to an electronic shopping cart and providing payment and shipping details. In various embodiments any portion of an order completion process may include content representing multiple selectable delivery periods in accordance with the method.

As illustrated by block the method may include determining that one of the selectable delivery periods has been selected. For example if the selectable delivery periods were provided via a network based user interface e.g. the user interface of the method may include receiving a selection of one of the delivery periods through the same interface. In various embodiments determining that such a selection has been made may include receiving an indication of the selection from a computer system examples of which include network based content server s receiving such a selection from a client system or scheduled delivery component receiving an indication of such a selection from network based content server s .

In various embodiments the method may also include providing a delivery instruction that specifies the shipment including the given item is to be delivered by a particular shipment carrier during the selected delivery period. In various embodiments providing such a delivery instruction may include notifying the shipment carrier of the delivery period such as performed by the scheduled delivery component described above. In various embodiments providing such a delivery instruction may include generating a manifest that includes an indicating of a delivery period during which a shipment carrier is to deliver an item. As described above the manifest may specify one or more items to be shipped by the shipment carrier on a vehicle departing from a materials handling facility.

As described above in various embodiments multiple shipment carriers may be available to deliver a particular item during the selected time period. In such cases the method may include determining that the multiple shipment carriers are available to deliver the shipment during the selected time period. The method may also include comparing the costs associated with each shipment carrier. For instance the method may include determining that a cost associated with a particular shipment carrier delivering the shipment during the selected delivery period is less than a cost associated with the delivery of the shipment by one or more other shipment carriers. In various embodiments such costs may be specified by shipment carriers as delivery availability information e.g. a cost specified by control . In various embodiments the method may include providing the delivery instruction to that particular shipment carrier.

Various embodiments of a system and method for scheduled delivery of shipments with multiple shipment carriers as described herein may be executed on one or more computer systems which may interact with various other devices. Note that any component action or functionality described above with respect to may be implemented via one or more computer systems configured as computer system of according to various embodiments. In the illustrated embodiment computer system includes one or more processors coupled to a system memory via an input output I O interface . Computer system further includes a network interface coupled to I O interface and one or more input output devices such as cursor control device keyboard and display s . In some cases it is contemplated that embodiments may be implemented using a single instance of computer system while in other embodiments multiple such systems or multiple nodes making up computer system may be configured to host different portions or instances of embodiments. For example in one embodiment some elements may be implemented via one or more nodes of computer system that are distinct from those nodes implementing other elements. For instance one or more nodes might implement network based content server s and one or more other nodes might implement scheduled delivery component .

In various embodiments computer system may be a uniprocessor system including one processor or a multiprocessor system including several processors e.g. two four eight or another suitable number . Processors may be any suitable processor capable of executing instructions. For example in various embodiments processors may be general purpose or embedded processors implementing any of a variety of instruction set architectures ISAs such as the x86 PowerPC SPARC or MIPS ISAs or any other suitable ISA. In multiprocessor systems each of processors may commonly but not necessarily implement the same ISA.

System memory may be configured to store program instructions and or data accessible by processor . In various embodiments system memory may be implemented using any suitable memory technology such as static random access memory SRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM nonvolatile Flash type memory or any other type of memory. In the illustrated embodiment program instructions implementing scheduled delivery component configured as described above and DAI as described above are shown stored within system memory . Additionally data of memory may store any of the information or data structures described above in some embodiments. In some embodiments program instructions and or data may be received sent or stored upon different types of computer accessible media or on similar media separate from system memory or computer system . While computer system is illustrated as implementing the functionality of scheduled delivery component any of the components or systems illustrated above with respect to may be implemented via such a computer system.

In one embodiment I O interface may be configured to coordinate I O traffic between processor system memory and any peripheral devices in the device including network interface or other peripheral interfaces such as input output devices . In some embodiments I O interface may perform any necessary protocol timing or other data transformations to convert data signals from one component e.g. system memory into a format suitable for use by another component e.g. processor . In some embodiments I O interface may include support for devices attached through various types of peripheral buses such as a variant of the Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI bus standard or the Universal Serial Bus USB standard for example. In some embodiments the function of I O interface may be split into two or more separate components such as a north bridge and a south bridge for example. Also in some embodiments some or all of the functionality of I O interface such as an interface to system memory may be incorporated directly into processor .

Network interface may be configured to allow data to be exchanged between computer system and other devices e.g. any other component of as described above attached to a network which may be similar to or the same as network described above or between nodes of computer system . Network may in various embodiments include one or more networks including but not limited to Local Area Networks LANs e.g. an Ethernet or corporate network Wide Area Networks WANs e.g. the Internet wireless data networks some other electronic data network or some combination thereof. In various embodiments network interface may support communication via wired or wireless general data networks such as any suitable type of Ethernet network for example via telecommunications telephony networks such as analog voice networks or digital fiber communications networks via storage area networks such as Fibre Channel SANs or via any other suitable type of network and or protocol.

Input output devices may in some embodiments include one or more display terminals keyboards keypads touchpads scanning devices voice or optical recognition devices or any other devices suitable for entering or accessing data by one or more computer systems . Multiple input output devices may be present in computer system or may be distributed on various nodes of computer system . In some embodiments similar input output devices may be separate from computer system and may interact with one or more nodes of computer system through a wired or wireless connection such as over network interface .

As shown in memory may include program instructions configured to implement any element or action described above such as the functionality of scheduled delivery component . In one embodiment the program instructions may implement the methods described above such as the method illustrated by . In other embodiments different elements and data may be included. Note that data may include any data described above with respect to .

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that computer system is merely illustrative and is not intended to limit the scope of embodiments. In particular the computer system and devices may include any combination of hardware or software that can perform the indicated functions including computers network devices Internet appliances PDAs wireless phones pagers etc. Computer system may also be connected to other devices that are not illustrated or instead may operate as a stand alone system. In addition the functionality provided by the illustrated components may in some embodiments be combined in fewer components or distributed in additional components. Similarly in some embodiments the functionality of some of the illustrated components may not be provided and or other additional functionality may be available.

Those skilled in the art will also appreciate that while various items are illustrated as being stored in memory or on storage while being used these items or portions of them may be transferred between memory and other storage devices for purposes of memory management and data integrity. Alternatively in other embodiments some or all of the software components may execute in memory on another device and communicate with the illustrated computer system via inter computer communication. Some or all of the system components or data structures may also be stored e.g. as instructions or structured data on a computer accessible medium or a portable article to be read by an appropriate drive various examples of which are described above. In some embodiments instructions stored on a computer accessible medium separate from computer system may be transmitted to computer system via transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as a network and or a wireless link. Various embodiments may further include receiving sending or storing instructions and or data implemented in accordance with the foregoing description upon a computer accessible medium. Generally speaking a computer accessible medium may include a storage medium or memory medium such as magnetic or optical media e.g. disk or DVD CD ROM volatile or non volatile media such as RAM e.g. SDRAM DDR RDRAM SRAM etc. ROM etc. In some embodiments a computer accessible medium may include transmission media or signals such as electrical electromagnetic or digital signals conveyed via a communication medium such as network and or a wireless link.

The methods described herein may be implemented in software hardware or a combination thereof in different embodiments. In addition the order of the blocks of the methods may be changed and various elements may be added reordered combined omitted modified etc. Various modifications and changes may be made as would be obvious to a person skilled in the art having the benefit of this disclosure. The various embodiments described herein are meant to be illustrative and not limiting. Many variations modifications additions and improvements are possible. Accordingly plural instances may be provided for components described herein as a single instance. Boundaries between various components operations and data stores are somewhat arbitrary and particular operations are illustrated in the context of specific illustrative configurations. Other allocations of functionality are envisioned and may fall within the scope of claims that follow. Finally structures and functionality presented as discrete components in the exemplary configurations may be implemented as a combined structure or component. These and other variations modifications additions and improvements may fall within the scope of embodiments as defined in the claims that follow.

