---

title: Booking system and method
abstract: A method enabling owners of websites to monetize their local listings by implementing online bookings, reservations or orders using an interactive voice recognition (IVR) system. A user of a web-based interface requests a booking or order by entering parameters, for example, name of the restaurant, number of people, date and time. The software of the present invention calls the restaurants telephone using the IVR and confirms or rejects (refuses) the booking. The invention allows for the payment of commissions for originating or facilitation of bookings or orders or the registration of participating restaurants. The booking service is paid by the restaurant for successful bookings. Credit is made for cancelled or no-show bookings. The invention includes a loyalty points system that rewards frequent users of the booking service.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09324083&OS=09324083&RS=09324083
owner: 
number: 09324083
owner_city: Paddington NSW
owner_country: AU
publication_date: 20100510
---
The present United States patent application is a continuation in part from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 990 474. Any discussion of the prior art throughout the specification should in no way be considered as an admission that such prior art is widely known or forms part of the common general knowledge in the field.

The present invention relates generally to computerized booking and order systems including customer loyalty programs.

More specifically the present invention relates to using an interactive voice recognition system connected to the Internet for making a booking or order. However it will be appreciated that the invention is not limited to this particular field of use.

The present invention is disclosed with reference to making reservation bookings at a restaurant. It will be understood that this is provided by way of example and that the invention may be applied to any industry or target businesses where appointments bookings or orders are made. Examples of such industries include hairdressers hotels and other forms of accommodation doctors and dentists and retail outlets having little or no Internet presence or who don t already have e commerce capabilities.

The Internet has a large number of web sites search engines and directories of information regarding restaurants. The information may include location type of cuisine cost atmosphere or a rating by customers or a critic. While these support Internet users in selecting a desirable restaurant none of these sites engines or directories has a satisfactory way of facilitating online bookings. Instead restaurants are approached by a number of advertising proposals for various promotional or business building media. These include preferred listing in search engines or directories links to and from related sites banner advertisements in web browser screens and others. These media however provide no guarantee to the restaurant of the return they will receive.

There have been some attempts to provide on line booking systems for restaurants. These systems however have relied on e mail or fax communications with the restaurant except for a few US and UK sites such as opentable.com or toptable.co.uk that have convinced the restaurants to invest in specialised and sometimes expensive hardware and software that allows them to take fully automated online bookings. The other method requires that the restaurant frequently check for booking requests a situation which is a change for most restaurants that rely on telephone answer machine or fax machine messages. E mail and fax systems are also not well set up to communicate back to the customer either to confirm or refuse the booking request. At least one on line booking web site requires a restaurant to allocate a certain number of seats per night to be filled by on line bookings. This however has proven to be impractical for many businesses and has been adopted only by large restaurants that can allocate a regular number of tables.

What is needed is an online booking system that allows the customer to make booking requests on line and receive an immediate confirmation. In the case of a booking rejection the system would allow the customer to select alternate parameters date time etc. for the same restaurant to accept as an alternative or to select another restaurant. The system would communicate with the restaurant using the telephone and integrates with the existing booking systems already established at the restaurant. Finally the restaurant would pay the booking service only for at least successful bookings.

It is an object of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of the disadvantages of the prior art or to provide a useful alternative.

It is therefore the object of the present invention to provide an on line booking system allowing Internet users to request a booking and receive a confirmation while on line or via email. It is a further object to allow a restaurant to register for the service and pay for successful bookings through the service.

It is a further object of the present invention to use an IVR system for communication with the requested restaurant to allow the restaurant to accept or refuse the user s booking request.

It is another object to provide alternative communication pathways such as a call centre to the restaurant and to the user in the event the IVR pathway is not available.

It is an alternate object of the present invention to provide a value add proposition for web sites that assist in the deployment of the Booking Angel system allowing web sited to retain users build content and increase volume.

It is a yet further object of the present invention to provide a loyalty system for regular customers of the service.

It is an additional object of the present invention to allow customers to provide feedback to the restaurant possibly in exchange for loyalty points or product or service coupons or other consideration.

According to an aspect of the invention there is provided a method for a web site to enable a user of the web site to make a reservation request for the benefit of the user the web site coupled to a database having one or more data records each indicative of a venue the method comprising the steps of 

According to an aspect of the invention there is provided a user access interface for a processor device the processor device being couplable to a database having one or more data records each indicative of a venue the processor device being adapted to render a web page the interface comprising a control module adapted to 

Upon publishing the web page in response to the user requesting the web page the web page is preferably updated dynamically by a web server to incorporate the first web link. Alternatively in response to the user requesting the web page the web page is preferably dynamically rendered by a web browser to incorporate the first web link.

Preferably the first candidate reference to the first venue is a telephone number including area code or reference ID. More preferably the first candidate reference is maintained within an accessible dataset or database .

Preferably if the first data record is obtained the web page is updated automatically to have a first web link associated with the first venue for requesting a reservation.

Preferably the web page is dynamically parsed and amended by a code module operatively associated with the web page thereby to incorporate the first web link.

According to an aspect of the invention there is provided a system to enable a user of a web site to make a reservation request for the benefit of the user the system comprising 

Updating the web page is preferably performed dynamically by a web server when publishing the web page in response to the user requesting the web page. Alternatively updating the web page is preferably performed dynamically by a web browser when rendering the web page in response to the user requesting the web page.

Preferably the reservation data comprises a name of the venue a date and time of requested reservation a name of the user and contact details of the user. More preferably the reservation data pertains to an order and the reservation data comprises details of an item ordered.

Preferably the database comprises register records each indicative of a registered user. More preferably the reservation data further comprises personal information of the user for checking against register records for confirming registration of the user.

Preferably reservation request includes any one or more of the following a meeting request booking request and an order request 

Preferably the database has one or more data records each indicative of a venue including any one or more venues 

Under directions communicated by the telephone connection from the IVR facility a telephone keypad is preferably used for providing confirmation of acceptance or rejection of the request.

According to a further aspect of the invention there is provided a computer program product stored on a computer usable medium the computer program product adapted to provide a method of for a web site to enable a user of the web site to make a reservation request as herein described.

According to a further aspect of the invention there is provided a computer readable medium for operation with a processor device the computer readable medium comprising computer code for executing a method comprising the steps of a method of for a web site to enable a user of the web site to make a reservation request as herein described.

According to a further aspect of the invention there is provided an on line booking method herein referred to as the Booking Angel which allows an Internet user after selecting a restaurant to request a booking enter desired date time number and other information. The booking request is communicated to the restaurant using an interactive voice response IVR system and booking confirmation or refusal is input by using the keys on the phone. This is communicated back to the user while still on line or sent via email or SMS. The restaurant registers for the Booking Angel service and pays for successful reservations booked through the service. Booking Angel has a customer relationship management system attached to it that manages all customer interactions from sign up ongoing maintenance through to billing and reporting. The system integrates with a call centre and allows communication with restaurants and users via fax email phone SMS post and IVR.

The invention is a computerized services implemented to assist businesses in attracting and communicating with customers. While the description below uses restaurants as an example the invention can also be used to assist other retail and service business types.

The invention or Booking Angel is a subscription booking service for restaurants. The registration process may include the payment of a one time or subscription fee. Once registered the restaurant will receive on line booking requests via IVR telephone and will pay a fee for successful bookings.

The Booking Angel interacts with an Internet user who desires to make a booking with a subscribed restaurant. The user may reach the Booking Angel web site in a number of ways. These include going directly to the Booking Angel web site or by clicking on a link to the Booking Angel web site. The links to the Booking Angel web site may be placed in another web site for example web sites for city search type services restaurants newspapers and magazines or in general search engine web sites such as YAHOO or GOOGLE. Referring now to . This illustrates an overview of Booking Angel processing . A web site for a partner web site is shown as the starting point for a restaurant booking. The Internet user of this web site selects parameters for a list of possible restaurants based on location cuisine price etc. The list of matching restaurants is displayed to the user for selection. Each entry gives information about the listed restaurant such as restaurant address and phone number. It also includes hyperlinks to additional information about the entry. For example links to the restaurant s web site to send an e mail to the restaurant to show a map and directions etc. For subscribed restaurants a link Book a table is available which when clicked prompts the user for requested date time number of people and other information . This data is sent to the Booking Angel system . The Booking Angel combines this data with information contained in a database and creates a voice message . This voice message is used by the IVR to call the selected restaurant s reservation phone number . The staff at the restaurant answers the phone and hears the voice message and is prompted to accept or refuse the booking by touching keys on the phone s keypad. The staff response is received by the Booking Angel system and sends information back to the user in the form of data streams and preferences .

The users must be registered in order to use the Booking Angel. Registration typically is at no cost to the user. During registration the Booking Angel will collect personal and preference data from the user and store it in a database. A registered user will be assigned a user name and a password that will be used for all bookings made by the user. The personal data collected includes contact name phone numbers e mail address and booking preferences for example the name of favourite restaurants and parameters for booking such as time day of week and number in the party. The database of registered users may also be used to record an accumulation of loyalty points which reward users for making booking using the Booking Angel. Trend data may also be extracted from the information collected. By analysing where people are booking the system will be able to infer the most popular restaurants in any geographical region. This can be combined with the user ratings to give an indication of the best restaurants in an area or of a particular cuisine style. By looking at individual booking trends you may be able to make suggestions of restaurants that a user is likely to enjoy.

For example trend data may show that people who visit restaurants A and B also visit restaurant C. So if an individual has already visited restaurant A and B you may be able to suggest restaurant C. The Booking Angel is a web site providing reservation services. Links to the Booking Angel are located in other web sites. For example a web site providing city search type functions e.g. locating theatres events clubs as well as restaurants would include links to the Booking Angel on web pages detailing one or more restaurants matching the search criteria.

If the restaurant is open for bookings and the restaurant is registered the restaurant is called using the interactive voice response IVR . If the phone line is engaged or no answer the booking request is added to the offline queue for a later attempt and the user is notified. If the phone is answered by a human operator an IVR message containing the booking details are played and the human operator is given choices to accept reschedule or refuse the booking. This is done by touching keys on the telephone keypad in response to prompts from the IVR.

If the booking request is accepted the user is notified . If the user is still online viewing the Booking Angel web page the user is given a confirmation message. If the user is no longer online at the Booking Angel web site the user is notified by e mail sms or telephone message using contact information contained in the database of registered users . The details of the booking are entered into the database of registered users for later processing. If the booking request is accepted with a new date or time the user is notified as above. If the booking request is refused the user is notified as above.

The database of registered users and the database of registered restaurants are used to record the results of the booking calculate and award loyalty points for the user and calculate and bill the restaurant. illustrates one embodiment of these uses of the databases . The database of registered users may be used to send the user a booking reminder . At the time of making the booking the user may request a reminder a number of days or hours before the booking by e mail or telephone message IVR or short messaging service SMS . The reminder requests are stored in the database of registered users and are triggered at the requested time.

The restaurant notifies the Booking Angel for example by phone fax or e mail of the result of the booking. If the booking was successful that is the user came to the restaurant at the time of the booking and ordered then the user may earn loyalty points which are stored in the database of registered users. These loyalty points may be exchanged for goods or services according to the loyalty program details. Loyalty points may also be used in exchange for Booking Angel services for example expedited bookings reminder messages or preferential seating. The user may also be sent by e mail a satisfaction or comment survey for the restaurant. Loyalty points may be given the user when they complete the survey.

If the restaurant reports that the user failed to show for the booking the user is notified and a record is made in the database of registered users. This record may be used to penalize or disqualify the offending user for example deducting loyalty points or refusing to permit future booking request based on a number of no show results.

If the restaurant notifies the Booking Angel that the user has cancelled the booking the database of registered users is updated accordingly.

The Booking Angel service is paid by the restaurant for each successful booking. This process is illustrated in . For each booking cancellation or dispute the restaurant is notified by e mail. If there is not e mail address for the restaurant in the database of registered restaurants nothing is sent. If the restaurant balance is below a threshold say 7.00 the restaurant is billed a fixed amount say 29.50. The threshold is set by the Booking Angel and is typically the same for all registered restaurants. The fixed billing amount may be different for different restaurants. For example a restaurant with a large number of Booking Angel bookings may wish to have a higher fixed amount. The Booking Angel bills the restaurant s credit or debit card or direct debit out of a bank account the fixed amount. If the payment is rejected the Booking Angel call centre will follow up with the restaurant for payment or may remove the restaurant from the list of registered restaurants preventing future bookings. If the payment is authorized a confirmation is sent by fax or e mail if available. Each quarter a detailed report of all booking and billing transactions is sent to the restaurant. The restaurant may also receive other reports for example the distribution of bookings by post code.

The Booking Angel may also pay commissions for people or web sites that refer users to the Booking Angel. illustrates the process of paying commissions. A fixed number of days after the end of a month say 10 days which allows time for disputes to be resolved the successful bookings for the month are extracted from the database of user or restaurants . These transactions are examined to determine which site or person referred the user to the Booking Angel. A commission is calculated for each referring person or web site . Taxes on the commissions are calculated and withheld or paid to the taxing authority. If the commission amount is less than a threshold say 10 then the commissions are held until the threshold is reached . Commissions more then the threshold including accumulated held amounts are paid by a batch payment facility . Notification of payment is sent by e mail to the referring person or web site .

The Booking Angel may also award loyalty points to users. illustrates one embodiment of this process. Loyalty points are earned when bookings are made and are made available five days after the booked date to allow the restaurant to report if the user kept the booking or not. If the user returns the satisfaction or comment survey points are awarded and available immediately on receipt of the survey. A number of points may be fixed say five points for the survey or may vary based on criteria such as number of questions answered or comments included. The user may redeem loyalty points for goods or services at a restaurant . In this case the restaurant puts together an offer and assigns a number of points needed. Points may also be used for reminder messages or other extra services . The number of loyalty points earned may also be used by the Booking Angel to give a user additional privilege access authority or priority .

One embodiment of the use of restaurant satisfaction or comment survey is illustrated in . A fixed time say 1 hour after the booking time an e mail is sent to the user requesting completion of a survey . The user confirms that the booking took place and a fixed number of loyalty points say 25 are immediately awarded. If the restaurant reports that the user did not appear for the booking the loyalty points may be retracted depending on the resolution of the dispute. A fixed number of points say 25 is offered for completion of the survey. The survey asks the user to rate the restaurant on a scale for categories such as food service atmosphere value etc . The survey includes a place to provide comments if desired . The comments and ratings are returned to the Booking Angel and they may be made available to the restaurants . The number of loyalty points for each user may be made available . In addition the survey form may include comments about the Booking Angel service. These comments may be used to improve the service or to provide testimonials on the Booking Angel web site .

The Booking Angel is paid by the restaurants based on the number of bookings made using the Booking Angel service. Restaurants must be registered and agree to pay for each booking made. illustrates one embodiment of this process. A user may request a booking at a restaurant that is not yet registered. To allow this each restaurant is granted a fixed number say two free bookings . When a second booking is made for an unregistered restaurant the Booking Angel call centre contacts the restaurant for registration and payment details . If unable to contact the restaurant a follow up for the day after the booking is scheduled . Once the free bookings are exhausted a last booking is allowed for example to allow for the case where the owner is not available. After the last free booking is used the restaurant is taken off the system until registration is complete. If the registration is not completed or if the restaurant declines to be registered no further actions with the restaurant is taken or allowed .

If the restaurant is registered they pay by credit card or direct debit a fixed one time fee say 10 and a credit balance amount say 29.50 which is debited to pay for each successful booking. If the payment is declined the call centre will follow up and two more bookings will be permitted . If the payment is approved the restaurant is registered and available for bookings. Each booking call is recorded and billed according to a schedule for example no charge for a call not answered 1.00 for a call answered by a machine 1.00 for a call answered and the booking is refused 5.90 for a booking accepted. There is no charge for an incomplete call. At the end of each call tax is added to the call charge and subtracted from the credit balance. When the credit balance is below a threshold the restaurant credit card or direct debit is charged a fixed amount added to the credit balance.

If the booking is cancelled by the user or restaurant the restaurant is credited the amount charged for the booking. illustrates one embodiment of this process. If the booking is cancelled by the user using the web site the restaurant is called using the IVR . If successful the amount charged for the booking say 5.90 is credited including any tax amount . If the IVR message was not delivered for example engaged or no answer the call is re queued . If re queued a number of times say four times the restaurant is credited the booking fee including tax . A record is made of the cancellation so any dispute can be resolved. If the booking is cancelled by the restaurant through the call centre a confirmation e mail is sent to the user . The user may confirm the cancellation or after a number of days say three the booking fee and tax are credited.

The Booking Angel also allows for promotional bookings. illustrates one embodiment of this process. These are credits given to restaurants as rewards for continued service when a threshold of bookings is reached etc. These credits are used before any charges are debited from the restaurant credit balance . Promotional bookings are not included in the calculation for any commissions .

Commissions are paid as a percentage of fees paid to the Booking Angel service. illustrates one embodiment of this process. The percentage paid may vary depending on the customer or organization originating or facilitating the booking . Web sites may be paid a commission for bookings made through links from their web site to the Booking Angel web site . Web sites may also be paid a commission for originating or facilitating the registering of a restaurant .

The Booking Angel provides a web based interactive booking system for the customer and an IVR telephone interface for the restaurant. This is an advantage over current art.

In an embodiment implementing a Booking Angel system can be made relatively easily and hassle free by a website owner.

Site owner typically provides Booking Angel system with data indicative of one or more restaurants to be activated. Data indicative of a restaurant to be activated can include restaurant name restaurant address restaurant phone number. More details can be provided if available including website URL contact name restaurant website URL restaurant email address restaurant fax restaurant opening hours etc. Preferably the data format is csv or other standardised tabular format. Opening hours can be provided in separate fields that can be queried by a database. Appropriate hours for calling a restaurant can also useful particularly if these times are different form their opening hours. Typically fast food chains and restaurants known to not take reservations are excluded.

By way of example Restaurant A may be open for breakfast on weekends lunch Monday through Friday and dinner every night except Monday. A tabular data format indicative of opening times for this restaurant can be represented as best shown in . Alternatively if opening hours are not provided it may be inferred that the restaurant is open for lunch and dinner every day.

Site owner can further provide data indicative of which restaurants have an existing billing relationship with the website.

A restaurants can be activated within the booking angel systems and a web link provided for bookings. The web can be provided in a format that a web site developers can include in a web page wherever a link may be required. A calendar widget or other suitable way of linking to a booking page can be developed. A branded reserve now button or calendar can be developed and provided to fit in with the look and feel of a respective web site.

In this example a link can be identified by the restaurants telephone number including country code and area code whereby a restaurant in America with the phone number 310 456 7890 may have a book now link in the form of 

Receiving data indicative of booking access can be achieved by using a tracking .gif image file and or asynchronous JavaScript. This can be implemented on each page where the booking link appears to enable monitoring of click through rates for maximize improve the number of bookings. The .gif image file can also have a link identifier related to the phone number. To reduce any effect of caching the link identifier may further include a number indicative of date and or time. By way of example only a .gif image file link identifier can include 

In an embodiment after receiving data indicative of one or more restaurants and enabling the restaurants within the booking system access can be provided to data indicative of activated restaurants. By way of example only an xml feed of phone numbers of all the restaurants activated within the booking system can be provided. This xml feed or web service can further comprise variables associated with each phone number including an one or more of signed active and or inactive. A website developers can set up a process for updating the data at regular interval preferably at least every 24 hours or more preferably as often as practical. Based in the content of this feed selected booking links can be activated and inactivated for particular restaurants. Typically the web server IP addresses is required to enable access to the feed.

In an embodiment signed up restaurants can be given priority over other restaurants. It will be appreciated that signed up restaurants can provide direct commission upon each booking.

It will be appreciated that a trial booking system can be implemented and tested on a staging environment to confirm the updating process is operating correctly and that the integration is acceptable.

In an embodiment customized branding can also be provided. A Booking Angel system is typically branded with BookingAngel.com . Booking Angel can further provide customized branding can across various areas of the restaurant web site.

In an embodiment confirmation emails sent to users and or restaurants are sent from a Booking Angel system. Co branding can also be included in these emails. The e mails sent by a Booking Angel system may further include cross promotional advertising material.

In an embodiment when a booking angel system server makes an outbound call to a restaurant and receives an answering machine it leaves a message advising the restaurant that someone has attempted to make a reservation and to call back on a specific phone number to retrieve the information. When the restaurant calls Booking Angel the reservation request is relayed to the restaurant for their acceptance and or rejections. A customized number can also be setup with various options branded with details of a web site company but managed by Booking Angel.

In an embodiment a centralised call centre can be operated 24 hours a day and 7 days a week. This call centre can provide support to restaurants receiving calls that hang up on a call or opt to speak to a live agent. The agents can be setup to answer the phone and to capture information from the restaurant. This can involve a setup fee a monthly fee and or a per minute per call fee. Some customization of a call script can also be made.

In an embodiment a booking angel system can further provide administration web pages. Restaurant can access and update their profile including opening hours contact details special notes etc.

In an embodiment a booking angel system server can also authenticate new sign ups to a listing sits. When a restaurants claim or registers a new listing the booking angel system server can be provided or informed of the restaurants details and include validation step that automatically call the restaurant phone number provided to validate the phone number matched the restaurant. When a restaurants initiates a listing in a web site or updates a profile the booking angel system server can process the data by automatically calling the restaurants phone number provided to confirm details.

In an embodiment a booking angel system can be integrated with a customer relationship management system. By way of example only the booking angel system can be integrated with Sales force. Access to the management system can be organized by customized logins for each agent IP address or via email. By integrating with particular phone numbers hot leads can be delivered and restaurants can be immediately signed up upon receiving a booking.

In an embodiment a booking angel system can provide an automated marketing system. This system can send auto responders to restaurants upon the occurrence of particular events including a first reservation a third reservation in certain areas etc.

In an embodiment a booking angel system can provides an API development for reporting billing or integration with existing systems.

Referring to an embodiment implementation of an online XML schema can be integrated with a website directory. A website can download the XML feed or schema of restaurants that are enabled and matching the XML records with listings in their website typically based upon phone number and using the appropriate reservation web link. This step of matching and selecting links enable the directory to directly monetize or derive income from a directory listings website through commissions earned and leads closed.

In an embodiment a plurality of links to respective XML schema can be provided or published. Access to any XML schema can be restricted to on the basis of the IP address of the requesting server. It will be appreciated that a plurality of XML schemas can be published.

By way of example it is possible to access restaurant data by an XML schema by any combination of country state and time since you last fetched the xml data. For example 

In an embodiment by way of example only an initial import or manual download of an XML schema the file can be reconciled automatically or manually with business rules associated with the web site. An automatic process can fetch updates to the XML data.

It will be appreciated that dates and times associated with the XML feed can be server local time for example are Australian Eastern Standard Time. If accessing a change file any record accessed has been amended in some way. Local rules can be implemented to update the site database with more up to date data. It is preferably that a site updates whether the restaurant should be displayed based upon the XML Tag or possibly promoted based on a tag indicating as these restaurants can directly earn income of the site .

In an embodiment by way of example only a web service can also be provided. For example http service.bookingangel.com ws RestaurantList.php WSDL . This has the following public method available public function getRestaurants country state lastRetrievedTime . Wherein param string country is the full name of the country param string state is the full name of the state param string lastRetrievedTime is an SQL compatible date time and return Restaurant is an array of objects. Each Restaurant object can be defined as having var string name var string phone var string phoneAreaCode var string phoneCountryCode var string email var string website var boolean signed var boolean display var string bookingLink var string imageLink var RestaurantContact contacts var RestaurantAddress addresses. Wherein RestaurantAddress is an array of objects each comprising var string streetAddress var string suburb var string state var string country var string postcode. Wherein RestaurantContact is an array of objects each comprising var string type var boolean primary var string firstName var string lastName.

Referring to a system can comprise a first server including a storage device a web server for publishing pages having details of one or more venues and first program module for providing access to an online booking. The server is coupled to a data network . It will be appreciated that the first server can be a distributed computing device.

A client is coupled to the data network and is adapted to execute a web browser program for requesting and displaying a web page . By way of example access to an online booking is provided via the client displayed web page .

In an embodiment the program module can query an a data store comprising data records indicative of venues query an external database comprising data records indicative of venues. Online booking can be accessed by way of a predetermined web link or an associatable web application or applet . The web server or automatic process can use the first program module to pre parse and update web pages or dynamically parse and update web pages at publication of the page.

In an embodiment the first candidate reference to the first venue is a telephone number including area code or reference ID wherein the first candidate reference is maintained within an accessible dataset or database . If the first data record is obtained the web page is updated automatically and or dynamically to have a first web link associated with the first venue for requesting a reservation.

In an alternative embodiment as a client web browser program fetches a web page the first program module is operative associated with the published page to dynamically providing access to an online booking as the page is rendered at a client. Upon fetching a page the first program module parses the page for candidate references to venues e.g. phone numbers and then queries a database to retrieve relevant data records indicative of the venue. Upon confirmation that a candidate reference is a venue to be displayed the first program module can display a booking link in place of the respective reference. The booking link can be accessed by way of a predetermined web link or an associatable web application or applet .

In an embodiment access to an online booking can be provided via the client displayed web page by accessing a web link to a predetermined booking page. This booking page can be published by the web server or more preferably by a remote booking server via a respective web server . Alternatively the displayed web page can be operatively associated with a web application or applet that enables the user to directly enter booking details. The web application receives data indicative of the booking details and transmits the data via a data network to the booking server .

In an embodiment the booking server is adapted to receive data indicative of a requested booking. An interactive voice response IVR module used to communicate with a venue via a telephone to arrange or confirm a booking. Upon acceptance or rejection of the booking request the client is advised. Typically the client is advised via email or telephone.

By way of example the booking server can calculate and store analytic data associated with each booking.

Referring to a customer relationship management CRM server can be coupled to the data network . The booking server can provide analytic data to the customer relationship management server for managing and nurturing interactions between venues and or clients in respect of sales and marketing prospects. In this example a venue can include a computer to retrieving analytic data or interacting with the customer relationship management server .

In an embodiment by way of example only a dynamic implementation can be employed. A code module operating in conjunction within the web page for example Javascript or other forms of DHTML . In this example the website associates or inserts a code module with or within a published web page. The code module can be executed in conjunction with publishing the web page or by the browser when displaying the web page. As this example code module is associated with the publication or presentation of a web page it can also be used in calculating or collecting real time analytic data from one or more websites. This real time data can be further used to deliver sales leads validate user reviews and infer user preferences.

It will be appreciated that integration of the system is made relatively easier for a website owner or developer by associating a code module with a web page publication thereby enabling reservations to be booked online via a centralised IVR system. Dynamic integration also facilitates up to date information being presented.

By integrating an applet with a published web page an identified and enabled link can initiate execution of the applet to receive and or collect booking information data from within the website. The collected booking data can be sent to a centralised IVR enabled booking system. It will be appreciated that this web page presentation provides and online reservation system via

It will be appreciated that this can provide a method and systems for monetizing business listings on the internet. Secondary benefits can include 

It will be appreciated that many of the benefits are further accentuated by the system centralising booking functions across a plurality of websites or web based internet directories. Further by being accessible to a plurality of websites or web based internet directories more reservations and validated ratings can be processed.

It will be appreciated that the disclosed system can be used for booking reservation and order items at or from venues.

It will be appreciated that a website blog and or directory style website which lists venue or business information for example like Citysearch.com or YellowPages.com can enable an online booking reservation functionality Already having business names addresses and phone numbers listed on the site in order for them to enable a booking system on their site a first program module in the form of java script applet can be incorporated into each web page across the site. This java script code parses the page to identify candidate phone numbers. These candidate phone numbers are matched against numbers enabled within the booking system as accepting reservations. This can be achieved by querying a database for matches against one or more candidate phone numbers. The JavaScript is adapted to upon confirming a match displaying a book now button or link on the page next to or over the phone number. An API s can be provided to customising integration of the website with the booking system.

It will be appreciated that billing arrangements associated with each venue can be maintained within the database. A venue may be associated with many billing arrangements. For example a venue may have a billing relationship with one or more web sites and or the billing server.

Alternatively the venue may have no current or recorded billing arrangement. These venues may be entered into the billing system by obtaining or maintaining a listing of all known venues within a class. These venues can be confirmed upon entry into the system or upon first direct exposure to the booking system. The class of venue may also be recorded such that upon display of booking information a different booking form may be displayed.

It will be appreciated that a user navigating to a web page can select click on a book now button which without opening a new browser window displays a booking form thereby enabling the user to stay at the original website. The booking form can allowing the user to select a desired time date number of people and any other booking preferences. This information can then be transmitted by an Application Programming Interface API via a data network to the booking server. The booking server received the data indicative of a booking details and employs an Interactive Voice Response System IVR to call the desired venue deliver the reservation details and receive a acceptance rejection to the reservation via pressing keys on their phone or speech recognition. The user who made the reservation request can then informed of the reservation outcome via email or SMS.

It will be appreciated that the disclosed method enables owners of a websites to monetize their local listings by implementing online bookings reservations or orders using an interactive voice recognition IVR system.

It would be appreciated that some of the embodiments are described herein as a method or combination of elements of a method that can be implemented by a processor of a computer system or by other means of carrying out the function. Thus a processor with the necessary instructions for carrying out such a method or element of a method forms a means for carrying out the method or element of a method. Furthermore an element described herein of an apparatus embodiment is an example of a means for carrying out the function performed by the element for the purpose of carrying out the invention.

In alternative embodiments the one or more processors operate as a standalone device or may be connected e.g. networked to other processor s in a networked deployment the one or more processors may operate in the capacity of a server or a client machine in server client network environment or as a peer machine in a peer to peer or distributed network environment.

Thus one embodiment of each of the methods described herein is in the form of a computer readable carrier medium carrying a set of instructions e.g. a computer program that are for execution on one or more processors.

Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussions it is appreciated that throughout the specification discussions utilizing terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like can refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulate and or transform data represented as physical such as electronic quantities into other data similarly represented as physical quantities.

In a similar manner the term processor may refer to any device or portion of a device that processes electronic data e.g. from registers and or memory to transform that electronic data into other electronic data that e.g. may be stored in registers and or memory. A computer or a computing machine or a computing platform may include one or more processors.

The methodologies described herein are in one embodiment performable by one or more processors that accept computer readable also called machine readable code containing a set of instructions that when executed by one or more of the processors carry out at least one of the methods described herein. Any processor capable of executing a set of instructions sequential or otherwise that specify actions to be taken is included.

Unless the context clearly requires otherwise throughout the description and the claims the words comprise comprising and the like are to be construed in an inclusive sense as opposed to an exclusive or exhaustive sense that is to say in the sense of including but not limited to .

Similarly it is to be noticed that the term coupled when used in the claims should not be interpreted as being limitative to direct connections only. The terms coupled and connected along with their derivatives may be used. It should be understood that these terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. Thus the scope of the expression a device A coupled to a device B should not be limited to devices or systems wherein an output of device A is directly connected to an input of device B. It means that there exists a path between an output of A and an input of B which may be a path including other devices or means. Coupled may mean that two or more elements are either in direct physical or electrical contact or that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other.

As used herein unless otherwise specified the use of the ordinal adjectives first second third etc. to describe a common object merely indicate that different instances of like objects are being referred to and are not intended to imply that the objects so described must be in a given sequence either temporally spatially in ranking or in any other manner.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment but may refer to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner as would be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art from this disclosure in one or more embodiments.

Similarly it should be appreciated that in the above description of exemplary embodiments of the invention various features of the invention are sometimes grouped together in a single embodiment figure or description thereof for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure and aiding in the understanding of one or more of the various inventive aspects. This method of disclosure however is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed invention requires more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive aspects lie in less than all features of a single foregoing disclosed embodiment. Thus the claims following the Detailed Description are hereby expressly incorporated into this Detailed Description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment of this invention.

Furthermore while some embodiments described herein include some but not other features included in other embodiments combinations of features of different embodiments are meant to be within the scope of the invention and form different embodiments as would be understood by those in the art. For example in the following claims any of the claimed embodiments can be used in any combination.

In the description provided herein numerous specific details are set forth. However it is understood that embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods structures and techniques have not been shown in detail in order not to obscure an understanding of this description. Although the invention has been described with reference to specific examples it will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the invention may be embodied in many other forms.

