---

title: System for sending internet based content to a media device through a mobile phone
abstract: A method for sending content to a media device. The method comprises receiving a request by a mobile phone for content, the mobile phone including an antenna effective to communicate with a base station or a satellite. The method comprises sending the request from the mobile phone over the Internet to a content server. The request further comprises receiving the request at the content server; sending the request to a memory; receiving the content from the memory and sending the content from the content server to the mobile phone. The method further comprises receiving the content from the content server at the mobile phone; sending at least some of the content from the mobile phone to a media device; receiving the at least some of the content at the media device; and outputting the content on the media device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09210233&OS=09210233&RS=09210233
owner: FLIPPS MEDIA AD
number: 09210233
owner_city: 
owner_country: BG
publication_date: 20100126
---
This disclosure relates to a system and method for enabling content to be sent from the Internet through a mobile phone to a media device.

Referring to there is shown a prior art system effective to display images. In system a user may use a mobile phone for a variety of applications including both voice and data communications. As mobile phones have evolved to include more applications and data storage most current phones can display images on a display . This disclosure describes improvements over these prior art systems.

One embodiment of the invention is a method for sending content to a media device. The method comprises receiving a request by a mobile phone for content the mobile phone including an antenna effective to communicate with a base station or a satellite. The method further comprises sending the request from the mobile phone over the Internet to a content server receiving the content from the content server at the mobile phone and sending at least some of the content from the mobile phone to a media device.

Another embodiment of the invention is a mobile phone effective to send content to a media device. The mobile phone comprises a processor and an antenna in communication with the processor the antenna effective to communicate with a base station or a satellite and a memory in communication with the processor. The processor is effective to receive a request for content send the request from the mobile phone over the Internet to a content server receive the content from the content server and send at least some of the content from the mobile phone to a media device.

Yet another embodiment of the invention is a method for sending content to a media device. The method comprises receiving a request by a mobile phone for content the mobile phone including an antenna effective to communicate with a base station or a satellite. The method further comprises sending the request from the mobile phone over the Internet to a content server receiving the request at the content server and sending the request from the content server to a memory. The method further comprises receiving the content from the memory at the content server sending the content from the content server to the mobile phone and receiving the content from the content server at the mobile phone. The method further comprises sending at least some of the content from the mobile phone to a media device receiving the at least some of the content at the media device and outputting the content on the media device.

Still yet another embodiment of the invention is a system for sending content to a media device. The system comprises a mobile phone a content server in communication with the mobile phone and a mobile device in communication with the mobile phone. The mobile phone includes a processor an antenna in communication with the processor the antenna effective to communicate with a base station or a satellite and a memory in communication with the processor. The processor is effective to receive a request for content send the request from the mobile phone over the Internet to the content server the content server including a memory in communication with the content server. The content server is effective to receive the request send the request to the memory receive the content from the memory and send the content to the mobile phone. The processor is further effective to receive the content from the content server send at least some of the content from the mobile phone to the media device. The media device effective to receive the at least some of the content and output the at least some of the content.

Yet another embodiment of the invention is a computer storage medium having computer executable instructions stored thereon which when executed by a computing device adapt the computing device to perform a method for sending content to a media device. The method comprises receiving a request by a mobile phone for content the mobile phone including an antenna effective to communicate with a base station or a satellite. The method further comprises sending the request from the mobile phone over the Internet to a content server receiving the content from the content server at the mobile phone and sending at least some of the content from the mobile phone to a media device.

Various embodiments of the invention are described hereinafter with reference to the figures. Elements of like structures or function are represented with like reference numerals throughout the figures. The figures are only intended to facilitate the description of the invention or as a guide on the scope of the invention. In addition an aspect described in conjunction with a particular embodiment of the invention is not necessarily limited to that embodiment and can be practiced in conjunction with any other embodiments of the invention.

Referring to there is shown a system in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. As discussed in more detail below in system a user may use a mobile device phone to request output of content . The request may be sent over a network to a content server . In response to the request content server sends content to mobile phone . Phone may then send content over another network to be output from a media device . Content could be for example a combination of files including an image a series of images video audio etc.

Referring to there is shown more detail of system . Mobile phone may be in communication with media device through network . Network may be for example a wireless network such as a home wireless network. Media device may be for example a television a monitor a computer a gaming console such as the XBOX 360 SONY PLAYSTATION NINTENDO WII NINTENDO DS PSP a dedicated media player like POPCORN HOUR etc. Media device may include a network port such as an Ethernet port or a UPnP Universal Plug and Play or DLNA Digital Living Network Alliance port. Media device may output content through for example a display speakers or a combination thereof.

Mobile phone may be in communication with network such as the Internet either directly or through a cellular base station or satellite or through network . Network in turn is in communication with content server . Content server is in communication with a memory that may store content . Content may be for example content stored in connection with certain web sites and or that may be displayable on a web page . Examples of web pages with content could include for example social networking web pages on FACEBOOK FLICKR MYSPACE PICASA LINKED IN etc.

Mobile phone may include an antenna a display a memory a user interface and a camera all in communication with a processor . Antenna may enable wireless communications with media device base station satellite and network . Memory may store an application that may be used to request access to content stored in memory of content server . For example application may communicate with a particular API application programming interface related to content server and or web site .

Referring to in use mobile phone may receive a request from a user on user interface requesting content . Request may initiate application and may include an identification of content server and credentials. For example request may indicate that user desires content from his her FACEBOOK account and may include credentials including a user name and password for the account. Phone sends request to content server through network either directly or through base station or satellite or through network . Content server receives request and sends request to memory .

Referring now to in response to request memory provides content to content server . Content server may send content to mobile phone through network and base station or satellite or through network . Content may be stored in memory of phone . Phone now awaits for an output request by user . A catalog of content may be generated by processor and displayed to user on display . Output request may be for a subset of content in request . Request may request all pictures from a particular Internet account whereas output request may request output of only certain of the pictures in request . Output request may also request output of content stored directly on phone such as content stored by camera . Such content may also be sent to media device . Media device receives and outputs content such as through display speakers or some combination thereof. Content may be all of or a selected subset of content .

Upon receipt of output request from user on user interface phone may first broadcast information about phone in network such as through for example SSDP simple service discovery protocol or UPnP DLNA communications. Such a broadcast helps ensure communication between phone and media device . Mobile device may then send content to media device over network such as through for example UPnP DLNA communications.

Application may transform content so that content is in a format more commonly used by media devices . For example processor may read content and meta data of content may be processed to identify the codecs and their parameters in use. Thereafter content may be decoded using a decoder to determine the original format of the content. This decoding basically fetches the image video or audio information in raw unencoded format. The decoded data may be encoded again to a new format supported by media device . Content could be either encoded and decoded on the fly sometimes called on demand transcoding or content could be preprocessed and stored in memory in its new format before streaming. For example application may transform pictures in content into a JPEG joint pictures experts group or PNG portable network graphics format.

Application may be disabled by user so that content is not sent to media device . This operation may be useful in public network situations to avoid undesired distribution of private information. As mentioned above output request may cause phone to send content to media device . This may include making content available for request by media device including UPnP DLNA port .

A system in accordance with this disclosure enables a mobile phone to be used as a media proxy for content stored on the Internet. As content is sent from the Internet and stored locally on the mobile device output of content on media device may be performed quickly. Content may be stored and outputted simultaneously from phone and or from a plurality of Internet based memories.

Referring to there is shown a process which could be performed in accordance with the disclosure. The process of could be implemented using for example system discussed above. As shown at a step S a mobile phone may receive a request to display content. Such content may be stored by a content server connected to the Internet. The request may include a particular web site and credentials for the site.

At step S the mobile phone may send the request to the content server. At step S the content server may receive the request. At step S the content server may send the request to a memory. At step S the content server may receive the content from the memory. At step S the content server may send the content to the mobile phone. At step S the mobile phone may receive the content. At step S the mobile phone may store the content.

At step S the mobile phone may receive an output request to output the content. At step S the mobile phone may send the content to the media device. This could be performed wirelessly and could be in response to a request from the media device. At step S the media device may receive the content. At step S the media device may output the content such as through a visual display speakers or some combination.

While the invention has been described with reference to a number of exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes can be made and equivalents can be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications can be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to any particular exemplary embodiment disclosed herein.

