---

title: Lateral passive device having dual annular electrodes
abstract: A method for forming a lateral passive device including a dual annular electrode is disclosed. The annular electrodes formed from the method include an anode and a cathode. The annular electrodes allow anode and cathode series resistances to be optimized to the lowest values at a fixed device area. In addition, the parasitic capacitance to a bottom plate (substrate) is greatly reduced.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08288244&OS=08288244&RS=08288244
owner: International Business Machines Corporation
number: 08288244
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100713
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 422 125 filed Jun. 5 2006 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 821 097. The application identified above is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety for all that it contains in order to provide continuity of disclosure.

The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided by the terms of government contract N66001 02 C 8014 awarded by the Defense Advanced Research Project Agency DARPA .

The invention relates generally to semiconductor device fabrication and more particularly to a lateral passive device having dual annular electrodes and a related method.

To optimize passive devices for radio frequency RF applications the series resistance and parasitic capacitance need to be reduced. Referring to one approach to reduce the capacitance is to increase a distance L between an anode and a cathode and minimize device area. Under this approach conventional lateral devices such as a PIN diode PN diode Schottky barrier diode SBD etc. are designed using striped structures. For example as shown in one stripe is used as an anode and another stripe is used as the cathode. A distance L is provided between stripe and stripe . Unfortunately to reduce resistance for this kind of structure the device size has to be increased which results in a device with larger layout area and a larger associated parasitic capacitance. In other words the requirements to reduce parasitic capacitance are diametrically opposed to the requirements to reduce series resistance.

A lateral passive device is disclosed including a dual annular electrode. The annular electrodes form an anode and a cathode. The annular electrodes allow anode and cathode series resistances to be optimized to the lowest values at a fixed device area. In addition the parasitic capacitance to a bottom plate substrate is greatly reduced. In one embodiment a device includes a first annular electrode surrounding a second annular electrode formed on a substrate and the second annular electrode surrounds an insulator region. A related method is also disclosed.

A first aspect of the invention provides a device formed on a substrate the device comprising a first annular electrode surrounding a second annular electrode and the second annular electrode surrounding a first insulator region.

A second aspect of the invention provides a lateral passive device comprising an insulator region an annular electrode surrounding the insulator region a first annular insulator region surrounding the annular electrode and another annular electrode surrounding the first annular insulator region.

A third aspect of the invention is directed to a method comprising providing a substrate forming a first insulator region in the substrate forming an annular electrode surrounding the first insulator region and forming another annular electrode surrounding the first annular insulator region.

The illustrative aspects of the present invention are designed to solve the problems herein described and or other problems not discussed.

It is noted that the drawings of the invention are not to scale. The drawings are intended to depict only typical aspects of the invention and therefore should not be considered as limiting the scope of the invention. In the drawings like numbering represents like elements between the drawings.

Referring to one embodiment of a device according to the invention is shown. In one embodiment device takes the form of a lateral passive device such as a lateral PN diode a lateral PIN diode a Schottky barrier diode or a varactor. Lateral passive device includes a first annular electrode surrounding a second annular electrode . Second annular electrode surrounds a first insulator region which is not annular i.e. a non annular block . As used herein the terms first second third etc. are used for differentiation purposes only and not to denote any chronological formation or relative positioning or to express any other meaning Each annular electrode may be formed by doping a silicon substrate . In one embodiment silicon substrate may include a bulk silicon substrate and an epitaxially grown N silicon layer thereon. It is understood however that the teachings of the invention may be applied to other silicon substrates such as silicon on insulator SOI substrates pre doped silicon e.g. with germanium or any other now known or later developed silicon substrate. For example epitaxially grown silicon layer may be omitted if bulk silicon substrate has a resistivity greater than approximately 2 ohm cm. Lateral passive device may also include an annular insulator region between first annular electrode and second annular electrode to electrically isolate electrodes . Alternatively electrodes may simply be separated by silicon. However this is not preferred in a self aligned silicide salicide process and would additionally require a thin insulating film to block salicidation in order to electrically isolate electrodes and . In one embodiment annular insulation region has a width L of no smaller than approximately 0.1 m. In one embodiment width L is substantially uniform.

As illustrated in in one embodiment annular insulator region includes a shallow trench isolation STI . As used herein shallow trench isolation STI may include an insulation structure having a depth of approximately 100 nm to approximately 400 nm. Similarly trench isolation TI as used herein may include an insulation structure having a depth of approximately 1 m to approximately 3 m and deep trench isolation DT may include an insulation structure having a depth of approximately 5 m to approximately 8 m. It is understood however that the terms STI TI and DT are used as relative differentiators and that the actual depths of the various types of trench isolations may vary from the dimensions stated above. The insulation material used may include any now known or later developed insulation structure material such as silicon oxide SiO shown in boro phosphorous glass BPSG or polysilicon Si for for example an STI. Similarly the insulation material may include any of the above or as shown for example in polysilicon polySi with a silicon oxide SiO liner and silicon nitride SiN liner for TI or DT only shown for DT . As shown best in where TI or DT is used they may extend through or have an STI upper extremity.

As shown in in one embodiment first annular electrode is doped with an n dopant such as phosphorous P arsenic As or antimony Sb . Similarly second annular electrode is doped with a p dopant such as boron B indium In or gallium Ga . As such first annular electrode includes a cathode and second annular electrode includes an anode. It is understood however that which electrode provides the anode or cathode can be switched depending on the type of dopant used.

As shown in for example in one embodiment lateral passive device may also include another annular insulator region surrounding first annular electrode to electrically isolate the entire device from other devices not shown . As will be described further below insulation region and annular insulator region may each include a STI a TI e.g. or a DT e.g. . When one utilizes only STI for annular insulator region lateral passive device may be positioned at a sufficient distance away from other devices not shown within silicon substrate so as not to electrically interfere. The use of DT or TI as annular insulator region enables better device to device isolation in order to reduce required spacing between devices.

Turning to various embodiments of a lateral passive device will now be described. shows a lateral passive device including annular insulator region in the form of TI and insulator region in the form of STI . shows a lateral passive device including annular insulator region in the form of DT and insulator region in the form of STI . shows a lateral passive device including insulator region in the form of TI and annular insulator region in the form of STI . shows a lateral passive device including insulator region and annular insulator region in the form of TI . shows a lateral passive device including insulator region in the form of TI and annular insulator region in the form of DT . shows a lateral passive device including insulator region in the form of DT through STI and annular insulator region in the form of STI . shows a lateral passive device including insulator region in the form of DT and annular insulator region in the form of DT .

In one embodiment a method is also provided which includes providing a substrate e.g. a silicon substrate forming a first insulator region in substrate forming an annular electrode surrounding first insulator region and forming another annular electrode surrounding first annular insulator region . The method may further include forming a first annular insulator region surrounding annular electrode i.e. between annular electrode and annular electrode and or forming a second annular insulator region surrounding annular electrode . As described above insulator region and second annular insulator region each may include one of an STI a TI and a DT . The above described embodiments may be formed using any now known or later developed fabrication methods. For example patterning a photoresist and etching to form STI TI or DT openings. Then depositing an insulating material e.g. silicon oxide SiO in the openings. Alternatively certain insulator regions such as insulator region can be formed by local oxidation of silicon LOCOS . In one embodiment isolation regions may be formed and then first and second annular electrodes may be formed by doping with the appropriate dopant described above. The order of doping may vary. Further the order of formation of the different structures may also vary.

Subsequent processing may be conducted to form contacts to electrodes . For example shows the embodiment after subsequent processing including forming silicide and ohmic contacts to first and second annular electrodes . As the knowledge of how this process is well known it will not be described in detail here.

In the above described embodiment first and second electrodes are polygon and more particular substantially rectangular. show alternative shapes for lateral passive device according to various embodiments of the invention. In lateral passive device is substantially octagonal and in lateral passive device is substantially circular. Other shapes may also be possible and are considered within the scope of the invention. Each shape may be formed using any of the above described methods.

Due to annular electrodes of lateral passive device both the anode and cathode series resistance are optimized to the lowest values at a fixed device area. At the same time the parasitic capacitance to a bottom plate substrate is greatly reduced. With lateral passive device as described herein it is expected the best quality factor can be yielded at a fixed device area. Another advantage for lateral passive device is it has an additional freedom to increase size to achieve high radio frequency RF performance requirements without introducing any parasitic in the middle thereof because the middle is filled with insulating region .

The foregoing description of various aspects of the invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description. It is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise form disclosed and obviously many modifications and variations are possible. Such modifications and variations that may be apparent to a person skilled in the art are intended to be included within the scope of the invention as defined by the accompanying claims.

