---

title: Automated ranking of online service or product providers
abstract: An online computer system is configured to receive requests from seekers for products or services and to provide the seekers and products a place to complete work once connected. The computer system searches through personal contacts of the seekers for trusted providers of the product or service request based on their proximity to the seekers. The computer system is configured to search through contacts within referral networks of the personal contacts for level-1 and level-2 providers of the product or service request. The level-2 providers might be more reliable because they are referred through the personal contacts of the seekers. The providers and referral contacts of the referrals can be rated and then provider candidates ranked according to the associated provider and referral ratings.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08478651&OS=08478651&RS=08478651
owner: Mavenlink, LLC
number: 08478651
owner_city: Irvine
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101029
---
The present application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 256 865 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Businesses or individuals seeking services advice and products seekers frequently ask friends colleagues or acquaintances to recommend or validate candidates for the services advice and or products providers . The goal of seekers in making the inquiries is to increase the chances of choosing a quality provider and minimize the corresponding risks associated with making a poor selection. The seeker can obtain direct information from the providers based on in person meetings and proposals. The seeker can also use several traditional channels to reach friends colleagues or acquaintances including in person meetings phone calls emails and instant messaging.

As the needs of seekers become more and more specific there is a growing demand for specialized services from providers to be provided on an as needed basis. Further as more and more services are extended through an online environment seekers have a wider group of potential providers from which to choose. This has several advantages such as removing geographic limitations increased competition for price and quality breadth of available services and more mediums of interaction between seekers and providers. However trying to find increasingly niche skill sets within this expansive group of providers from across the globe makes it less likely that traditional channels will be able to provide reliable recommendations. Specifically it may be more difficult for the seekers to locate acquaintances who can vouch for the providers.

Current online service and product delivery systems have used a variety of tools and capabilities to address the challenge of selecting a provider including community ranking of the provider individual feedback ratings for a provider money back guarantees online tests taken by providers and provider self examination. However these tools still lack the level of confidence provided by personal referrals.

Referring to current online services and product delivery systems used for locating providers and products lack the element of trusted recommendations or referrals from friends colleagues or acquaintances. Something the seeker would most certainly explore in a non virtual selection process. A resource management system provides online seekers with trusted recommendations within an online context reducing the risks associated with using online services and products and facilitating the process of finding a trusted resource.

The resource management system uses both personal contacts and referral contacts to identify and rank different providers of products and services. In one embodiment the resource management system operates on a network web server connected to a computer of a user seeking products or services. Any combination of the computer software operating on the computer and or the user of the computer are referred to generally as a seeker . Only one seeker is shown in however it should be understood that any number of seekers may access system . Any references below to a single seeker may also apply to a plurality of seekers and vice versa. Further any references below to a single provider may also apply to a plurality of providers and vice versa.

The seeker may be connected to the management system via any combination of wireless or wire line connections . For example the computer may be a smart phone that runs an application that establishes a wireless phone or wi fi connection that communicates over the Internet with the resource management system . In another embodiment the computer is a Personal Computer PC that uses a web browser to connect over an Internet connection with the web server that operates resource management system .

The blocks shown in resource management system represent different combinations of data and functions that may be implemented by processors and memory within one or more web servers and storage servers. Some of the operations described below may be performed on the computer and other operations performed on the web server . Of course other types of computing devices can also be used to implement seeker and resource management system such as tablet PC s smart phones and any other wireless or wired computing device.

A personal network represents a set of contacts created or linked to by seeker . For example contacts A C may include a name address phone number email address professional specialty and sub specialties a ranking of their particular provider services a ranking of their referral services etc. While shown located in the personal network of seeker the contacts referenced in personal network may be an array of pointers that point to locations in a database where the contact information is located. For example a contact can be created in personal network when the seeker accepts an invitation from another user to join their network when the seeker manually enters the name address specialty etc. of the contact into system or when a contact works on a project with seeker .

The seeker and contacts can establish associated referral networks that can include some or all of the same contacts in their associated personal networks . For example the seeker can designate any of contacts A C as part of referral network by selecting fields within profile that designate that particular contact as a referral. Other information within profile is discussed in more detail below.

The contacts can operate as providers of goods and services a referral source for other providers of goods and services both or neither. In the example shown in contacts A and B may be providers of products or services but also serve as referral sources for other providers A B and D F respectively. The user associated with contact A creates their own referral network A by configuring profile A to designate contacts A and B as referrals. The user associated with contact B creates a referral network B by configuring profile B to designate contacts D F as referrals.

The contacts A F are also potential providers of products or services to seeker and are therefore alternatively referred to below as providers A F. The contact information contained in the profiles for the providers A F may be the same as any other contact and identifies the name address email address and any particular specialties of the person associated with provider . The profiles for the providers can also include a ranking of their particular provider services and or a ranking of their referral services.

Contact C did not designate any of their personal contacts as referrals and therefore does not have a referral network and does not operate as a referral source for seekers or providers . However contact C operates as a provider of goods and services and is therefore alternatively referred to below as a provider C in appropriate seeker requests. Provider C is considered a level 1 since contact C is part of the personal network of seeker . Providers A B and D F are level 2 providers since they are only indirectly connected to seeker through contacts A and B respectively.

An on line collaboration workspace located on the web server is used by the seeker any selected providers and potentially any associated referral sources for the providers if any and depending on the preference of the parties established in the network profile as described below. For example seeker may select and use the provider D for accounting services. The seeker and provider D can create a workspace in resource management system for the accounting project. The seeker and provider D create and enter into a service contract via documents exchanged within workspace . Tax documents invoices and payments can then be loaded and exchanged between seeker and provider D via the workspace .

In the example in the contact B served as the referral source of provider D to seeker . Contact B by configuring profile B has the option of participating in the accounting project as either an active network director or a passive network director. For example the contact B when configured through profile B as an active network director can introduce provider D to seeker and can participant in the project created in workspace . The contact B when configured through profile B as a passive network director is not to be notified of any correspondence or projects established between seeker and providers D F. Active and passive network directors are described in more detail below.

On line ratings systems usually rate service providers restaurants product providers etc. on a star scale. For example five stars is the best rating and 1 star is the worst rating. Because the seeker may not know any of the people rating a particular provider the trustworthiness of the star ratings is questionable. For example some rankings may be from persons employed by the provider or from persons that have a biased personal relationship with the provider. Further dozens of providers may have similar star ratings leaving the seeker with no clear indication of what provider to select.

Personal referrals from friends work associates and family members are usually considered more trustworthy than referrals from current online systems. A person can also weigh the recommendations from acquaintances based on their personal knowledge and experiences with the acquaintance. For example a seeker may admire the remodeling work performed on the house of a friend. Since the friend has shown prior aptitude for choosing high quality remodeling contractors that friend may be a more trustworthy referral than an on line contractor referral service.

The resource management system identifies providers C that are personal contacts within the personal network of the seeker . The system also identifies providers A B and D F that referred through the personal contacts A and B within the personal network of seeker . These providers may be given more deference when ranked against other providers without a personal contact connection with the seeker . Thus personal contacts of the seeker are used to automatically identify and help differentiate product and service providers .

The resource management system includes a ranking module that ranks the identified providers according to both a provider ranking and a referral ranking . For example provider B is identified as a referral from contact A. Contact A is a personal contact located within the personal network of seeker . With all else equal the ranking module may rank provider B higher than other providers that are not personal contacts and are not referrals from personal contacts of seeker .

Contacts A and B provide referrals through referral networks A and B respectively and may also be ranked in referral ratings . The referral ratings provide an indication of the general quality of the referrals provided by a particular contact A or B. If the referral rating of a contact A or B is low the final ranking of a provider identified through that contact may be lowered. On the other hand if the referral rating of the contact A or B is high the final ranking of the provider identified through that contact may be higher.

In operation the management system identifies any contacts in personal network that have referral networks . In the example of personal contacts A and B have referral networks A and B respectively. The management system in operation identifies any contacts in the referral networks A and B that correspond to the seeker request. For example the management system identifies contacts within the referral networks A and B having profiles with a specialty listed as divorce law domestic relations law or divorce attorney. The management system may also access other networks for providers such as an on line lawyer referral service.

In operation the resource management system determines the provider ratings of the identified providers and the referral ratings of any associated referral sources. For example the provider B in may have been previously rated on five different projects. An overall rating may be derived by averaging the five different ratings. The overall provider rating might also factor in the total number of projects completed by the provider. Two of the five projects may have stemmed through a referral from contact A. The referral rating for contact A may be i the average of the two provider ratings for the two projects where contact A served as a referral or the average for all of the provider ratings for all of the providers A and B within the referral network A of contact A or iii a blend of i and ii . Alternatively the seekers may manually assign referral ratings to contact A for the two projects.

In operation the resource management system ranks the candidate providers according to the provider ratings any associated referral ratings and or the connection level between the seeker and the candidate provider . For example with all else equal a provider with a higher provider rating may be ranked higher than a provider with a lower provider rating .

With all else equal a provider with a higher associated referral rating may be ranked higher than a provider with a lower associated referral rating or with no referral rating. For example contact A may have a relatively low referral rating. Since provider B was located through the referral network A of contact A provider B may be given a lower ranking. The provider B may be given a higher ranking if contact A has a relatively high referral rating . Alternatively the referral ratings of a referral source for a provider may be presented separately to the seeker and the providers ranked only according to their provider rating .

In another example candidate providers may be identified that are not located in the personal network of the seeker and are not located through the referral network of a personal contact . For example a provider may be identified through a social network of the seeker or through a lawyer referral service. With all else equal this provider may be ranked lower than another provider that has an associated referral rating through system that is above some threshold.

The candidate providers can also be ranked according to their contact level with the seeker . For example provider C is also a personal contact C within the personal network of seeker . Therefore provider C has one degree of separation from seeker and is considered a level 1 provider. The provider B is connected to seeker through the referral network A of contact A. Therefore provider B has two degrees of separation from seeker and is considered a level 2 provider. In one embodiment with all else equal the level 1 provider C may be ranked higher than the level 2 provider B. On the other hand if referral contact A has a particularly high referral rating the level 2 provider B may be ranked higher than the level 1 provider C. Providers with additional degrees of separation from seeker may be ranked even lower.

Other parameters can also be considered when ranking the providers . The providers with specialties that more closely match the product or service request may be ranked higher. For example a graphics artist may identify a sub specialty in a particular programming language. If the request from seeker includes that particular programming language then that provider with the programming language sub specialty may be ranked higher than other providers that do not have that particular specialty.

The reliability of the overall provider rating may improve with a larger number of projects and associated provider ratings . Therefore with all else equal a provider with a larger number of provider ratings may be ranked higher than a provider with a same average overall provider rating but with a lower number of provider ratings. The ranking of a provider may also be increased when the provider ratings for other participants in the projects are on an average higher than other providers .

If two providers have the same overall ranking the provider with the closer connection level with the seeker may be ranked higher. In another example if two providers have the same overall ranking the provider with the higher associated referral ranking may be ranked higher. Any of the ranking parameters identified above may be configured to have priority over other ranking parameters. In other embodiments the different ranking parameters may be weighted differently to determine final candidate provider rankings.

The candidate providers are displayed to the seeker in order of their ranking. The seeker can then select any of the candidate providers in the ranked candidate list. For example the seeker may contact divorce attorney B and ask for a proposal for fees. If the proposal is accepted the seeker and provider B create a workspace for conducting the project. The seeker and provider B can draft and sign an engagement agreement and exchange documents through the workspace . After the project is completed in this case when the divorce proceedings have ended the seeker can rate both the provider B and potentially the contact A that acted as the referral source for provider B. In other embodiments the referral source rating might be derived indirectly from the seeker s rating of the provider B. The additional provider ratings and referral ratings are then used by the ranking module in subsequent candidate provider rankings.

The identity of seeker can be an email address name login name password phone number etc. that uniquely identifies the seeker and links the seeker to a particular personal network and other data in databases and . The request module uses the identity of seeker to create identify and manage associated agreements with other seekers contacts and providers . The request module passes the product or service and seeker identified in the request to a contacts aggregator module .

The contacts aggregator module identifies any contacts in the personal network that have the particular specialties identified in request . These contacts are alternatively referred to as direct contacts direct connections direct providers or level 1 providers. For example contact C is also a level 1 provider C for seeker .

The contacts aggregator module also identifies the referral networks A and B for contacts A and B respectively. The contacts aggregator module also searches through referral networks A and B for providers that have the particular specialties identified in the request . The providers A B and D F are alternatively referred to as indirect providers level 2 connections or level 2 providers to seeker .

The contacts aggregator module aggregates all the provider candidates for request . In other words contacts aggregator module identifies all of the level 1 providers C and level 2 providers A B and D F that have the particular specialties identified in request . The aggregator module then passes all of the possible provider candidates to the ranking module . Additional provider levels can also be identified.

The ranking module receives the provider candidates and any other associated information from aggregator module . Ranking module searches a project activity database for any provider ratings and referral ratings for the candidate providers and any associated referral sources respectively.

Provider candidates are ranked based on any combination of different parameters. As mentioned above the rankings may be based on how closely the specialties of the candidate providers match the product or service sought by the seeker . In another example a first candidate A may identify themselves as a divorce attorney. A second contact B may identify themselves as a divorce attorney with a sub specialty in child custody. If the request requests services for a divorce attorney in a child custody matter candidate B may be given a higher ranking than candidate A.

The specialty and sub specialty information is entered into fields that are presented to a user when entering biographical information into the resource management system . The user may also submit a resume along with their other contact information. The resource management system can then parse through the resume of potential providers for additional biographical information and relatedness of such biographical information to the specialty and sub specialty information associated with the request .

As also mentioned above the ranking module may rank the provider candidates according to their proximity to the seeker . For example with all else equal a level 1 provider C may be ranked higher than level 2 providers A B or D F. The level 1 and level 2 association of a particular provider with a particular seeker is identified by the contacts aggregator module and supplied to the ranking module .

The resource management system tracks the total number of projects associated with a particular provider or referral source in project activity database . A lead seeker or lead contact may be associated with each project and sub seekers or sub contacts may also be identified for a particular project. A lead provider or main contactor may be identified for the project and sub providers or sub contractors also identified for the project and stored in project activity database .

A referral module controls what and how candidate providers are presented to the seeker . For example a first candidate provider C is located in the personal network of seeker . The referral module may display this level 1 provider C to the seeker without further restrictions.

As mentioned above the contacts A and B can be configured as active network directors or passive network directors. In the example in contact A is configured as a passive network director and contact B is configured as an active network director. A passive network director refers to a contact A that does not want to be directly involved for projects established through their referral network A. A passive network director A might or might not want a referral fee for projects established through their referral network A. For example contact A may be a lawyer that has contacts for other legal specialties. Contact A would like to receive referrals back from these other legal contacts but does not want any fees for providing referrals.

The referral module identifies a candidate provider A that was identified through the referral network A of contact A. The referral module reviews profile A in and determines contact A is a passive network director. Accordingly the referral module presents the candidate provider A to seeker without notifying contact A. However the referral module may notify contact A of any subsequent provider rating given to provider A by seeker . The contact A may also configure profile A so that contacts aggregator module does not use any personal contacts as referrals unless they are contained in referral network A. If the provider rating is unsatisfactory the contact A may then choose to remove provider A from referral network A.

In this example contact B has been configured through profile B in to operate as an active network director. For example the contact B may be associated with an employment service that manages the providers D F. For active network directors the referral module presents candidate providers through their referring contact. For example provider D may be identified as a candidate provider. The referral module may initially hide provider D from seeker or provide information about provider D under an anonymous heading. The referral module instead presents the referring contact B active network director in the list of candidate providers to seeker . The seeker then communicates directly with active network director B who can then determine when to introduce provider D. All subsequent communications for the project between seeker and provider D can also be directed to or through the active network director B in the collaboration workspace .

The referral module identifies other relationships between any of the candidate providers and associated referral sources. For example contacts aggregator module may have identified a candidate provider through an external social network of passive network director A that is not in referral network A. The passive network director A may configure profile A in so that the referral module filters these unintended referrals identified in the external social network of passive network director A from seeker .

Alternatively a provider found through a social network or anywhere outside of a referral network may first be presented to the active network director B. The active network director B providing the link to the candidate provider can then either allow or not allow the candidate provider to be presented to the seeker . By clicking on a displayed field the active network director B may cause the referral module to send a referral agreement to the candidate provider requiring a 10 referral fee. After the candidate provider signs and sends the referral agreement back to the active network director B the candidate provider is presented to the seeker . The active network director B might also click on another field displayed by the referral module that automatically adds the candidate provider to their referral network B.

In another embodiment candidate providers located outside of the referral networks may be displayed to the seeker but with a lower ranking or with a notice that the contact that provided the link to the candidate provider is not serving as a referral source.

The referral module applies referral agreements in database to projects. For example contact B and provider D may have entered into a referral contract where contact B receives a referral fee of 10 of all billings for any projects established through referral network B. The referral module may determine when a project is completed and then on behalf of contact B automatically send an invoice to provider B for 10 of the total fees for the project.

The agreement database may also contain introduction letters that contacts A or B can write for associated providers . For example the contact A may load an introduction letter into agreements database for provider B. The referral module attaches the introduction letter whenever provider B is presented as a candidate provider to a seeker through contact A.

The display module receives the ranked provider candidates and any associated display permissions identified by referral module . For example the display module may display all level 1 providers such as provider C that are identified directly from the personal network of seeker . The display module also presents candidate providers identified through passive network directors such as client A directly to the seeker without notifying client A. For provider candidates from active network directors such as client B the display module alternatively or in addition presents the contact information of the active network director to the seeker .

The internal networks and external networks contain contact information for friends colleagues or acquaintances business associates or any other contacts for particular individuals. The networks and include contact information for a multi layered hierarchy of contacts. The resource management system identifies degrees of separation and types of relationships between the contacts within the different networks and . The contacts in the networks and can also be identified as business acquaintances friends alumni etc. The contacts can also include other relationship information such as how long the person affiliated with the network has known particular contacts.

Internal networks have proprietary and limited Application Programming Interfaces APIs available for accessing relationship information about the retained contacts. Networks are associated with external social network sites that possess open APIs for accessing information for the contained contacts. Networks and may use APIs capable of being accessed by a common API framework but are not required to have common API frameworks.

A contacts access module makes programmatic calls out to the APIs of the networks and on behalf of seekers . As described above the seekers are persons who sign up and join the resource management system to help identify providers of different products and services. The providers may or may not have signed up and joined the resource management system as a class of potential providers of online services.

The contacts access module uses the profile for the seeker as a source of input parameters for making outgoing calls to the internal networks and the external social network . For example the profile may only include a link to the internal personal networks A. The seeker may selectively add links in the profile to other external networks that can be searched for additional contacts. The profile can be configured by the seeker on an opt in basis to select one or more of the networks and or for accessing by contacts access module .

Profile is also configured by the seeker to select any number of display preferences. For example the seeker may configure the resource management system through profile to display contact relationship information based upon positive or negative performance feedback and ratings of a provider either inside or outside of the system . The number of contacts within the networks and are likely to expand over time as social networking sites continue to expand their coverage of relationships between individuals. The profile allows the seeker to identify which networks and and which contacts in those networks to use for provider recommendations. The bi directional process of automatically searching through the networks and and obtaining contact information can be performed at regular intervals or can be performed responsive to a sign up or sign in activity by the seekers or any other automatic or manual condition.

The contacts aggregator module accumulates the contacts and relationship information extracted from the networks and into contact records and stores the contact records in a network database . Users can then designate via their profile what contacts in database to include in their referral networks in . The contacts and any related information in network database can be converted into a binary format that is used by the resource management system to identify providers .

An indexing module links any referral ratings and provider ratings entered into the project activity database with the associated contacts in network database . The indexing module can also associate other scoring and meta information with the aggregated contacts . This can include identifying relevant activities of both seekers and providers within resource management system the proximity of connections between seekers and particular providers within network database . For example as mentioned above candidate providers can be identified as level 1 providers or level 2 providers to a particular seeker . The indexing module can also run automatically at regular intervals and or on demand as new members join or sign into resource management system .

The request module receives requests from the seekers . The indexing module locates the candidate providers in network database according to the request the ranking module ranks the candidate providers the referral module filters the candidate providers according to agreements in agreement database and the display module presents the candidate providers to the seeker .

The ranking module can also rank the candidate providers according to the reliability of the social networking sites and the number of contacts of the seeker that has selected the product or service provider . For example internal network may be considered more reliable than any of the external social networks .

The display module can also provide various provider parameters to the seeker to choose from. For example the display module allows the seekers to choose providers according to levels of proximity to the seeker or according to where the providers are located in networks or . The display module allows the seeker to direct the management system to only identify the candidate providers that are located in the personal network A of the seeker or located in the referral networks of contacts within personal network A.

The seeker through display module may also select providers according to how recent the providers has been selected for a project or according to the feedback given on the provider . For example the seeker may direct the resource management system to filter any providers with an overall rating less than three stars or that have not been selected for a project in more than two months.

In one example a user named John Smith decides to sign up to use the online resource management system . As part of the sign up process John is offered the opportunity to identify any social networking sites he currently uses along with the appropriate passwords for those sites. Trusting the site John provides inputs for social networking site A and social networking site B. These sites contain information about John including his personal and business contacts as well as at least two additional levels of connectivity related to his personal and business contacts.

As part of the process of signing up information is displayed by the resource management system educating John on how to connect to other users within the resource management system . Because John was referred verbally to the site by his friend Sue John decides to search through the public profiles of other users. Through the search John finds his friend Sue and sends an electronic request to be linked with her inside the resource management system . Sue happens to be online and immediately accepts John s invitation. The resource management system then automatically adds Sue as a contact in the personal network of John and adds John as a contact in the personal network of Sue. At this time John or Sue can also designate the other as part of their referral network .

Soon after connecting with Sue John proceeds to start the process of using the online resource management system to locate an expert in finance and accounting to provide analysis related to aging receivables. John inputs a request into the system for finance and accounting services and an amount he is willing to pay for the services. The request is received by request module and the display module presents John with a list of possible parameters to limit or adjust the candidate providers per his request. For example the display module may provide John with the option of selecting which networks and and what level of connectivity to use for locating providers .

John selects an option that causes the contacts access module to use the contact information from both his internal personal network and information from his external social networking sites A and B for identifying potential providers . John also chooses to only see level 1 and level 2 providers that are separate from John by no more than one direct contact . The management system accesses the networks A and B for candidate providers .

Three candidate providers are identified from the request. A first provider corresponds with provider C in is a longtime friend and has successfully helped a number of seekers with their analysis of aging receivables through the management system . A second provider is a business acquaintance of John who was captured by the contacts access module from one of John s social networks . A third provider was located through the referral network of Sue and through another acquaintance in social network A. The third provider recently helped Sue with her small business accounting needs and received a favorable provider ranking from Sue.

Based on the information related to the providers described above the ranking module returns the list of three potential providers ranked from top to bottom in the following order provider provider and provider . These rankings are based on the implicit relationships of the providers with John the contacts between John and the referrals contacts that have used the providers within the resource management system and any other feedback or ratings information as described above.

In addition to returning the candidate providers to John in an automatically ranked order the resource management system can also present other information about the providers including the networks where the providers were located the individuals who used the providers and any ratings given to the providers inside the resource management system .

The second listed candidate provider is connected to John through referrals from Sue and Vincent. As explained above provider was identified through the referral network A of Sue. Therefore the candidate provider is shown as a layer 2 connection with John. The candidate provider is also identified in the social network A of John through Vincent. Therefore the display module indicates that provider is a level 2 connection with John in network A through Vincent. The provider is identified as one of John s direct contacts in the social network B. Therefore the provider is shown identified as a level 1 connection with John in social network B.

The display module can display provider ratings for the different providers . The display module may also provide links to the candidate providers and provide links to any references so that the John can conduct live project and candidate interviews. Any resumes of the providers may be displayed and any letters of introduction from a reference may also be displayed. The display module may present the candidates in a collaborative workspace with private discussions allowed between the seeker and the candidates .

The display module may present availability of the candidates based on an understanding of time allocated for work in the management system and the total time currently estimated on committed work in the management system. For example a particular provider candidate may currently be working on a project through a collaboration workspace in system . The project may identify the provider candidate as scheduled or budgeted to work for 20 hours over the next week. The seeker proposing the new project may indicate the project completion date as two weeks from the current day and indicate a budget of 10 hours.

The management system can compare the time restrictions on the provider candidate for the first project with the time budget and schedule for the newly proposed project. Any time or schedule conflict can be identified when the candidate provider is presented via the display module to the seeker . The management system can also provide dates that the provider candidate would next be available. For example if the provider candidate was booked on the first project for the next three days the management system could indicate the next availability of the candidate for the 10 hour project as starting on the fourth day and extending into the fifth day.

Several examples have been described above with reference to the accompanying drawings. Various other examples are also possible and practical. The systems and methodologies may be implemented or applied in many different forms and should not be construed as being limited to the examples set forth above. Some systems described above may use dedicated processor systems micro controllers programmable logic devices or microprocessors that perform some or all of the operations. Some of the operations described above may be implemented in software or firmware and other operations may be implemented in hardware.

For the sake of convenience the operations are described as various interconnected functional blocks or distinct software modules. This is not necessary however and there may be cases where these functional blocks or modules are equivalently aggregated into a single logic device program or operation with unclear boundaries. In any event the functional blocks and software modules or features of the flexible interface can be implemented by themselves or in combination with other operations in either hardware or software.

As explained above embodiments of this disclosure may be implemented in a digital computing system for example a CPU or similar processor. More specifically the term digital computing system can mean any system that includes at least one digital processor and associated memory wherein the digital processor can execute instructions or code stored in that memory. The memory may store data as well. 

A digital processor includes but is not limited to a microprocessor multi core processor Digital Signal Processor DSP Graphics Processing Unit GPU processor array network processor etc. A digital processor or many of them may be embedded into an integrated circuit. In other arrangements one or more processors may be deployed on a circuit board motherboard daughter board rack blade etc. . Embodiments of the present disclosure may be variously implemented in a variety of systems such as those just mentioned and others that may be developed in the future. In a presently preferred embodiment the disclosed methods may be implemented in software stored in memory further defined below.

Digital memory further explained below may be integrated together with a processor for example Random Access Memory RAM or FLASH memory embedded in an integrated circuit Central Processing Unit CPU network processor or the like. In other examples the memory comprises a physically separate device such as an external disk drive storage array or portable FLASH device. In such cases the memory becomes associated with the digital processor when the two are operatively coupled together or in communication with each other for example by an I O port network connection etc. such that the processor can read a file stored on the memory. Associated memory may be read only by design ROM or by virtue of permission settings or not. Other examples include but are not limited to WORM EPROM EEPROM FLASH etc. Those technologies often are implemented in solid state semiconductor devices. Other memories may comprise moving parts such a conventional rotating disk drive. All such memories are machine readable in that they are readable by a compatible digital processor. Many interfaces and protocols for data transfers data here includes software between processors and memory are well known standardized and documented elsewhere so they are not enumerated here.

As noted some embodiments may be implemented or embodied in computer software also known as a computer program or code we use these terms interchangeably . Programs or code are most useful when stored in a digital memory that can be read by one or more digital processors. The term computer readable storage medium or alternatively machine readable storage medium includes all of the foregoing types of memory as well as new technologies that may arise in the future as long as they are capable of storing digital information in the nature of a computer program or other data at least temporarily in such a manner that the stored information can be read by an appropriate digital processor. The term computer readable is not intended to limit the phrase to the historical usage of computer to imply a complete mainframe mini computer desktop or even laptop computer. Rather the term refers to a storage medium readable by a digital processor or any digital computing system as broadly defined above. Such media may be any available media that is locally and or remotely accessible by a computer or processor and it includes both volatile and non volatile media removable and non removable media embedded or discrete.

Having described and illustrated a particular example system it should be apparent that other systems may be modified in arrangement and detail without departing from the principles described above. Claim is made to all modifications and variations coming within the spirit and scope of the following claims.

