---

title: Expandable spinal support device with attachable members and methods of use
abstract: Expandable support devices for tissue repair are disclosed. The devices can be used to repair hard or soft tissue, such as bone or vertebral discs. A method of repairing tissue is also disclosed. Surgical devices and methods for adjusting (e.g., removing, repositioning, resizing) deployed orthopedic expandable support devices are also disclosed. The expandable support devices can be engaged and surgically implanted by an engagement device and affixed to bone to provide stability and support for the devices. The expandable support devices are attachable to spinal fixation devices such as screws or plates, and may be used to support such devices when placed in weakened or damaged areas of bone.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08936627&OS=08936627&RS=08936627
owner: Alphatec Spine, Inc.
number: 08936627
owner_city: Carlsbad
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100406
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 167 120 filed Apr. 6 2009 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 255 820 filed Sep. 10 2009 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

This application is also a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 264 181 filed Nov. 3 2008 which is incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

Embodiments of the present application relate to a device and method for attaching to bones for example to repair spinal compression fractures and to provide fixation to adjacent vertebra and methods of using the same.

Broken bones such as compression fractures of one or more vertebrae in the spine may be treated with internal fixation. Any indication needed spinal stability can also be treated by internal fixation. Examples include scoliosis kyphosis spondylothisthesis and rotation segmental instability such as disc degeneration and fracture caused by disease and trauma and congenital defects and degeneration caused by tumors.

As shown by internal fixation in the spine is often accomplished by first screwing fixation screws into the pedicles and vertebral bodies of the vertebrae . shows that the fixation screws are then typically attached to a rigid fixation rod or plate that provide support between one or more weakened vertebra . This support often immobilizes the vertebra to which the fixation screws have been inserted.

Many patients are not candidates for existing fixation systems described above due to compression fractures in the vertebra. In these cases if the screw is placed in the fracture the bones can fail and the fixation screws can be ripped from the bone resulting in complete failure and additional damage to the bone.

Vertebroplasty is often used to treat compression fractures in the vertebra such as those caused by osteoporosis cancer or stress. Vertebroplasty is an image guided minimally invasive nonsurgical therapy for injecting an orthopedic cement mixture through a needle into the fractured bone. The mixture fills or substantially fills the cavity of the compression fracture and is limited to certain chemical compositions thereby limiting the amount of otherwise beneficial compounds that can be added to the fracture zone to improve healing. In an alternative procedure known as kyphoplasty a balloon is first inserted in the compression fracture and the vertebra is expanded before the cement is injected into the newly formed space.

It would be desirable to provide a fixation screw can provide a higher anchoring force in vertebra having compression fractures minimize bone failure and substantially eliminate the risk of backout.

Certain embodiments of the present disclosure provide for systems and methods that can be used to repair hard or soft tissue such as bone or vertebral discs. In one embodiment expandable support devices for tissue repair are disclosed. Surgical devices and methods for adjusting e.g. removing repositioning resizing deployed orthopedic expandable support devices are also disclosed. The expandable support devices can be engaged and surgically implanted by an engagement device and affixed to bone to provide stability and support for the devices.

In one embodiment the expandable support devices are attachable to other spinal fixation devices and may be used to support such devices when placed in weakened or damaged areas of bone. For example an expandable support device may be placed in a damaged vertebral body to support the vertebral body. The expandable support device may be further secured in bone using a filler such as bone cement. A spinal fixation device such as a pedicle screw or plate may be attached to the expandable support device with the expandable support device providing a desired support and location for hold the fixation device in place.

In one embodiment a vertebral support system comprises an expandable support device comprising a proximal end portion a distal end portion and a longitudinal axis extending there between. The expandable support device is configured for delivery within or between spinal vertebral bodies. A spinal fixation device is attached to one of the end portions.

In another embodiment a method for repairing a damaged section of a spine is provided. An expandable support device having a proximal end and a distal end is delivered into the damaged section. The expandable support device is expanded in the damaged section to support the damaged section. A spinal fixation device is attached to the proximal end of the expandable support device.

With reference to the polyaxial screw comprises a head portion a neck portion and a shaft portion . In some embodiments not shown the polyaxial screw further includes other components such as those described in U.S. Publication No. 2008 0243189 and U.S. Pat. No. 7 377 923 referenced above. In one particular embodiment the polyaxial screw comprises a substantially spherical head portion a threaded shaft portion and a tool engagement recess defined by the head portion for use in driving the pedicle screw into vertebrae. The polyaxial screw also comprises a body member for receiving a head portion of the pedicle screw which defines an opening in an inner end thereof for the extension of the shaft portion of the screw there through see . The body member has a pair of opposed parallel slots for receiving a portion of a fixation rod there between. The body member also has a curvilinear interior surface disposed about the opening for abutting and mating with the substantially spherical head portion of the screw so as to allow variable angular movement of the body member with respect to the pedicle screw while maintaining the interior surface of the body member in mating contact with the head portion of the screw. The polyaxial screw further comprises a locking cap releasably securable within the body member such that the cap bears against the portion of a fixation rod disposed between the slots to secure the rod within the assembly. The polyaxial screw also comprises a keyed interface between the pedicle screw and the body member whereby the pedicle screw can be inserted into a vertebrae and the body member subsequently disposed about the substantially spherical head portion of the screw such that the head portion abuts and mates with the curvilinear interior surface of the body member to provide the variable angular movement of the body member with respect to the screw. The keyed interface comprises a first threaded surface in the body member about the opening in the inner end thereof and a second threaded surface on the head portion of the screw. The first threaded surface is adapted to threadably engage the second threaded surface such that the screw can be inserted into a vertebrae and the body member can be threaded onto and over the head portion of the screw to position the curvilinear interior surface of the body member such that the interior surface can abut and mate with the body portion.

In other embodiments the shaft portion can have a tapered shape with a screw thread about the radial outside of shaft portion . In other embodiments the shaft portion can have a non tapered shaped and or no radial outside screw threads . In one particular embodiment polyaxial screw can have hollow shaft neck and head portions along the inner longitudinal axis of the polyaxial screw in order to allow a guide wire not shown to be threaded through the polyaxial screw to help facilitate insertion of the screw during surgery. Additionally the radial inside of polyaxial screw at its distal end can have screw threading not shown to allow it to fixedly and releasably attach to expandable support device . It shall be understood that a variety of shaft designs are interchangeable with the present design. The specific choice of shaft features such as thread pitch shaft diameter to thread diameter ratio overall shaft shape etc. may be varied as needed.

The head portion of the screw can comprise a semi spherical shape which has a recess in it see discussed in further detail below . It is to be understood that the semi spherical shape can be a section of a sphere greater in extent than a hemisphere and exhibiting an external contour which is equidistant from a center point of the head. In a preferred embodiment the major cross section of the semi spherical head portion includes at least 270 degrees of a circle.

Referring to the recess of screw defines a receiving locus for the application of a torque for driving the screw into bone. The specific shape of the recess may be chosen to cooperate with any suitable screw driving tool. For example the recess may comprise a slot for a flat head screwdriver a crossed recess for a Phillips head screwdriver or most preferably a hexagonally shaped hole for receiving an Allen wrench. It is further preferable that the recess be co axial with the general elongate axis of the screw and most particularly with respect to the shaft portion . Having the axes of the recess and the shaft portion co linear facilitates the step of inserting the screw into bone in some embodiments.

Referring back to the expandable support device can have one or more ingrowth ports . The ingrowth ports can be formed by the open spaces between one or more adjacent struts . The ingrowth ports can be configured to encourage biological tissue ingrowth there through during use. The ingrowth ports can be configured to increase and or decrease and or focus pressure against the surrounding biological tissue during use. The ingrowth ports can be configured to increase and or decrease the stiffness of the support struts .

The expandable support device can also have one or more protrusions on the surface of the expandable support device not shown . The protrusions can have features such as tissue hooks and or barbs and or cleats. The protrusions can be integral with and or fixedly or removably attached to the expandable support device . The expandable support device can be configured e.g. on the support struts or other parts of the implant to burrow into soft bone e.g. cancellous or diseased for example until the device fully expands or until the device hits the harder vertebral endplates.

The body member further defines a pair of opposed parallel slots axially disposed in the side wall thereof which terminate at their lower ends in curvilinear surfaces . The two slots are sized to receive the fixation rod therein as shown in the drawings with the walls defining the slots preferably extending upwardly beyond the midpoint of the rod and can be inclined slightly to provide a slight holding force on the rod prior to securing the rod with the locking cap . Thus during assembly the surgeon exerts a slight downward force on the rod snapping the rod into the transverse channel defined by the aligned slots .

The outer or upper interior surface of side walls of the body member both have radially projecting serrations formed therein defining a plurality of axially aligned ratchet teeth or threads that mate with external threads on the locking cap . The exterior bottom surface of body member has spaced outwardly extending concave surface formed therein and a pair of perpendicularly disposed concave surfaces . Surfaces and together with mating surfaces and on the screw head and body member of the assembly provide an extended range of motion of the body member with respect to the screw . In one embodiment the range of motion is about 30 in all directions as measured from the longitudinal axis of the screw and about 40 in the inferior superior direction the outwardly as viewed from the screw head concave surfaces provide the 40 range of motion for a total motion range of 80 . This extended range of motion as compared to the prior art allows the surgeon additional freedom in locating the screws and eases the assembly process by reducing the requirement for a rod contouring

The expandable support devices can be used to provide structural reinforcement from inside one or more bones as a replacement for one or more bones or between bones. The expandable support devices can be used for a variety of orthopedic locations such as in the vertebral column for example to treat compression fractures. Examples of expandable support devices and methods suitable for use as expandable support devices as well as devices for deploying the expandable support devices include those disclosed in the following applications which are all incorporated herein in their entireties PCT Application Nos. US2005 034115 filed 21 Sep. 2005 US2005 034742 filed 26 Sep. 2005 US2005 034728 filed 26 Sep. 2005 US2005 037126 filed 12 Oct. 2005 US2006 016553 filed Apr. 27 2006 US2006 016554 filed Apr. 27 2006 US2006 027601 filed Jul. 14 2006 US2006 038920 filed Apr. 10 2006 US2007 131002 filed May 1 2007 and US2008 003421 filed Mar. 18 2008 and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 457 772 filed Jul. 14 2006 Ser. No. 12 264 181 filed Nov. 3 2008 and Ser. No. 12 456 602 filed Jun. 18 2009.

The deployment tool can have a deployment rod for example to transmit the compressive force to the distal end . The deployment rod can be releasably attached to a threaded portion at the distal end see . The deployment rod can be released and removed after the expandable section is radially expanded.

In the embodiments shown in the expandable support devices have a plurality of struts connecting a near or proximal end portion and a far or distal end portion . The struts can be arranged in a crisscross pattern forming open spaces having a substantially diamond like shape that can deform as the implant expands to form ingrowth ports . The expandable support devices can be constructed of separate structures that are fixed integrated or otherwise joined together. Alternatively the expandable support device can be fabricated from a uniform stock of material e.g. via laser cutting or electrical discharge machining EDM . The expandable support device can be constructed of separate structures that are fixed integrated or otherwise joined together. The struts are deformable and can have a thinner cross sectional thickness than most of the remainder of the stent to allow for pre determined deformation of the expandable support devices to take place. In the pre expanded configuration the cross sectional shape of the expandable support devices can be substantially circular and uniform triangular oval rectangular square or any type of polygon and or rounded and or tapered shape. In the pre expanded configuration the diamond shaped ports may be approximately the same size or may be different sizes that expand differently. Upon expansion the expandable support device can form a polygon type shape or other shape as discussed herein. Upon expansion the ingrowth ports may be approximately the same size or may be different sizes.

In some embodiments at least one of the near and far end portions and of the expandable support devices can have one or more engagement elements to receive an attachable member such as a spinal fixation device discussed in further detail below . The engagement elements can be on the radial inside and or radial outside of the near or far end portions and . The engagement elements can be a screw thread a keyed slot a toggle ball and socket an interference fit a clip a ratchet a magnet glue an expanding anchor clip an abutment a hook or combinations thereof. In the embodiment shown the expandable support devices have screw thread engagement elements on the radial outside of the near end portion configured to receive a threaded attachable member.

Similar to previously discussed devices the expandable support devices can be made from for example a single or multiple stainless steel alloys nickel titanium alloys e.g. Nitinol surgical grade titanium alloy for example Ti 6AI 4V ASTM F 136 commercially pure titanium for example Ti CP2 ASTM F 67 with or without an electrolytic conversion coating cobalt chrome alloys e.g. ELGILOY from Elgin Specialty Metals Elgin Ill. CONICHROME from Carpenter Metals Corp. Wyomissing Pa. nickel cobalt alloys e.g. MP35N from Magellan Industrial Trading Company Inc. Westport Conn. molybdenum alloys e.g. molybdenum TZM alloy for example as disclosed in International Pub. No. WO 03 082363 A2 published 9 Oct. 2003 which is herein incorporated by reference in its entirety tungsten rhenium alloys for example as disclosed in International Pub. No. WO 03 082363 polymers such as polyethylene teraphathalate PET polyester e.g. DACRON from E. I. Du Pont de Nemours and Company Wilmington Del. polypropylene aromatic polyesters such as liquid crystal polymers e.g. Vectran from Kuraray Co. Ltd. Tokyo Japan ultra high molecular weight polyethylene i.e. extended chain high modulus or high performance polyethylene fiber and or yarn e.g. SPECTRA Fiber and SPECTRA Guard from Honeywell International Inc. Morris Township N.J. or DYNEEMA from Royal DSM N. V. Heerlen the Netherlands polytetrafluoroethylene PTFE expanded PTFE ePTFE polyether ketone PEK polyether ether ketone PEEK poly ether ketone ketone PEKK also poly aryl ether ketone ketone nylon polyether block co polyamide polymers e.g. PEB AX from ATOFINA Paris France aliphatic polyether polyurethanes e.g. TECOFLEX from Thermedics Polymer Products Wilmington Mass. polyvinyl chloride PVC polyurethane thermoplastic fluorinated ethylene propylene FEP absorbable or resorbable polymers such as polyglycolic acid PGA poly L glycolic acid PLGA polylactic acid PLA poly L lactic acid PLLA polycaprolactone PCL polyethyl acrylate PEA polydioxanone PDS and pseudo polyamino tyrosine based acids extruded collagen silicone zinc echogenic radioactive radiopaque materials a biomaterial e.g. cadaver tissue collagen allograft autograft xenograft bone cement morselized bone osteogenic powder beads of bone any of the other materials listed herein or combinations thereof. Examples of radiopaque materials are barium sulfate zinc oxide titanium stainless steel nickel titanium alloys tantalum and gold.

With reference to the expandable support devices can be expanded to obtain a non uniform circular cross sectional shape with increasing cross sectional diameter toward the middle of the expandable support devices and decreasing cross sectional diameter toward the near end portions and far end portions of the expandable support devices .

The expansion ratio of the expandable support devices can be for example about 2 to 4 times the initial diameter of the expandable support devices . The expansion ratio can be selected as required for the particular procedure. For example in the pre expanded configuration the expandable support device of can have an initial diameter of about 4.5 mm while in the expanded configuration the diameter can be about 11.4 mm. In a further example the expandable support device of can have an initial diameter of about 5.5 mm while in the expanded configuration the diameter can be about 13 mm. In yet another example the expandable support device of can have an initial diameter of about 7.0 mm while in the expanded configuration the diameter can be about 14.8 mm. However one of skill in the art will understand that the expandable support devices disclosed herein can any number of sizes without departing from the spirit or scope of the invention.

The end portions of the expandable support device can have openings . In one preferred embodiment the openings are threaded to accommodate a threaded attachable member. One or both of the end portions can be solid which allows for filling of the expandable support device with materials described herein. The end portions can be expandable or non expandable i.e. rigid .

The expandable support device and or attachable member can be completely or partially coated with agents and or a matrix for cell ingrowth or used with a fabric for example a covering not shown that acts as a matrix for cell ingrowth. The matrix and or fabric can be for example polyester e.g. DACRON from E. I. Du Pont de Nemours and Company Wilmington Del. polypropylene PTFE ePTFE nylon extruded collagen silicone or combinations thereof.

The expandable support devices and or threaded member and or the fabric can be filled coated layered and or otherwise made with and or from cements fillers glues and or an agent delivery matrix known to one having ordinary skill in the art and or a therapeutic and or diagnostic agent. Any of these cements and or fillers and or glues can be osteogenic and osteoinductive growth factors.

Examples of such cements and or fillers includes bone chips demineralized bone matrix DBM calcium sulfate coralline hydroxyapatite biocoral tricalcium phosphate calcium phosphate polymethyl methacrylate PMMA biodegradable ceramics bioactive glasses hyaluronic acid lactoferrin bone morphogenic proteins BMPs such as recombinant human bone morphogenetic proteins rhBMPs other materials described herein or combinations thereof.

The agents within these matrices can include any agent disclosed herein or combinations thereof including radioactive materials radiopaque materials cytogenic agents cytotoxic agents cytostatic agents thrombogenic agents for example polyurethane cellulose acetate polymer mixed with bismuth trioxide and ethylene vinyl alcohol lubricious hydrophilic materials phosphor cholene anti inflammatory agents for example non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs NSAIDs such as cyclooxygenase 1 COX I inhibitors e.g. acetylsalicylic acid for example ASPIRIN from Bayer AGLeverkusen Germany ibuprofen for example ADVIL from Wyeth Collegeville Pa. indomethacin mefenamic acid COX 2 inhibitors e.g. VIOXX from Merck Co. Inc. Whitehouse Station N.J. CELEBREX from Pharmacia Corp. Peapack N.J. COX I inhibitors immunosuppressive agents for example Sirolimus RAPAMUNE from Wyeth Collegeville Pa. or matrix metalloproteinase MMP inhibitors e.g. tetracycline and tetracycline derivatives that act early within the pathways of an inflammatory response. Examples of other agents are provided in Walton et al Inhibition of Prostaglandin ESynthesis in Abdominal Aortic Aneurysms Circulation Jul. 6 1999 48 54 Tambiah et al Provocation of Experimental Aortic Inflammation Mediators and Chlamydia Pneumoniae Brit. J. Surgery 88 7 935 940 Franklin et al Uptake of Tetracycline by Aortic Aneurysm Wall and Its Effect on Inflammation and Proteolysis Brit. J. Surgery 86 6 771 775 Xu et al SpI Increases Expression of Cyclooxygenase 2 in Hypoxic Vascular Endothelium J. Biological Chemistry 275 32 24583 24589 and Pyo et al Targeted Gene Disruption of Matrix Metalloproteinase 9 Gelatinase B Suppresses Development of Experimental Abdominal Aortic Aneurysms J. Clinical Investigation 105 11 1641 1649 which are all incorporated by reference in their entireties.

The expandable support device can be locked into the expanded configured with a locking structure e.g. a center strut ratchet type mechanism screw locking arm combinations thereof that can be integral with or separate from the remainder of the expandable support device . The expandable support device can be locked into the expanded position by filing the expandable support device with cement filler bone chips calcium sulfate coralline hydroxyapatite Biocoral tricalcium phosphate calcium phosphate PMMA bone morphogenic proteins other materials described herein or combinations thereof.

In certain embodiments the cement can be radiopaque and can rapidly harden after application. The cement can also have a sufficiently low viscosity to allow injection of the cement through an appropriate cannula to the damage site. One example of bone cement that is suitable for use with certain embodiments disclosed herein is the OsseoFix Radiopaque Bone Cement available from Alphatec Spine Inc.

The first engagement element can attach to the proximal end of the expandable support device . The first engagement element can be an abutment. The second engagement element can attach to the threaded portion at the distal end of the expandable support device . The second engagement element can be a threaded outer surface. The expandable support device can have a threaded inner radius for example that can be configured to engage the threaded outer surface of the second engagement element

Examples of methods and devices for deploying expandable support devices are disclosed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 456 602 incorporated herein in its entirety.

The expandable support devices shown above can be surgically inserted into a damaged site by any of the methods disclosed in detail above. In a particular embodiment the expandable support device is surgically inserted into a vertebral body and fixed in place by using for example bone cement in order to repair a compression fracture. An attachable member for example a polyaxial screw or other suitable spinal fixation device is then attached to the expandable support device as discussed above and further below. The attachable member can then be used to attach support any number of orthopedic devices.

In one embodiment after the expandable support device has been deployed a pedicle screw such as described above can be attached to the proximal end of the expandable support device . The deployment tool can be removed by unthreading the distal tip of the deployment rod from the expandable support device . A pedicle screw having a threaded end can be delivered over the K wire or through the working cannula in some embodiments aligning the distal end of the polyaxial screw with the proximal end of the deployed implant and threading the polyaxial pedicle screw onto the expandable support device using a suitable screw driving tool preferably an Allen wrench not shown . In some embodiments multiple pedicle screws can be delivered to adjacent vertebra with fixation rods being secured to the pedicle screws to provide fixation to the adjacent vertebra. Each of these pedicle screws may be attached to an expandable implant in the vertebral body or alternatively some of the pedicle screws may be delivered directly into the pedicle bone without use of the expandable implant.

In an alternative embodiment a hollow pedicle screw and expandable support device can be inserted into the patient simultaneously. In this embodiment the polyaxial pedicle screw is attached to the expandable support device and then the screw implant system is attached to an alternative implant inserter not shown . The polyaxial pedicle screw is preferably attached to the implant via screw threads. However in some embodiments the polyaxial pedicle screw can be permanently attached to the implant. The alternative inserter is configured to have a screw driving connection preferably an Allen wrench type connection to apply a rotational torque to the polyaxial pedicle screw as the screw implant is inserted into the vertebra. In some embodiments the alternative implant inserter can also grip or hold the polyaxial pedicle screw by contacting the polyaxial pedicle screw and or applying pressure to grip the polyaxial pedicle screw. In other embodiments the alternative implant inserter can grip or hold the polyaxial pedicle screw via magnetic force. The inserter with the screw implant together may be delivered over a K wire and or through a working cannula into a drilled bore of a pedicle into a vertebral body as described above. The inserter can be cannulated to help facilitate this process. The bore preferably has a diameter slightly larger than the unexpanded diameter of the implant but smaller than the outer threads of the pedicle screw. As the inserter delivers the screw and implant into the bore the inserter can be rotated to cause the screw threading to engage the pedicle bone.

The pedicle screw of this embodiment preferably has an inner lumen configured to receive an actuator as described above configured to deploy the implant. The inserter may also be hollow and have a similar structure to inserter described above to receive the actuator therein. Once the pedicle screw and implant are advanced to a desired position in the pedicle and vertebral body the actuator can be rotated to deploy the implant. The actuator can then be removed from the lumen of the pedicle screw and inserter and bone cement may be delivered through the lumen of the inserter and pedicle screw to the expanded implant. The inserter may then be detached from the pedicle screw and removed from the patient leaving the pedicle screw and expanded implant.

Imaging methods can be used in combination with the methods for deploying the expandable support device described herein. For example imaging methods can be used to guide the expandable support device during deployment. The expandable support device can have imaging markers e.g. echogenic radiopaque for example to signal the three dimensional orientation and location of the expandable support device during use of an imaging modality. Imaging modalities include ultrasound magnetic resonance imaging MRI fMRI computer tomography CT scans and computed axial tomography CAT scans radiographs x rays fluoroscopy diffuse optical tomography elastography electrical impedance tomography optoacoustic imaging positron emission tomography and combinations thereof.

It is apparent to one skilled in the art that various changes and modifications can be made to this disclosure and equivalents employed without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Elements expressed herein as singular or plural can be used in the alternative i.e. singular as plural and plural as singular . Elements shown with any embodiment are exemplary for the specific embodiment and can be used in combination on or with other embodiments within this disclosure.

