---

title: Method and apparatus for secure energy delivery
abstract: A solar power conversion device has an embedded security module for creating trusted metering data in relation to power generated and for delivering it to a metering data output. The security module might for example be constructed as an integrated circuit card constructed using semiconductor chip fabrication and assembly techniques to be integral with the solar power conversion device. The device might comprise more than one solar cell mounted on a panel to form an array. There may further be provided a panel management module for collating data, for instance from multiple cells, prior to transmission over a network via the metering output. The panel management module might comprise for example a subscriber identity module and the metering data output may provide associated mobile telephone endpoint technology so that the metering data can be transmitted over an air interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09515522&OS=09515522&RS=09515522
owner: TRUSTED RENEWABLES LIMITED
number: 09515522
owner_city: Saxmundham, Suffolk
owner_country: GB
publication_date: 20100106
---
This application is the U.S. national phase of International Application No. PCT GB2010 000011 filed 6 Jan. 2010 which designated the U.S. and claims priority to GB Application No. 0900082.9 filed 6 Jan. 2009 the entire contents of each of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to apparatus and a method for secure energy delivery. It finds particular application in the delivery of electrical energy by solar panels or arrays.

Known photovoltaic PV solar arrays are often comparatively simple devices particularly suited to produce electricity where simplicity and potential ruggedness is highly valued. They can be used in controlled environments such as within the boundary of a property and often on a roof or they can be used in much less secure locations such as by the roadside to power emergency telephone equipment.

They are often associated with a management unit known as a Maximum Peak Power Tracking MPPT controller which maximises power transfer between the solar panel and a battery or other energy storage device. Such a management unit would normally incorporate a microprocessor which also allows additional intelligence and communication functions to be associated with individual panels.

It is known to pass the electrical output of a solar panel through a metering device to a remote upstream server via a communications link and this can be done for various reasons to measure and report the output to gauge efficiency or for maintenance purposes. U.S. Pat. No. 7 412 338 entitled SOLAR POWERED RADIO FREQUENCY DEVICE WITHIN AN ENERGY SENSOR SYSTEM describes such a system where a solar panel powers a module consisting of a microprocessor memory RF transceiver and antenna. There are risks associated with such an arrangement however such as falsification of the measured output for example where used to assess a contribution to a local or national power grid or to obtain carbon credits or that the panel itself will be stolen.

A secure metering solution is described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 188 003 entitled SYSTEM AND METHOD FOR SECURING ENERGY MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS . This describes a power management architecture with multiple secure intelligent electronic devices IEDs distributed throughout a power distribution system to measure and manage the flow and consumption of power from the system. These communicate securely to upstream back end servers and secure metering solutions include encryption and authentication based on Public Key Encryption. Authentication prevents fraudulent substitution or spoofing of IEDs and includes parameters such as time date stamps digital certificates physical locating algorithms including cellular triangulation serial or tracking IDs which could include geographic location and non repudiation.

According to a first aspect of embodiments of the invention there is provided a solar power conversion device for receiving solar radiation and converting it to an electrical output the device having embedded therein 

i an electrical output measuring arrangement for measuring the electrical output to provided metering data 

ii an information processing device which provides a security module for associating security information with the metering data to create trusted metering data and

iii a metering output for delivering the trusted metering data from the solar power conversion device.

Previously known arrangements are based on well understood software applications for ensuring security. However it has been said that a software system cannot validate itself . In embodiments of the present invention trusted hardware is embedded into a solar power conversion device therefore being physically very close to the point of energy conversion and significantly improving integrity of the metering data.

Preferably the metering output is adapted for connection to a communication link such as a network connection. The metering output may therefore provide a communications module for sending the metering data on the communication link.

Embodiments of the invention allow a solar power conversion device for example a solar panel or array of solar cells to be remotely monitored. Having an embedded output measuring arrangement makes it significantly more difficult to falsify metering data than where the electrical output of the device goes through a separate metering component and the inclusion of an embedded security module offers several further options including for example the use of trusted digital certificates.

This trusted security hardware the security module could be based upon known tamper resistant smart card cores which can be used for data storage tamper detection and key pair husbandry as well as identification authentication and encryption of uplink data streams.

The solar power conversion device may also have embedded therein a management module connected to receive trusted metering data from at least one security module and to deliver data to the metering output. In such embodiments the management module need not take part in the security aspects of the energy generation information which are provided by the security module.

A key benefit of embodiments of the invention is that unauthorised tampering with the secure hardware the security module or anything associated with it can be arranged to trigger a permanent change in the behaviour of the panel and the attributes of information transmitted via the metering output.

Where the solar panel comprises an array of solar cells an output measuring arrangement and security module might be embedded in at least one or more of the solar cells themselves and preferably in each of them to provide maximum security.

Preferably the device further comprises a receiver and the information processing device is arranged to respond to incoming communications such that the device can be managed remotely either via the communication link or separately. The receiver might be provided for example in the communications module. The device can be arranged as part of an integrated communications network for example connected to a remote management console one or more other power generating devices and or to one or more power consuming devices.

Embedded in this context is intended to mean carried in or on the same mechanical unit for instance being structurally integrated with a solar cell mounted on a solar panel and or sealed within the same weatherproof containment as the solar power conversion device. More preferably embedded is also used in an electrical sense that there are only permanent electrical connections between the device and the embedded components these usually being direct. This might be achieved at least partially by printed circuit or hybrid circuit technology for example or by semiconductor fabrication and or assembly techniques such as epitaxy and flip chip mounting during the original production of the solar power conversion device. The use of integrated semiconductor technology can offer a very high level of integration which has significant advantages in terms of reliability and ease of use in the field.

Preferably the security module comprises a type of trusted module which can generate trusted digital certificates in relation to the metering data and could then support secure processes such as the automatic awarding of carbon credits in accordance with how much renewable electricity has been generated.

For communications purposes the information processing device might be configured as a thin client linked to a server over a secure network by suitable telecommunications techniques. There may be many solar power conversion devices linked to the same server over the same network or connected networks offering a new family of solar panels which could be supported over a communications infrastructure offering services such as centrally managed solar powered lighting or local public or private communications facilities.

According to a second aspect of embodiments of the invention there is provided a power conversion device for converting power to an electrical output the device comprising a substrate carrying integrated circuit components the components comprising 

i an electrical output measuring arrangement for measuring the electrical output to provide metering data 

ii an information processing device which provides a security module for associating security information with the metering data to create trusted metering data and

In embodiments of the invention according to its second aspect the same principle is applied as in embodiments of the invention in its first aspect which is the structurally integral security module in this case provided in integrated circuitry.

It is to be understood that any feature described in relation to any one embodiment or aspect of the invention may be used alone or in combination with other features described and may also be used in combination with one or more features of any other of the embodiments or aspects or any combination of any other of the embodiments or aspects if appropriate.

Referring to a secure solar panel according to an embodiment of the invention comprises arrays of PV cells of known type arranged in modules on the panel .

Each PV module is made up of a number of PV cells attached to a backplane and to generate a useful voltage and current in known manner the cells are connected in a series parallel configuration. The PV modules are connected in a series parallel configuration on a support panel or backing material and linked together by flat wires or metal ribbons not shown for connection to an external load to provide the solar panel . Often this is in conjunction with a battery in which case a unit such as a Maximum Peak Power Tracking MPPT controller is used to maximise power transfer between the solar panel and the battery . The battery is then connected to the load via a power output link . The solar panel in this known type of assembly can be encapsulated in a clear polymer or glass to provide a weatherproof containment. If encapsulated in polymer it may be protected at least over the area of the cells with a sheet of tempered glass to form a weatherproof sealed unit.

A suitable MPPT controller for use as above is described for example in Solar Panel Peak Power Tracking System by Anderson Dohan Sikora published by Worcester Polytechnic Institute MA 01609 United States as Project Number MQP SJB 1A03 in March 2003.

Referring to solar cell development has currently reached what is called the third generation but the principle of operation has not changed since the first generation. A typical first generation PV cell is generally embodied as a plurality of large area high quality p n junction devices or diodes created in bulk single crystal silicon wafers . Electrical power is picked up by ohmic metal semiconductor contacts which are connected to each of the n type and p type sides of the junction devices on either side of the wafers. To provide one of the contacts each PV cell carries on one main surface a thin metal grid of fingers and inter cell bus bars . To provide the other of the contacts each PV cell on its other main surface carries a metallic electrode contact not shown which often covers the entire surface and can also be used to mount the wafer . Each PV cell can be approximately modelled in electrical terms as a current source in parallel with a diode. Second generation PV cells are generally thin film devices deposited onto backing materials such as glass or ceramics and third generation PV cells are aimed at improving electrical efficiency without unduly increasing costs. These second and third generation cells tend to be less expensive to make because they involve cheaper materials or smaller amounts of expensive materials.

Referring to in an arrangement for a solar panel to charge a battery the MPPT controller consists of a closed loop switching type power control system. This has a digital controller which acts on monitoring data to optimise the solar panel output in known fashion by use of a boost converter . For example a voltage current VI monitor monitors the solar panel voltage and current continuously allowing maximum power to be extracted under different conditions of sunlight. A battery sensor also monitors the state of charge of the battery so that it is not overcharged. The VI monitor and the battery sensor deliver their data to the digital controller which uses it in sending instructions to the boost converter . Reverse current in the event that the voltage of the battery exceeds the output voltage of the solar panel is blocked by a reverse current block .

Referring to in a secure solar panel according to an embodiment of the invention functionality can be added to the solar panel and or to at least one or preferably each of a number of solar cells making up the panel . For example a panel management module can be embedded in the solar panel which module encompasses at least some functions of the MPPT controller . Alternatively at least some functions such as the VI monitor can be embedded in a power reporting module in the respective solar cells .

Importantly secure data functionality can be embedded in the panel management module and the power reporting module so that data delivered from a solar panel can be trusted and identifiable. The structure of the solar cells and or the solar panel can be exploited in this respect. Either or both of the panel management module and the power reporting module can thus provide a security module for associating security information with data to create trusted data.

In the embodiment described below a VI monitor is provided in a power reporting module embedded in each of the solar cells for measuring and reporting in secure manner via an internal bi directional data bus the power generated by its respective cell . This provides metering data with respect to the solar cells . The internal bi directional data bus is connected to a panel management module embedded in the solar panel where the metering data can be stored collated and or onwardly reported.

The solar panel carrying the panel management module is referred to below as an intelligent solar panel . It is envisaged that each solar panel will always contain a panel management module . However there may be advantages in sharing one module between several panels or equally having several panels containing respective modules operating on a peer to peer basis via a built in secure communications capability.

Referring to the solar cells in the PV module each deliver their power onto a power bus the bus being connected in a suitable manner to the panel management module . At the same time each power reporting module reports the power output of its cell as metering data via a bi directional data bus to the panel management module using a suitable data protocol. In a feedback loop the outputs of the individual cells can each be controlled by the panel management module which communicates with the power reporting modules via the bi directional data bus . This exploits functionality that might previously have been associated with the MPPT controller . Thus the power reporting modules not only report the power output of their cells but can also modify the power outputs of the cells in response to commands from the management module .

The PV module is encapsulated in a containment material shown in dotted outline in which seals and protects the solar panel as a whole prior to installation. The containment material thus encapsulates the solar cells and the power reporting modules and the management module are embedded therewith in a single physical unit. As shown in the full extent of the solar panel is not shown there potentially being additional PV modules mounted on a support panel not shown explicitly in and connected to the management module . The containment material may comprise a known material for use in protecting solar panels such as a clear polymer which will transmit solar radiation to the cells and also allow an air interface to mobile communications technology associated with the management module and further described below.

Each power reporting module might itself be powered by its respective solar cell but another arrangement might power the reporting module from the panel management module for example using the power bus or a DC component on the bi directional data bus .

The reporting module can be constructed using tamper resistant and or tamper evident technology such as that used in integrated circuit cards described below with reference to . In addition to measuring and reporting the power output of its cell this technology allows module to hold secure data containing identity codes IDs and the capability to provide digitally signed responses in relation to the modules.

Referring to the power reporting module in an embodiment of the invention has two primary sub modules these being the VI monitor and a digital metering controller which provides some of the functionality offered by the digital controller previously provided as part of the MPPT controller . The VI monitor in more detail comprises a current sensor a voltage sensor and an analogue to digital converter ADC which has a coding capability. The ADC will be chosen or configured to give a power measurement output in a suitable format for the digital metering controller .

Suitable lossless measurement circuits that could be used as the current sensor are known and described for example by Rincon Mora Gabriel and Zadeh Hassan in Current Sensing Techniques for DC DC Converters. which appeared in the 45th Midwest Symposium on Circuits and Systems 2002 published 4 7 Aug. 2002 Volume 2 on pages II 577 II 580. Suitable voltage sensing circuits for use as the voltage sensor are also known and well understood.

Referring to outputs from the power reporting module not shown in to the panel management module are 

The power reporting module thus provides a security module for associating security information with metering data to create trusted metering data and a metering output with respect to its associated solar cell for sending the trusted metering data to the panel management module via the bi directional data bus . The trusted metering data is a combination of the digital coded power measurement reading with the secure data mentioned above.

The panel management module provides further functions previously provided by the MPPT controller . For example it provides a boost converter a reverse current block a battery sensor and a digital management controller . The boost converter reverse current block and the battery sensor all provide their known functions with respect to a MPPT controller . The digital management controller provides the functions of the digital controller of the MPPT controller which are missing from the digital metering controller of the power reporting module . That is it receives power measurement data from the VI sensor and battery monitoring data from the battery sensor and uses it in controlling power delivery to the battery via the boost converter . The battery sensor will generally provide current data about the state of the battery preferably associated with a battery ID so that data can be collated for a specific battery over its lifetime.

Importantly however the digital management controller of the panel management module can also initiate additional functions such as sending the power measurement and battery monitoring data outwards from the solar panel in a secure manner using for example a communications network that may be based on mobile telephone technology. That is it also provides a metering output for trusted metering data in this case from the solar panel as a whole and can potentially add a second level of security based on mobile telephone technology.

The additional functions are those typical of a device used in a mobile phone or a personal digital assistant PDA though it would be possible to base them on the capabilities of a high end personal computer. This has the advantage of using tried and tested software routines developed with industry standard software and operating systems which can be configured to provide both solar panel management capability and auxiliary functions. The additional functions are further described below with reference to .

The function of the battery sensor may be extended to monitor the power supplied to the load via the power output link as well as to the panel management module and the additional functions in light of their power requirements. This data might be used by the digital management controller to provide battery backup to support operation when the solar panel does not generate sufficient power. Data coming from the battery sensor may also include any unique information held in the battery . Such information might include a serial number but could equally encompass a wide range of indicators associated with the health or status of the battery . Additionally the digital management controller may process information transmitted in the power measurement data in conjunction with information transmitted in the battery monitoring data to assess the health of individual solar cells or other factors that can be derived from this information. The digital management controller may then communicate control signals back to the power reporting module to compensate for changes in performance of the cells for example through ageing effects.

Referring to a technology that lends itself to provision of the digital metering controller in the power reporting module is that of the chip used in integrated circuit cards ICC s . The Universal Integrated Circuit Card UICC smart card chip used in GSM Global System for Mobile and UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunications System mobile networks is a particular example. Such a chip can receive input data process it and deliver it as output data and supports data processing functions such as encryption as well as securely holding typically a few hundred kilobytes of data.

A suitable ICC operating system OS might be either native or Java Card which is based on a subset of the Java programming language specifically targeted at embedded devices. Java is a programming language originally released in 1995 as a core component of Sun Microsystems Java platform. The advantage of a native OS is that the code can be specifically optimised for a particular application such as described here though the Java Card OS may equally be applicable.

Importantly ICCs can contain a security system with tamper resistant and or tamper evident properties such as a secure cryptoprocessor secure file system and identity features and can provide security services such as confidentiality of information in the memory. Data can be transferred to a central administration system using a card reading device and one of the advantages of including a device typical of that used in a mobile phone for the digital management controller of the panel management module is that the data transfer standards between it and the power reporting module are well understood.

The internal structure of an ICC is based around an internal bus to which is connected a central processing unit CPU a read only memory ROM an electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM a random access memory RAM and an input output I O circuit . The ROM stores programs for executing various card functions. The EEPROM contains individual card user information. The RAM temporarily stores data required for data processing and the I O circuit supports communications with external equipment.

An ICC will also usually have power and ground connections a reset terminal for initialising the CPU and a clock terminal for receiving an external clock signal.

It is an option that the internal bus of the ICC is connected directly to the bi directional data bus between the power reporting modules of the solar cells and the panel management module of the solar panel . This bi directional data bus might for example use a simple data transmission protocol such as that defined in ISO IEC 7816 3. However data is alternatively input via the I O circuit and will be transmitted within the ICC on the internal bus using known ICC protocols.

Referring to the additional functions that can be initiated by the digital management controller of the panel management module are generally organised by a processor . The digital management controller may have sufficient processing power to fulfil the functions of the processor as well as those previously described in which case the two can be supported by a single device which typically might employ a RISC reduced instruction set computer architecture. The processor has a bi directional data bus connecting it to the digital management controller and an internal data bus connecting it to an air interface . The air interface allows the panel management module to be managed remotely.

The additional functions primarily have the purpose of supporting trusted communication to and from the solar panel for the purpose of secure management and reporting. Units supporting the additional functions are 

The identity module is a tamper resistant and or tamper evident silicon chip which includes a unique identifier and a secret key to provide a trusted root for any required intelligent functionality for the processor . In order for the identity module to provide this functionality it must be either fully integrated with the processor or if physically implemented as a separate chip the connection between the processor and the identity module should be by a dedicated secure data bus . This allows a solar panel to support functionality recommended by bodies such as the Trusted Computing Group TCG .

The panel management module thus also can be viewed as a security module for associating security information with data to create trusted data.

In a variation the identity provided by the identity module can be derived from a collection of identities of power reporting modules of the solar cells through appropriate conversion such as a one way hash function SHA 1.

It might be noted in the above and elsewhere in this description that where a USIM is referred to it may well be the case that an equivalent identity module might be used and in particular a SIM Subscriber Identity Module .

Suitable examples of arrangements for providing an identity module include a Trusted Platform Module TPM in accordance with recommendations of The Trusted Computing Group TCG an Intel Identity Capable Platform ICP or the ARM version TrustZone. These allow high value trusted services to be provided by the processor and include secure access to any device network or service through a secure hardware execution zone. They can operate in conjunction with the secure power reporting modules embedded in each solar cell . For example the identity module can support downloadable USIM style soft credentials for delivery to the digital metering controller of a secure power reporting module or indeed to the digital management controller of a panel management module of a solar panel for additional secure functions.

The Trusted Computing Group TCG develop define and promote open standards for hardware enabled trusted computing and security technologies including hardware building blocks and software interfaces across multiple platforms peripherals and devices 

Intel s Identity Capable Platform ICP technology is a client based approach to enabling flexible access to any device network or service through a trusted environment. The technology is designed to work with mobile telephones laptop computers personal digital assistants and other personal and business devices enabling identities to be shared transported and locally managed and

ARM TrustZone is a safe execution environment that enables semiconductor and original equipment developers to incorporate their own application specific security measures in tandem with their own hardware and software IP. TrustZone software components provide a secure execution environment and basic security services such as cryptography safe storage and integrity checking to provide a platform for addressing security issues at the application and user levels.

The identity module may in practice be fully integrated into the structure of the processor . This would have no impact on the functionality or purpose but might obviate the need for the dedicated secure data bus .

The memory module provides the ability to attach external removable flash memory such as an SD secure digital card. This allows the solar panel to securely store locally gathered or downloaded data in addition to any hard wired memory provided by the processor . The SD card flash memory is of sufficient size for locally gathered data to include video or other digitally encoded images. The identity module would allow this information to be encrypted.

The I O module supports suitable standard bidirectional interfaces to allow external devices to be connected to the solar panel . This allows wired connections such as those based on USB Universal Serial Bus Ethernet and ADSL Asymmetric Digital Subscriber Line broadband technologies to be added to the panel so the processor can communicate with other hardware or networks connected to it.

These modules can operate independently and receive power from the battery when the solar panel is not generating electricity.

The GSM baseband and RF module also interfaces to a USIM card so that if desired a GSM 3G 3Generation mobile subscription can be incorporated into the intelligent solar panel functionality. As well as managing GSM 3G mobile subscriptions if desired the GSM module could support a SATSA for J2ME Java Specification Request JSR . This would permit high speed communication between the USIM card and the processor to allow cryptographic security features running on the card to be accessed by the software routines running on the processor .

The SATSA for J2ME JSR 177 is a Java based specification for an application programming interface API defining a Security and Trust Services API for Java Platform Micro Edition Java ME devices. The SATSA extends the security features for the Java ME previously known as the J2ME platform through the addition of cryptographic APIs digital signature service and user credential management.

The two radio modules provide suitable interfaces to standard WiFi WiMAX or any other emerging wireless standard circuits. These modules include high power output transistors and can include planar antenna structures so that the solar panel can form part of a communications system. Suitable antenna structures are disclosed for example in the paper Investigation of planar antennas with photovoltaic solar cells for mobile communications by Henze N. Weitz M. Hofmann P. Bendel C. Kirchhof J. Fruchting H. published in Volume 1 of the proceedings of the 15th IEEE International Symposium entitled Personal Indoor and Mobile Radio Communications held in 2004 5 8 September at pages 622 626.

The GPS module allows location information to be embedded in encrypted data transmitted by the GSM and radio modules and or the I O module . Other location sensitive arrangements could be used but GPS technology is already well established and subject to standards.

A significant advantage of the security architecture developed through the combination of the power reporting modules the digital management controller and or the additional functions is that the same principles can be extended to a wide variety of different kinds of transducers that might be attached to the solar panel via wired or wireless connections. That is the solar panel may have attached thereto a transducer for generating data in relation to a measurable external variable for onward transmission as trusted measured data by use of one or both of the security module and the management module. This will allow the processor to measure for example various wavelengths of solar radiation and detect other kinds of ionising and non ionising radiation vibration sound or in fact anything which might support secure external data gathering powered by an intelligent photo voltaic array.

One of the benefits of embedding standardised ICC circuit architectures into each PV cell to provide the power reporting module is that it can be personalised with a unique identity and the data output encrypted with a secret key. This creates a trusted platform integrated into each PV cell which can be configured to generate trusted energy certificates in relation to the amount of power the cell has generated. These will be gathered by the panel management module on the solar panel and can be used to report information about how much renewable energy has been created from each panel .

When PV cells containing these power reporting modules are manufactured or deployed each trusted module can be personalised with a unique digital identity so that a solar panel containing these cells can be uniquely identified when it is in use.

Because a solar panel consists of a plurality of these cells each solar panel might be given a unique identity Iand secret key Kbased perhaps on one cell designated as the master identifier . The identity and secret key of each other power reporting module could then contain this serial number plus location digit for example 1 2 3 etc. Because this identity is deeply embedded in the structure of the PV cells in tamper resistant and or tamper evident silicon it would be very hard to alter without destroying the panel .

There is great advantage in treating the intelligent solar panel as the equivalent of a mobile handset as this allows ETSI European Telecommunications Standards Institute and 3GPP 3Generation Partnership Project standards to be re used in an innovative manner for managed renewable energy generation. The unique digital identity Iof a power reporting module could be based on an International Mobile Equipment Identity IMEI as specified in 3GPP Technical Standard 23.003. The IMEI 14 digits plus check digit or IMEISV 16 digits include information on the origin model and serial number of a mobile device and is used by the GSM network to identify valid devices.

Optionally because the processor is associated with an identity module this can provide a second completely separate unique identifier Iand a second secret key K. This means that an intelligent solar panel which includes a panel management module containing this functionality may itself become a trusted platform with its own separate identity I independent and alongside the master identifier Iderived from the cells . This would allow information for example received by the processor from external devices via an I O module to be separately encrypted and transmitted onwards to a separate network based server such as a trusted solar panel management platform as shown in and further discussed below. This may provide significant benefits where an intelligent panel is being used to gather data securely for or by a third party using the unique identifier Iand secret key Kwhere it is not desirable to divulge the unique identity Iand secret key Kto the third party.

It should be noted that the USIM is another separate and optional trusted platform specifically used to authenticate the panel to a GSM 3G mobile operator network if it is intended to mobile enable the panel using the GSM module . Here the International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI number contained in the USIM is another unique identifier this time issued by the mobile operator. In this case for security purposes either the unique intelligent PV array identifier Ior Ican be locked to the IMSI. This has the benefit that a particular mobile enabled intelligent PV array can only work with a particular mobile operator subscription.

On the other hand if a SATSA JSR 177 is used high speed communication between the USIM card and the processor will allow cryptographic security features running on the card owned by the mobile operator to be accessed by the software routines running on the processor .

Referring to integrated circuit techniques can be readily used to create the circuitry required in the power reporting module or indeed the panel management module . Most of the surface area of the cell is used to create the photo voltaic p n junction devices and the electrical connections. These are supported on the shared substrate provided in known manner by the wafer . The power reporting module may be located at any convenient position on the same wafer .

Great advantage may be derived from basing the circuit topology of the power reporting module on that used for ICC smart cards to create a trusted computing platform out of the power reporting module as described above. ICC smart card circuits are usually fabricated using tamper resistant or tamper evident integrated circuit technology and this can be used for the power reporting module making a novel application of tamper resistant and or tamper evident ICC fabrication technology. An example of a suitable fabrication process is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 369 299. A typical manufacturer of these chips is Infineon Technologies AG based in Neubiberg near Munich Germany.

The structures described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 369 299 are intended to prevent for example the reverse engineering of an integrated circuit by removal in turn of consecutive layers of the circuit and or unauthorised reading of or tampering with data stored. In an embodiment the integrated circuit has a passivation layer with bonding pads. A pattern of metal on the passivation layer covers some parts of the integrated circuit providing active circuitry while exposing other parts. A cap layer then encapsulates the pattern of metal still leaving exposed some parts of the integrated circuit providing active circuitry. Openings in the cap layer allow external electrical connection to be made to the bonding pads via the pattern of metal. The material of the cap layer is chosen so that attempts to remove it will generally destroy active circuitry by damaging the passivation layer and or elements of the circuitry such as silicon carbide or nitride. Techniques such as plasma etching to remove the cap layer may also affect electrical charges stored in the integrated circuit. If the cap layer is successfully removed the pattern of metal will still make inspection of the integrated circuit difficult and the metal material is chosen so that attempts to remove it are also very likely to damage the active circuitry.

Referring to in embodiments of the present invention a tamper resistant or tamper evident integrated circuit of the type described above used as the power reporting module or panel management module might be integrated with the p n junction devices used for power generation not shown in but carried by the PV module for instance by the known technique of flip chip mounting onto the same substrate during fabrication by being otherwise created in situ on the same substrate being embedded into the substrate and or being encapsulated with the p n junction devices in the same weatherproof containment and or physically protective material such as a polymer or polymer based coating and or glass material.

As the power reporting module is closely associated with the p n junction devices used for power generation it can be powered from the PV cell itself and because this technology consumes very little power it will not significantly compromise the power generating efficiency of the PV cell . This means that unless the power reporting module is required to function when the solar cell is not generating electricity it will not require any external connections for its positive power supply and ground connections. A reset terminal for initialising the CPU and a clock terminal for receiving an external clock signal however may be required and might for example be connected to the digital management controller of the panel management module on the solar panel in a suitable manner.

The panel management module can be fabricated in the same manner as the power reporting module . However it is supported on the backing panel of the solar panel as a substrate shared with the PV cells rather than on a wafer of a PV cell .

A key inventive step described in the above embodiment is to embed one or more secure processors into a solar panel so it becomes a trusted platform which can be used to self certify the amount of electricity it has produced. The embedded communications circuits allow such a panel to be remotely managed and monitored as well as becoming part of an integrated communications network. Furthermore the embedded GPS receiver allows the location of the panel from which the renewable energy is being produced to be recorded. Embedded in this context means for example being mounted onto or into the panel by use of known semiconductor chip technologies such as by bonding. In practice this will also usually mean containment in the same weatherproof coating as the panel .

By using a very high level of integration the intelligent solar panel becomes essentially a single component. This will have significant advantages in terms of reliability and ease of use in the field.

Referring to the panel management module on the panel can be configured as a thin client linked to a network based server providing a trusted solar panel management platform . Local wired devices e.g. devices shown in also may be connected to panel . From a communications perspective there are several options for a secure connection to the trusted solar panel management platform using both fixed and radio networks. The arrangement shown in is just one example where an always on cellular data connection is used for the intelligent solar panel to access the Internet .

A local wireless access network could use either licensed or unlicensed spectrum for the radio bearer or for that matter any combination. The same goes for the data connection for internet access and this flexibility allows the intelligent solar panel to accommodate different technical and commercial architectures according to circumstances or perhaps new ones based on a combination of old and new ideas.

An intelligent solar panel will now be described as part of a GSM or UMTS cellular device for communicating over a network run by a MVNO Mobile Virtual Network Operator . A publication covering MVNOs was written by Michelle de Lussanet et al under the title Should You Become An MVNO and published by Forrester Research in September 2001. A MVNO is generally a service provider who enters a commercial agreement with a licensed mobile operator. In the context of the present invention the service provider for example operates the intelligent solar panels in a particular region. The intelligent solar panel is essentially the equivalent of a mobile handset activated by a mobile subscription linked to a USIM . To reduce the number of these subscriptions to a manageable level it may be appropriate for only one panel in an installation to be mobile enabled with other panels securely linked to it via their radio modules or I O module . This enabled panel then acts as a secure communications node for the whole installation.

The USIM card either slotted in or hard wired and the GSM module manage the device MVNO GSM 3G mobile subscription. At power up the panel will be automatically authenticated to a cellular network in a similar manner to a mobile phone. Secure credentials programmed into the USIM card include a secret key K and the International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI number. This is in effect a unique user name which is checked with the account details held on the mobile operator s Home Location Register HLR or the 3GPP version called the Home Subscriber Subsystem HSS .

It should be noted that the GSM 3GPP cellular network is only used as an access network and the mobile operator s HLR HSS may not be required to take part in the secure management of the intelligent solar panels .

The solar panel is configured as a thin client linked to a trusted solar panel management platform via the Internet reached by an Internet access connection . The management platform contains a database of every deployed intelligent solar panel cross referenced to the embedded identity Iand or Iand stored at the power reporting module on each solar cell . It also contains details of registered locations cross referenced with a regular encrypted location fix obtained by the embedded GPS receiver . This allows techniques normally employed to disable stolen mobile phones to be used. If a panel is moved without a similar change to the location entry in the management platform for example if stolen an intelligent solar panel could register itself on a stolen grey list and perhaps adopt a different operating mode. This includes disabling the power generation capability.

One function of the client software running on the processor of the additional functions can include reporting how much electricity has been generated without the power from the panel having to pass through a separate meter. This could then support trusted processes such as the automatic awarding of carbon credits in accordance with how much renewable electricity had been generated. The panel management module thus can be viewed as a secondary security module for create trusted metering data.

This new family of solar panels can also provide additional spin offs which could include the provision of public or private radio based communications infrastructure and peripheral services such as centrally managed solar powered lighting.

Although the embodiments described herein relate to first generation PV arrays based on monocrystalline silicon substrates the same result can be achieved for second or third generation devices based on thin film or amorphous silicon or compound semiconductor devices. In this case the power reporting module can be embedded in the PV array using hybrid semiconductor techniques. It can still be powered from the PV cell itself.

Furthermore the trusted functionality and communications features of the power reporting module and the management module may be used in other forms of renewable energy generation to achieve the same result. For example a wind or water turbine or solar thermal panel might similarly contain a tamper resistant and or tamper evident power reporting module built deeply into the construction of the device which would be very hard to alter without destroying it.

In embodiments of the invention described above the power reporting module and the management module are described separately. However the functions of these two modules could be differently distributed. For example the power reporting module might be configured as the thin client referred to above. Also for example the functions of the two modules might be combined in one module constructed as a single integrated hybrid or printed circuit.

A key benefit of embodiments of the invention is that unauthorised tampering with any element of the secure hardware such as the power reporting module or any component of it or anything associated with it could trigger automatic security behaviour of the panel and or attributes of information transmitted by it. For example power generating properties of the panel might be partially or fully disabled or a signal might be sent to a backend server to trigger an alert.

