---

title: Systems and methods for enhancing management effectiveness
abstract: Provided is a computerized system and method of organizing and navigating through a management system in a hierarchal visualization structure. The elements of the management system are represented in cells in the form of a periodic table. The elements are classified and organized into one or more sets of groups stored at a first hierarchal level. Each cell displays general identification information regarding an element stored at a second hierarchal level including a textual abbreviation representing the element. Details regarding each element stored at third hierarchal level are displayed when one of the cells is selected. More specific information regarding each detail stored at a fourth hierarchal level is displayed when a detail is selected.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08886665&OS=08886665&RS=08886665
owner: 
number: 08886665
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20101115
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 261 039 filed Nov. 13 2009 U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 263 863 filed Nov. 24 2009 and U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 409 061 filed Nov. 1 2010 the content of which are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

The present invention relates to systems and methods for enhancing management effectiveness and more particularly for organizing user set sorting mechanisms and navigating through a management system in a visualization structure such as a hierarchal visualization structure.

In exemplary embodiments the systems and methods can comprise storing in processor readable memory s operatively connected to processor s database s that can comprise i electronic source content information that can comprise information that can represent at least some content information from at least one source ii electronic source element information that can comprise information that can represent at least one element associated with at least some information from at least one source and or iii electronic source hierarchal information that can comprise information that can represent hierarchal structure level s associated with element s associated with at least some information from at least one source.

In exemplary embodiments the systems and methods can further comprise associating by processor s electronic source content information electronic source element information and or electronic source hierarchal information such that information can be transmitted in response to requests from a first higher hierarchal level and or navigable to information at a lower hierarchal level. Further the systems and methods can comprise receiving via communication portal s operatively connected to processor s a first electronic request for information at the first hierarchal structure level from a computerized user system associated with the first user. Further still the systems and methods can comprise determining by processor s a first electronic response that can be at least responsive to the first electronic request for information at the first hierarchal structure level. Even further still the systems and methods can comprise transmitting via communication portal s the first electronic response to the computerized user system associated with the first user the first electronic response i populating and or ii generating a navigational hierarchal visualization structure that can be on a display of the computerized user system associated with the first user constructed of i a plurality of elements associated with at least some electronic source content and or ii a plurality of hierarchal structure levels associated with at least one of the plurality of element associated with at least some electronic source content.

In exemplary embodiments the first electronic response transmitted via communication portal s can further comprise a plurality of groups arranged at the first hierarchal level.

In exemplary embodiments the systems and methods can further comprise receiving via communication portal s operatively connected to processor s a second electronic request for information at a second hierarchal structure level from the computerized user system associated with the first user. The systems and methods can further comprise determining by processor s a second electronic response that can be at least responsive to the second electronic request for information at the second hierarchal structure level. And can also include transmitting via communication portal s the second electronic response to the computerized user system associated with the first user the second electronic response including general identification information regarding the element at a second hierarchal level.

In exemplary embodiments the general identification information transmitted via communication portal s can further comprise a textual symbol abbreviation full name and or brief description that can represent the element.

In exemplary embodiments the systems and methods can further comprise receiving via communication portal s operatively connected to processor s a third electronic request for information at a third hierarchal structure level from the computerized user system associated with the first user. The systems and methods can further comprise determining by processor s a third electronic response that can be at least responsive to the third electronic request for information at the third hierarchal structure level. And can also include transmitting via communication portal s the third electronic response to the computerized user system associated with the first user the third electronic response including general identification information regarding each element at the third hierarchal level.

In exemplary embodiments the systems and methods can further comprise receiving via communication portal s operatively connected to processor s a fourth electronic request for information at a fourth hierarchal structure level from the computerized user system associated with the first user. The systems and methods can further comprise determining by processor s a fourth electronic response that can be at least responsive to the fourth electronic request for information at the fourth hierarchal structure level. And can also include transmitting via the at least one communication devices the fourth electronic response to the computerized user system associated with the first user the fourth electronic response including more specific information regarding each detail stored at a fourth hierarchal level.

In exemplary embodiments the systems and methods can further comprise receiving via communication portal s operatively connected to processor s a fifth electronic request for information at a fifth hierarchal structure level from the computerized user system associated with the first user. The systems and methods can further comprise determining by processor s a fifth electronic response that can be at least responsive to the fifth electronic request for information at the fifth hierarchal structure level. And can also include transmitting via communication portal s the fifth electronic response to the computerized user system associated with the first user the fifth electronic response including quotes listings practice tools and or self auditing tools.

In exemplary embodiments the systems and methods can further comprise receiving via communication portal s operatively connected to processor s a fifth electronic request for information at a fifth hierarchal structure level from the computerized user system associated with the first user. The systems and methods can further comprise determining by processor s a fifth electronic response that can be at least responsive to the fifth electronic request for information at the fifth hierarchal structure level. And can also include transmitting via communication portal s the fifth electronic response to the computerized user system associated with the first user the fifth electronic response including more specific information.

In exemplary embodiments the fifth electronic response transmitted via communication portal s including more specific information can further comprise full text of quote or anecdote publications speeches case studies multimedia video sources user generated content user or editorial comments social media links or widgets links to other websites or blogs practice techniques and or exercises and or self auditing tools.

In exemplary embodiments the first electronic response transmitted via communication portal s can further comprise grouping of elements at the first hierarchal level according to at least one metric. The information at the first hierarchal structure transmitted via communication portal s can further comprise at least one metric that groups the elements within a set of categories of a management system. Also the at least one metric at the first hierarchal structure transmitted via communication portal s can group the elements i substantially along the visualizations structure s vertical axis ii substantially along the visualizations structure s horizontal axis and or iii substantially irregularly along the visualizations structure s vertical and or horizontal axis.

In exemplary embodiments the categories of the management system at the first hierarchal structure transmitted via communication portal s can further comprise key success factors and or particular levels of society.

In exemplary embodiments the navigational hierarchal visualization structure at the first hierarchal structure transmitted via communication portal s can be shaped similar in fashion to Mendeleev s periodic table of the elements. Also the visualization structure at the first hierarchal structure transmitted via communication portal s can be arranged by rows and or columns irregular boundaries and or visual identifiers.

In exemplary embodiments the navigational hierarchal visualization structure at the first hierarchal structure transmitted via communication portal s can further comprise a practice support tool and or a self auditing support that can be i displayed in at least one graphical user interface and or ii generated on at least one physical medium. Also the navigational hierarchal visualization structure at any of the hierarchal structures transmitted via communication portal s can include an at least one navigational map for showing where and or at what hierarchal level the user can be at. Further still the navigational hierarchal visualization structure at any of the hierarchal structures transmitted via communication portal s can further comprise information for enhancing management effectiveness.

In exemplary embodiments the electronic source content information can comprise information that can represent at least some content information from at least one source that can be obtained and or affiliated passively by user input. Also the electronic source content information can comprise information that can represent at least some content information from at least one source that can be obtained actively by a computer implemented process. Further still the electronic source content information can comprise information that can represent at least some content information from at least one source that can be affiliated actively by a computer implemented process.

In exemplary embodiments the electronic source content information can comprise information that can represent at least some content information from at least one source can include a link to that source such as but not limited to hyperlinks hypertext to a website and hyperlinks hypertext to articles and or any other form of link to a source.

The present invention generally relates to systems and methods for enhancing management effectiveness. The method or at least some of the steps thereof is implemented on and or through at least one computerized system for organizing and navigating through a management system in a hierarchal visualization structure. The system provides for amongst other things the development of new techniques for enhancing management effectiveness while also providing for example a visualization structure that can offer convenient access to and or classification of new and existing management theories and techniques.

In exemplary embodiments the visualization structure may be a management effectiveness map that for example denotes the fundamental elements of a management system. Further each element can comprise information that identifies a piece of the perspective and or way of thinking required for management effectiveness. Thus when each of the elements are put together on the map they can for example collectively constitute the common underpinning of management effectiveness tailored as appropriate for self management organizational management and management of society throughout the repeating cycle of vision execution and outcome of management.

Referring to the method for organizing and navigating through a management system in a hierarchal visualization structure discussed in greater detail below can be implemented on and or through a computerized management system and a computerized user system that can communicate with each other for example via a network and or can be further combined and or separated. For ease the computerized management system and the computerized user system are at times shown separately. This is merely for ease and is in no way meant to be a limitation.

As shown the computerized management system and the computerized user system can include but is not limited to and at least one communication portal and at least one graphical user interface and at least one user input and at least one speaker and at least one processor readable memory and at least one processor and at least one database and stored in processor readable memory and or any other reasonable components for use in communicating storing and processing any form of information e.g. data .

In some instances the graphical user interface and and the user input and can be substantially the same. For example the graphical user interface and and the user input and can be combined as a touch distribution system. The touch distribution system can be a display that can detect the presence and location of a touch within the distribution system area.

In exemplary embodiments the computerized management system and or the computerized user system can be for example a mobile phone computer tablet computer iPad iPod iPhone Smartphone and blackberry to name a few. In exemplary embodiments the management system and or the computerized user system can implement at least some if not all of the steps methods and or techniques described herein and or claimed steps methods and or techniques. For example the computerized management system and or the computerized user system can implement at least some if not all of the steps methods and or techniques described herein and or claimed steps by accessing at least one algorithm program and or process stored in the processor readable memory and and or database and stored in processor readable memory and processing the algorithm program and or process using the processor and . Even further still in exemplary embodiments at least some of the steps methods and or techniques described herein and or claimed steps can be required to be implemented by the computerized management system and or the computerized user system .

In exemplary embodiments any of the elements of the computerized management system and the computerized user system such as but not limited to the at least one communication portal and the at least one graphical user interface and the at least one user input and the at least one speaker and the at least one processor readable memory and the at least one processor and the at least one database and stored in processor readable memory and or any other reasonable components for use in communicating storing and processing any form of information e.g. data can be operatively connected each other.

Referring to the visualization structure may be a table displaying the elements of the management system for example in the graphical user interface of the computerized user system and or the computerized management system. The table may be organized as a periodic table for example to allow trends to be seen when the elements of the management system are organized in the table in a similar fashion to Mendeleev s periodic table of the elements. In some embodiments the table may be organized in other recognizable structures or patterns.

The elements within the table may be organized and or displayed into one or more groups of cells according to one or more metrics at a first hierarchal level. According to exemplary embodiments as shown in the elements may be organized and or displayed into first and second sets of groups according to first and second metrics respectively for example in the graphical user interface of the computerized user system and or the computerized management system. The first set of groups for the first metric in these examples are arranged based on the horizontal position of the elements in the table and the second set of groups for the second metric are arranged based on the vertical position of the elements in the table . However it is intended that the elements may be organized into any number of sets of groups.

In exemplary embodiments metrics can be user defined mechanisms which the user can control. For example although not shown the elements may be organized into any number of sets of groups such as but not limited to authors teaching areas methodologies over varies time frames company specific teachings company specific priorities any other combination thereof and or based on any other metric desired defined and or controlled by a user. By way of example if the user desires a visualization structure for enhancing management effectiveness based on management theories developed by an individual than the user can define and or control metrics that associated with that individual. In exemplary embodiments by defining the metrics the user can prioritize how things are shown based on for example user interest

Referring to the elements may be organized into a first set of groups for a first metric with each group including a block of cells representing elements falling within one of a first set of categories of the management system. The groups may be separated at one or more locations at generally vertical boundaries between columns of cells along the horizontal axis of the table. However the groups may have irregular boundaries across two or more columns. The groups also need not stretch across the entire table as otherwise shown in . Each group may be colored or shaded in a different color or tone to identify the group. When a group is selected the group may be highlighted such as by fading the remainder of the table into the background for example. In exemplary embodiments the cells may be organized into colored or shaded groups that include elements organized into particular key success factors defined by the management system.

Referring to the elements may be organized into a second set of groups for a second metric with each group including a block of cells representing elements falling within one of a second set of categories of the management system. The groups may be separated at one or more locations between rows of cells at generally horizontal boundaries along the vertical axis of the table. However the groups may have irregular boundaries across two or more rows. The groups also need not stretch across the entire table as otherwise shown in . When a group is selected the group may be highlighted such as by fading the remainder of the table into the background for example. In exemplary embodiments the cells may be organized into groups that include the elements organized into particular levels of society as defined by the management system.

Referring to the individual cells within the table may represent the various elements of the management system that can be displayed for example in the graphical user interface of the computerized user system and or the computerized management system. Each cell may include general identification information regarding the elements at a second hierarchal level such as a textual symbol or abbreviation that represents the element a full name of the element and or a brief representative description of the element .

Referring to when an element is selected such as for example by clicking a cell mousing over a cell or touching a cell on a touch screen one or more details for the selected element at a third hierarchal level may be displayed for example in the graphical user interface of the computerized user system and or the computerized management system. For example the details may be displayed in an animation a pop up window a separate webpage to name a few. In some exemplary embodiments the display of the details may include one or more cells which each display one or more of the details of the selected element of the management system such as a three dimensional cube of six square cells unfolded into a two dimensional plane.

For example the details at the third hierarchal level may comprise insights anecdotes and challenges and or tools from the management system as well as other intro audit and exercises from sources inside and or outside the management system that can be updated for present or future relevance. Further intro can include multimedia that amongst other things displays information about that specific element. The one or more cells may also include more specific items of information for each detail at a fourth hierarchal level such as quotes and listings from the management system outside quotes and listings from other sources that can be updated for present or future relevance inside quotes and listings practice tools and self auditing tools to name a few.

Referring to each of the more specific items of information may provide a link to an animation a pop up window or a separate webpage providing additional information at a fifth hierarchal level such as the full text of quote or anecdote from the management system on the selected item publications speeches case studies multimedia video sources user generated content user or editorial comments social media links or widgets links to other websites or blogs practice techniques and exercises self auditing tools to name a few for example in the graphical user interface of the computerized user system and or the computerized management system. In embodiments the information can include third party materials for example materials from the Aspen Institute Ethical Assessment and Trust Unlimited s Audit to name a few.

In some embodiments the system may include additional mechanisms for prioritizing the information for relevance and or policing the information for accuracy for example such as a CEO s priorities inside an organization. The information can be stored in databases stored in processor readable memory accessed using at least one processor selected information can be populated in at least one display. For example the details and information shown may be determined by various logic factors such as frequency of look up source date of most recent source date of last quote in blog media type fit with user s profile test sample rating number of comments visitor feedback priority assigned to name a few. The system may accuracy of the information may be controlled through editorial review of the information by the administrators contributors and or users of the system. However in other embodiments the accuracy and relevance of the details and more specific information may rely on the accountability contributors and or users without additional policing or prioritization mechanisms.

Referring to a practice tool and a self auditing tool are shown according to exemplary embodiments of the present invention respectively for example in the graphical user interface of the computerized user system and or the computerized management system. Practice tools can allow users to practice applying the concepts of each element of the management system to reinforce to understanding and facilitate improvement of management skills. Self auditing tools provide evaluation and scoring mechanisms that allow for assessment of management effectiveness for individuals groups or organizations and identification and for identification of areas of proficiency and inadequacy. In exemplary embodiments the self auditing tool can be scored based on user specific feedback enterprise specific value statements interaction and tracking.

The data generated from these tools may be contained locally provided to the system administrators shared between individuals groups or organizations and or shared openly across the system. By way of example information may be shared through online or in person classes networking between individuals or groups intra organizational networking inter organizational networking to name a few. The data may be analyzed to identify local or larger scale management tendencies which may allow for the creation and implementation of new techniques for improving management effectiveness in the identified areas.

Further at least one processor readable memory and and or the at least one database and stored in processor readable memory can store the information regarding the groups and to which each element is assigned at the first hierarchal level the general information and for each element at the second hierarchal level the one or more details for each element at the third hierarchal level the more specific information and at the fourth hierarchal level and the additional information at the fifth hierarchal level.

For example at least one processor readable memory and and or the at least one database and stored in processor readable memory can store information such as but not limited to i electronic source content information including information representing at least some content information from at least one source ii electronic source element information including information representing at least one element that can be associated with at least some information from at least one source iii electronic source hierarchal information including information representing at least one hierarchal structure level that can be associated with at least one element that can be associated with at least some information from and at least one source any further combination or separation thereof and or any other information. Further any of the information stored at least one processor readable memory and and or the at least one database and stored in processor readable memory can be associating by processor s with element s hierarchal level s group s any further combination or separation thereof and or any other aspect of the visualization structure. These associations can allow information to be transmitted in response to requests from a first higher hierarchal level and or navigable to information at a lower hierarchal level and or transmitted in response to requests at various hierarchal levels.

A navigational map as described in greater detail below can allow the user to navigate through the hierarchal levels of the table stored within the at least one processor readable memory and and or the at least database and . The graphical user interface and can provide a graphical display of the table and the available hierarchal options for navigation. The user at the computerized user system can connect to computerized management system for example directly through the network or over the network for example the Internet to access the table and to access a hierarchal structure may entail a user selecting an object a higher level to navigate to information at a lower level. Further it may be necessary for the user to return to the higher level before moving laterally for selection of another object at that level.

In exemplary embodiments by way of example referring back to the management system may be based on the management theories developed in the works of Peter F. Drucker stored in at least one database in processor readable memory that when selected can be accessed by at least one processor and populated and or generated in at least one display. Of course the management system may be include based on any management theories developed individuals corporations holding companies and or investment firms to name a few. In embodiments the user may access the collective intelligence of the multitude of sources and practices. For example the management system may include be based on any management theories developed by individuals such as but not limited to Peter F. Drucker Warren Bennis Roger Martin and Jim Collins to name a few or the history of individual enterprises such as DHL and RIM to name a few. For ease at times only the teachings of Peter F. Drucker are mentioned. This is merely for ease and is in no way meant to be a limitation.

By way of example the elements of effective management from a system based on the management theories of Peter F. Drucker a Drucker management system can be populated in the various cells of the table . Following this example the elements as shown are arranged horizontally in the table according to a first set of groups for a first metric defined as the key success factors such as enterprising lens theory of the enterprise and vision shared culture results driving practices meaningful results a legacy of societal betterment . Further the elements are also arranged vertically in the table according to a second set of groups for second metric defined as groups of people such as individuals organizations and the greater global society .

When a cell is selected the details of the selected element can be displayed and or generated including insights anecdotes and challenges and tools which may include for example the Drucker management system as well as outside materials as well as a proprietary auditing process practice exercises checklists and individual to name a few or enterprise specific comments and materials to name a few. The one or more cells may also include more specific items of information for each detail such as quotes and listings from the Drucker management system as well as outside quotes and listings and inside quotes and listings and practice tools self auditing tools and interactive auditing to name a few. For example quotes may be used to help understand the meaning of an element and facilitate thinking Anecdotes or stories may be used to further understanding by providing hypothetical and real world examples. Practice tools may reinforce understanding by allowing a user or group to practice applying the concepts of each element. Self auditing tools may help raise awareness of a user s own management effectiveness as well as an organization s. In embodiments practice tools may be customized and used to continue effective practices. When one of the details or more specific items of information for an element is selected additional information regarding the selected detail of the element is provided.

Referring to A B in exemplary embodiments the table can include a navigational map. This navigational map can be used for showing where and or what level the user has navigated to in the table. For example the navigational map can be generated and or modified in response to a user s interaction with the hierarchal visualization structure for example in the graphical user interface of the computerized user system and or the computerized management system. Similar to the visualization structure this navigational map can include elements groups and or hierarchal structure levels. Further as discussed below in more detail the navigational map can generate and or populate information at various hierarchical levels elements and or groupings. Further still the navigational map can as discussed below be used to assist in providing a simplified condensed and or lesser detailed amount of information than the visualization structure. Even Further the navigation map can as discussed below be used to generate and or populate the visualization structure and or adapt with additional information.

Further colors and or shades in a different color or tone can be used to assist in using the navigational map and or visualization structure. For example certain colors or shading in the navigational map when selected can cause other colors and or shading in the visualization structure to appear.

Referring to in exemplary embodiments a flow chart illustrates at least some of the steps that can be used to generate and or update the hierarchal visualization structure. At step the computerized management system can obtain information from a plurality of sources. For example the computerized management system can obtain information via a communication portal from a user via computerized user system communicating through network . Management system can also obtain information from a user via a user input a graphical user interface a combined user input and graphical user interface and or via a communication portal.

Further in exemplary embodiment computerized management system can implement some if not all steps to obtain information such that information can be obtained passively actively and or any combination thereof. By way of example computerized management system can implement some if not all of the steps to open a communication portal and implement some if not all of the steps to activate or allow access to a user input and or a graphical user interface such that information can be passively obtained from a user inputting information to computerized management system via a communication portal a user input a graphical user interface a combined user input and graphical user interface and or any other technique for passively obtaining information.

Further in exemplary embodiments computerized management system can implement using a processor some if not all steps such that information can be actively obtained. For example computerized management system can implement using a processor some if not all steps to access an algorithm program and or process stored in processor readable memory to allow communication via a communication portal such that computerized management system can actively access a private and or a public network to obtain information by for example searching for it. To actively obtain information computerized management system can implement using a processor some if not all steps for a web crawler ant automatic indexer bot web spider web robot web scutter data miner data dredger and or any other technique that can browse a network and or system in a methodical automated manner and or in an orderly fashion to for example parse information thereby obtaining desired information.

In exemplary embodiments at optional step management system can implement using a processor some if not all steps that can transform the obtained information. For example to transfer information computerized management system can include an application programming interface API . This API can be an interface implemented by an algorithm program and or process stored in processor readable memory that can be accessed and processed by a processor enabling management system to implement some if not all steps to interact with various other forms of software and or processes. Further example computerized management system can implement using a processor some if not all the steps in this API stored in processor readable memory to facilitate interaction via communication portal between different software programs and processes.

Further at optional step the management system can transform the obtained information by parsing analyzing and or affiliating various parts of it. For example information can be from a substantially large source that can include various aspects which can relate to various elements and or various hierarchal structure levels. By way of example the information source can be from a library a book a book service a magazine a magazine service a video and or some other substantially large source of information. The system can obtain the information from this large source and can transform it such that only some of the large source can be affiliated with at least an element group hierarchal level etc. As a more specific example the system can actively and or passively obtain a volume of books by Peter F. Drucker parse the information in the volume of books and have a quote from one of the book affiliated with an element group hierarchal level etc.

At step the information can be affiliated with elements in the visualization structure passively actively and or any combination thereof. For example management system can implement some if not all of the steps to match information and or transformed information with elements based on common characteristics. For example information obtained and or transformed can be actively and or passively affiliated with at least an element because for example elements can be assigned affiliation characteristics such as but not limited to key words phrases and or some other affiliation characteristic. By way of example a user can affiliate the obtained information and or transformed information by affiliating it with at least one element based on the affiliation characteristics. By way of another example the system can affiliate the obtained information an or transformed information based on the affiliation characteristics.

At step the information and or transformed information can be affiliated with hierarchal structure levels that are affiliated with elements used in a visualization structure passively actively and or any combination thereof. For example management system can implement some if not all of the steps to match the information and or transformed information with at least one hierarchal structure level based on common characteristics. For example information obtained and or transformed can be actively and or passively affiliated with at least a hierarchal structure level because for example hierarchal structure levels can be assigned affiliation characteristics such as but not limited to key words phrases and or some other affiliation characteristic. By way of example a user can affiliate the obtained information and or transformed information by affiliating it with at least one hierarchal structure level based on the affiliation characteristics. By way of another example the system can affiliate the obtained information an or transformed information based on the affiliation characteristics.

At step in exemplary embodiments management system can implement some if not all of the steps to affiliate information and or transformed information a plurality of elements and or hierarchal structure levels into groups passively actively and or any combination thereof. Further groups may be related to other groups passively actively and or any combination thereof. In exemplary embodiments these affiliations of elements information and or transformed information hierarchal levels and or groups can be arranged in the visualization structure such that they can collectively constitute a common theme. By way of example a visualization structure of a management effective map can put elements and or groups together such that they can collectively constitute the underpinning of management effectiveness tailored as appropriate for self management organizational management and management of society throughout the repeating cycle of vision execution and outcome of management.

For example information obtained and or transformed actively and or passively can be actively and or passively affiliated with at least one group because for example groups can be assigned affiliation characteristics such as but not limited to key words phrases and or some other affiliation characteristic. By way of example a user can affiliate the obtained information and or transformed information by affiliating it with at least one group based on the affiliation characteristics. By way of another example the system can affiliate the obtained information an or transformed information based on the affiliation characteristics.

At step management system can utilize each of the affiliations and or groups to generate the visualization structure and or populate a visualization structure. That is in exemplary embodiments management system can implement some if not all of the steps to generate a visualization structure and or populate a visualization structure s fields. In exemplary embodiments the visualization structure can be organized in a tabular form denoting various elements of a management system.

Further management system can be affiliated with and or include a software platform for collaboration and web publishing combined under a single server. This software platform can include capabilities for developing web sites portals intranets content management systems search engines wikis blogs and other tools for management system . For example management system can be affiliated with and or include Microsoft SharePoint. Utilizing this software platform and or the visualization structure users can be provided with substantially convenient access to and or classification of new and existing management theories and techniques.

It will be understood that the visualization structure can be any tabular form such as but not limited to a periodic table a two dimensional table a multi dimensional table a table with rows columns and or elements any combination thereof and or any tabular form. For ease at times the visualization structure is described as being in the form of a periodic table. This is merely for ease and is in no way meant to be a limitation.

It will be understood that obtaining information at step transforming information at optional step affiliating at steps and and or generating and or populating at step can be further combined separated and or implemented in any order. Management system can implement some if not all of the steps to actively and or passively obtain transform affiliate group and or generate and or populate the hierarchal visualization structure. For example management system can implement some if not all of the steps to obtain and or transform information using a website parse template and a distributed web crawling system. As another example management system can actively obtain a source of information actively convert the obtained information format to run on a different platform and or a user can passively enter some information into an element assign it to a hierarchal level group etc. Of course other variations of actively and passively obtaining transforming affiliating grouping and or generating and or populating the hierarchal visualization structure can be used. For ease only some variations are described. This is merely for ease and is in no way meant to be a limitation.

Referring in exemplary embodiments depicts an exemplary flowchart for inter alia a user s interactions with the systems and methods. By way of example as discussed herein a user can access the visualization structure and information can be provided input and or accessed etc. from for example various elements groupings etc. at various hierarchal levels. As discussed more detailed information can be provided as a user moves through various hierarchal levels. Further a navigational map can be provided to assist a user in determining their location with the visualization structure hierarchal levels and or other location based information to name a few.

By way of another example the visualization structure and navigational map can be related such that the navigational map can be utilized relative to location information within the visualization structure hierarchal levels and or other location based information to name a few. For example a user can access the visualization structure and have the navigational map assist in providing location information in the visualization structure hierarchal levels and or other location based information to name a few. For another example before accessing the visualization structure a user can access the navigational map and this can be used to assist in providing location information in the visualization structure hierarchal levels and or other location based information to name a few.

By way of example at step a user can access the system and methods as described herein and can then be authenticated at step . Authentication of a user can be based on predetermined variables such as but not limited to demographic information user input data historical usage information additional statistical information and or any other reasonable source of information for authenticating a user. Further authentication of a user can produced based on predetermined variables such as but not limited to demographic information user input data historical usage information additional statistical information and or any other reasonable source of information for authenticating a user. etc.

As a more specific example at authentication step a user can be authenticated by inputting information about them such as age career areas of interest etc. a user can be authenticated based on information input and or produced on for example historical usage information as discussed and or this information can be stored and or used to generate a visualization structure and or navigational map at step . Still further either the visualization structure and or the navigational map can provide historical behavioral demographic information related to the user interaction with the system and or any other form of information.

It will be understood that at any of the steps in the method and or combination of steps and or between steps the visualization structure and or navigational map can be generated and or populated at step . For ease only at some steps is this described. This is merely for ease and is in no way meant to be a limitation.

At step a user can select information from either the visualization structure and or navigational map and or search and or browse for information. For example as described above a user can access the visualization structure at various hierarchical levels and select information. For another example the user can select information from the navigational map and access the visualization structure at various hierarchical levels and select information. For yet another example the user can select information from a search and or browse feature and use that to access either the visualization structure and or navigational map.

At step the user can explore the visualization structure and or navigational map and or search and or browse for information at various elements groupings etc. at various hierarchal levels. For example as described above the user can explore through visualization structure moving through various elements groupings etc. at various hierarchal levels. For another example the user can explore through the navigational map and or this exploration can cause the navigational map to generate and or populate information at various hierarchical levels. For yet another example the user can explore through the navigational map and or visualization structure and this exploration can cause the navigational map and or visualization structure to generate and or populate information at various hierarchical levels.

At step the user can input information to the system in the any of the elements groupings hierarchical levels and or any other input location as discussed. Of course at any point the user can continue selecting exploring and or inputting information prior to quitting using the systems and or methods at step . In embodiments the material may also be tailored for an organization or group of users with specific anecdotes and enterprise specific materials.

Referring to the visualization structure and or navigational map can include other shapes as well as include any number of hierarchical levels groups element 

Now that exemplary embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described in detail various modifications and improvements thereon will become readily apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the spirit and scope of the present invention is to be construed broadly and limited only by the appended claims and not by the foregoing specification.

