---

title: Auction with interest rate bidding
abstract: A method and system are provides for an auction with interest rate bidding. The system receives a starting interest rate and a maximum interest rate for an interest-paying (IP) item at a computer. The system publishes the IP item for sale at the starting interest rate, initiates a declining auction and receives bids in the declining auction for the IP item. The system terminates the declining auction based on a predetermined period of time and identifies one or more bids that respectively include an interest rate that is lower than the maximum interest rate. Finally, the system selects a lowest interest rate bid from the one or more bids as a winning bid.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08015103&OS=08015103&RS=08015103
owner: eBay Inc.
number: 08015103
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100222
---
The application is a continuation application which claims the priority benefit of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 733 700 filed Dec. 11 2003 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 783 555 entitled AUCTION WITH INTEREST RATE BIDDING which is hereby incorporated by reference.

Embodiments of the present invention generally relate to technical field of commerce automation and in one exemplary embodiment to auctioning with interest rate bidding.

The Internet and the World Wide Web Web have changed the landscape of information delivery and affected numerous faculties of life including electronic commerce and entertainment. One area that has benefited from this technological development is the ability for individuals to sell products over the Internet.

Auctions conducted across the Internet have become a very popular method of selling goods and services items . In a typical ascending price auction once a seller has submitted a request to sell an item the item becomes available for bidding with the bidding to close typically at some predetermined time e.g. at noon 3 days later . Potential buyers are able to view a description and possibly an image of the item and submit one or more bids for the item. The potential buyer that submitted the highest bid on the item at the end of the auction wins the auction and is typically contractually obligated to purchase the item for the amount bid.

In a typical declining price auction the price e.g. dollar amount for an item is lowered as potential buyers continue to bid on the item for a predetermined amount of time. The price is typically lowered in predetermined increments depending on certain events such as passage of time or number of bids received. However even with declining price auctions in which the dollar amount of the item is incrementally lowered the goal of the seller remains the same i.e. to sell the item for the highest price possible.

A number of technical challenges exist with respect to the automation of declining auctions between parties in a network based commerce facility. For example conventional declining auction technologies are at least limited in types of items that are offered for sale and types of compensation received for those items. Such technological challenges also limit the performance of declining auctions and confine them to only particular types and ways of trading resulting further in lack of creativity and limited goals for trading on part of the participants e.g. sellers and buyers .

A method apparatus and system are provided for declining auction with interest rate bidding. According to one embodiment an interest rate may be set for a transacted financial instrument and information regarding the financial instrument and an interest rate at which the financial instrument is offered are published via a computer network. Offers from respective bidders to transact the financial instrument may be received via the computer network being expressed as offered interest rates at which the bidders are willing to transact the financial instrument. On the termination of a bid receiving process whether at least one of the offers satisfies transaction criteria as defined by a seller of the financial instrument may be determined. If it is determined that at least one of the offers satisfies the transaction criteria then at least one of the offers may be identified as an accepted offer.

The information concerning the financial instrument may be published from a server computer to a client computer via the computer network. The information regarding the financial instrument may be received from the seller of the financial instrument. Furthermore the offers may be received from the respective bidders at the server computer from respective client computers operated by the bidders.

According to one embodiment the bid receiving process may include a declining auction including reducing the published interest rate at which the financial instrument may be offered for sale during the bid receiving process. The reducing of the published interest rate may be performed automatically by the server computer in response to for example bidding activity lack of bidding activity and or receipt of a lower interest rate that is lower than the published interest rate. Furthermore the published interest rate may be reduced to be equal to the lower interest rate.

Similarly the bidding process may also include an ascending auction including increasing the published interest rate at which the financial instrument may be offered for sale during the bid receiving process. The ascension of the published may be performed automatically by the server computer in response to for example bidding activity lack of bidding activity and or receipt of a higher interest rate that is higher than the published interest rate. Furthermore the published interest rate may be increased to be equal to the higher interest rate.

The financial instrument may include one or more interest paying IP financial instruments or one or more interest receiving IR financial instruments. An IP financial instrument may refer to a financial instrument for which the seller pays interest to the buyer of the IP financial instrument while an IR financial instrument may refer to a financial instrument for which the seller receives interest from the buyer of the IR financial instrument.

The interest rate may include a reserve interest rate having a maximum interest rate and or a minimum interest rate. The maximum interest rate may refer to the highest interest rate that the seller is willing to pay to the buyer for an IP financial instrument and the minimum interest rate may refer to the lowest interest rate that the seller is willing to accept from the buyer for an IR financial instrument.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details such as logic implementations opcodes resource partitioning resource sharing and resource duplication implementations types and interrelationships of system components and logic partitioning integration choices may be set forth in order to provide a more thorough understanding of various embodiments of the present invention. It will be evident however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the present invention may be practiced without these specific details based on the disclosure provided. Those of ordinary skill in the art with the included descriptions will be able to implement appropriate functionality without undue experimentation.

Various embodiments of the present invention will be described below. The various embodiments may be performed by hardware components or may be embodied in machine executable instructions which may be used to cause a general purpose or special purpose processor or a machine or logic circuits programmed with the instructions to perform the various embodiments. Alternatively the various embodiments may be performed by a combination of hardware and software.

Various embodiments of the present invention may be provided as a computer program product which may include a machine readable medium having stored thereon instructions which may be used to program a computer or other electronic devices to perform a process according to various embodiments of the present invention. The machine readable medium may include but is not limited to floppy diskette optical disk compact disk read only memory CD ROM magneto optical disk read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM magnetic or optical card flash memory or another type of media machine readable medium suitable for storing electronic instructions. Moreover various embodiments of the present invention may also be downloaded as a computer program product wherein the program may be transferred from a remote computer to a requesting computer by way of data signals embodied in a carrier wave or other propagation medium via a communication link e.g. a modem or network connection .

The computer system may include a processor e.g. a central processing unit CPU a graphics processing unit GPU or both a main memory memory and a static memory which communicate with each other via a bus . The computer system may further include a video display unit e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD or a cathode ray tube CRT . The computer system also includes an alphanumeric input device e.g. a keyboard a cursor control device e.g. a mouse a disk drive unit a signal generation device e.g. a speaker and a network interface device to connect the system with other systems or machines via a network e.g. the Internet .

The processor may include multiple processors including one or more multi threaded processors having multiple threads or logical processors and may be capable of processing multiple instruction sequences concurrently using its multiple threads. The processor may further include one or more microprocessors microcontrollers field programmable gate arrays FPGA application specific integrated circuits ASIC central processing units CPU programmable logic devices PLD and similar devices that access instructions from system storage e.g. main memory decode them and execute those instructions by performing arithmetic and logical operations. The processor may also include one or more internal caches not shown .

The bus may also be known as the host bus or the front side bus and may be used to couple the processors with the system interface. Bus may also be coupled with a control bus an address bus and or a data bus not shown . The control bus the address bus and the data bus may be multidrop bi directional buses e.g. connected to three or more bus agents as opposed to a point to point bus which may be connected only between two bus agents.

The memory may include a dynamic storage device a random access memory RAM or other storage device coupled with the bus for storing information and instructions to be executed by the processor . Memory also may be used for storing temporary variables or other intermediate information during execution of instructions by the processors . The static memory may include a read only memory ROM and or other static storage device coupled with the processor via the bus for storing static information and instructions for the processor .

Memory may include a wide variety of memory devices including read only memory ROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM random access memory RAM non volatile random access memory NVRAM cache memory flash memory and other memory devices. Memory may also include one or more hard disks floppy disks ZIP disks compact disks e.g. CD ROM digital versatile video disks DVD magnetic random access memory MRAM devices and other system readable media that store instructions and or data. The memory may store program modules such as routines programs objects images data structures program data and other program modules that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types that facilitate system use.

The network interface device may include a modem a network interface card or other well known interface devices such as those used for coupling with Ethernet token ring or other types of physical attachment for purposes of providing a communication link to support a local or wide area network for example. Stated differently the system may be coupled with a number of clients and or servers via a conventional network infrastructure such as a company s Intranet and or the Internet for example.

The disk drive unit may include a machine readable medium on which may be stored one or more sets of instructions e.g. software embodying any one or more of the methodologies or functions described herein. The software may also reside completely or at least partially within the main memory and or within the processor during execution thereof by the computer system the main memory and the processor also constituting machine readable media. The software may further be transmitted or received over a network via the network interface device .

While the machine readable medium is illustrated in an exemplary embodiment to be a single medium the term machine readable medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media e.g. a centralized or distributed database and or associated caches and servers that store the one or more sets of instructions. The term machine readable medium shall also be taken to include any medium that is capable of storing encoding or carrying a set of instructions for execution by the machine of the system and that causes the machine to perform any one or more of the methodologies of the present invention. The term machine readable medium shall accordingly be taken to include but not be limited to solid state memories optical and magnetic media and carrier wave signals.

It is appreciated that a lesser or more equipped computer system than the example described above may be desirable for certain implementations. Therefore the configuration of system may vary from implementation to implementation depending upon numerous factors such as price constraints performance requirements technological improvements and or other circumstances.

It should be noted that while the embodiments described herein may be performed under the control of a programmed processor such as the processor in alternative embodiments the embodiments may be fully or partially implemented by any programmable or hardcoded logic such as field programmable gate arrays FPGAs TTL logic or application specific integrated circuits ASICs . Additionally the embodiments of the present invention may be performed by any combination of programmed general purpose computer components and or custom hardware components. Therefore nothing disclosed herein should be construed as limiting the various embodiments of the present invention to a particular embodiment wherein the recited embodiments may be performed by a specific combination of hardware components.

Turning specifically to the network based marketplace an application program interface API server and a web server may be coupled to and provide programmatic and web interfaces respectively to one or more application servers . The application servers may host one or more marketplace applications and payment applications . Furthermore the application servers may be coupled to one or more databases servers to facilitate access to one or more databases .

The marketplace applications may provide a number of marketplace functions and services to users that access the marketplace . The payment applications likewise may provide a number of payment services and functions to users. The payment applications may allow users to quantify for and accumulate value e.g. in a commercial currency such as the U.S. dollar or a proprietary currency such as points in accounts and then to redeem the accumulated value for products e.g. goods or services that are made available via the marketplace applications . While the marketplace and payment applications and as illustrated both form part of the network based marketplace it will be appreciated that in alternative embodiments of the present invention the payment applications may form part of a payment service that is separate and distinct from the marketplace .

Further while the architecture as illustrated may employ a client server architecture embodiments of the present invention are not limited to this architecture and may equally well find application in a distributed or peer to peer architectures. The various marketplace and payment applications and may also be implemented as standalone software programs which do not necessarily have networking capabilities.

The web client it will be appreciated may access the various marketplace and payment applications and via the web interface supported by the web server . Similarly the programmatic client may access the various services and functions provided by the marketplace and payment applications and via the programmatic interface provided by the API server . The programmatic client may for example be a seller application e.g. the TurboLister application developed by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. to enable sellers to author and manage listings on the marketplace in an off line manner and to perform batch mode communications between the programmatic client and the network based marketplace .

One or more of the auction applications may include one or more declining auction applications and or one or more ascending auction applications. A declining auction application may provide a dynamic processing mechanism for the trading of interest paying financial instruments e.g. bonds notes and certificate of deposits CD for which a buyer receives interest from the seller. For interest paying financial instruments the price in currency may remain constant and the compensation for buying a particular financial instrument may include interest rate. For example a financial institution or an individual seller may want to sell a 1000 bond to a buyer for an interest rate that is lower than the maximum interest rate that the seller is willing to pay to the buyer. Potential buyers may bid on the bond in terms of interest rates that they are willing to accept. The seller may then sell the bond to the buyer who bids the lowest interest rate. An ascending auction application may provide a dynamic processing mechanism for trading of interest receiving financial instruments e.g. mortgage loans personal loans and credit cards for which a buyer pays interest to the seller.

One or more fixed price applications may support fixed price listing formats e.g. the traditional classified advertisement type listing or a catalogue listing and buyout type listings. Specifically buyout type listings e.g. including the Buy It Now BIN technology developed by eBay Inc. of San Jose Calif. may be offered in conjunction with an auction format or other dynamic pricing format listing and allow a buyer to purchase goods or services which are also being offered for sale via an auction for a fixed price that is typically higher than the starting price of the auction.

Similarly one or more fixed interest applications may support providing fixed interest listing formats and buy out listings. Using again the BIN technology as an example a buyer may purchase a financial instrument which may also be offered for sale via an auction at a fixed interest rate. The fixed interest rate may be higher or lower than the starting interest rate offered at the auction depending on the nature of the financial instrument. For example a CD may be sold for a lower fixed interest rate than the starting interest rate offered at the auction while a credit card may be sold at a higher fixed interest rate than the starting interest rate offered at the auction.

One or more publishing applications may be used to publish the information relating to auctions such as the declining price auction. For example in an embodiment where the financial instruments are offered for sale over the Internet the publishing applications may format information about the financial instruments in a web page and provide that web page over the Internet to potential buyers. The publishing applications may also update the current offer price e.g. 100 or interest rate e.g. 10 as necessary when the current offer price or interest rate is changed using the auction applications .

The store applications may allow sellers to group their listings within a virtual store e.g. a virtual bank which may be branded and otherwise personalized by and for the sellers. Such a virtual store may also offer promotions incentives and features that are specific and personalized to a relevant seller.

One or more reputation applications may allow parties that transact utilizing the network based marketplace to establish build and maintain reputations which may be made available and published to potential trading partners. Consider that where for example the network based marketplace may support a person to person trading users may have no history or other reference information whereby the trustworthiness and credibility of potential trading partners may be assessed. The reputation applications may allow a user for example through feedback provided by other transaction partners to establish a reputation within the network based marketplace over time. Other potential trading partners may then reference such a reputation for the purposes of assessing credibility and trustworthiness.

The personalization applications may allow users of the marketplace to personalize various aspects of their interactions with the marketplace . For example a user may utilizing an appropriate personalization application may create a personalized reference page at which information regarding transactions to which the user is or has been a party may be viewed. Further the personalization applications may enable a user to personalize listings and other aspects of their interactions with the marketplace and other parties.

The network based marketplace may support a number of marketplaces that are customized for example for specific geographic regions. For example a version of the marketplace may be customized for the United Kingdom whereas another version of the marketplace may be customized for the United States of America. Each of these versions may operate as an independent marketplace or may be customized or internationalized presentations of a common underlying marketplace.

The navigation of the network based marketplace may be facilitated by one or more navigation applications . For example a search application may enable key word searches of listings published via the marketplace . A browse application may allow users to browse various categories catalogues or inventory data structures according to which listings may be classified within the network based marketplace . Various other navigation applications may be provided to supplement the search and browsing applications.

In order to make listings available via the network based marketplace as visually informing and attractive as possible the marketplace applications may include according to one embodiment one or more imaging applications utilizing which users may upload images for inclusion within listings. The imaging applications may also operate to incorporate images within viewed listings. The imaging applications may also support one or more promotional features such as image galleries that are presented to potential buyers. For example sellers may pay an additional fee to have an image included within a gallery of images for promoted items.

One or more listing creation applications may allow sellers conveniently to author listings pertaining to goods or services that they wish to transact via the network based marketplace and listing management applications may allow sellers to manage such listings. Specifically where a particular seller has authored and or published a large number of listings the management of such listings may present a challenge. The listing management applications provide a number of features e.g. auto relisting inventory level monitors etc. to assist the seller in managing such listings. One or more post listing management applications may also assist sellers with a number of activities that typically occur post listing. For example upon completion of an auction facilitated by one or more auction applications a seller may wish to leave feedback regarding a particular buyer. To this end a post listing management application may provide an interface to one or more reputation applications so as to allow the seller conveniently to provide feedback regarding multiple buyers to the reputation applications . Goods and services may also include financial instruments such as CDs notes credit cards bank accounts mortgages bonds etc.

The dispute resolution applications provide mechanisms whereby disputes arising between transacting parties may be resolved. For example the dispute resolution applications may provide guided procedures whereby the parties are guided through a number of procedures in an attempt to settle a dispute. In the event that the dispute cannot be settled via the guided procedures according to one embodiment the dispute may be escalated to a third party mediator or arbitrator.

A number of fraud prevention applications may implement various fraud detection and prevention mechanisms to reduce the occurrence of fraud within the network based marketplace .

The messaging applications may be responsible for the generation and delivery of messages to users of the network based marketplace . Such messages for example may advise users regarding the status of listings at the network based marketplace e.g. providing outbid notices to bidders during an auction process or to provide promotional and merchandising information to users .

The merchandising applications may support various merchandising functions that are made available to sellers to enable sellers to increase sales via the network based marketplace . The merchandising applications may also operate the various merchandising features that may be invoked by sellers and may monitor and track the success of merchandising strategies employed by sellers.

The network based marketplace itself or one or more parties that transact via the network based marketplace may operate loyalty programs that are supported by one or more loyalty promotions applications . For example a buyer may earn loyalty or promotions points for each transaction established and or concluded with a particular seller and may be offered a reward for which accumulated loyalty points can be redeemed.

The tables may also include an items table in which may be maintained item records for the items that are available to be or have been transacted via the network based marketplace . Each item record within the items table may furthermore be linked to one or more user records within the user table so as to associate a seller and one or more actual or potential buyers with each item record.

A transaction table may contain a record for each transaction e.g. a purchase transaction pertaining to items for which records may exist within the items table . An order table may be populated with order records each order record may be associated with an order. Each order in turn may be with respect to one or more transactions for which records may exist within the transactions table .

The bid records maintained within a bids table may each relate to a bid received at the network based marketplace in connection with an auction format listing supported by an auction application . An interest rate table may contain information relating to interest rates at they relate to the items e.g. financial instruments on sale. For example the interest rate table may include the start offer interest rate increments at which the interest rate may be declined and the reserve interest rate e.g. maximum and minimum interest rates corresponding to each of the items. The interest rate table may include overlapping information from other tables such as the bids table items table and history table . A history table may maintain a history of transactions to which a user has been a party.

One or more attributes tables may record attribute information pertaining to items for which records may exist within the items table . A feedback table may be utilized by one or more reputation applications to construct and maintain reputation information concerning users. Considering only a single example of such an attribute the attributes tables may indicate a currency or interest rate attribute associated with a particular item identifying the currency or interest rate for the relevant item as specified by a seller. The tables illustrated here and the like may be included in the databases and or may be directly or indirectly coupled with each other. Furthermore depending on various embodiments of the present invention not all the tables may be needed and conversely additional tables not illustrated here may be added as necessitated.

The seller may publish for example a 1000 bond in a declining auction with an initial offer interest rate initial interest rate of for example 10 . The price of the bond e.g. 1000 however may remain constant regardless of the initial interest rate and subsequent biddings of the interest rate by the buyer and the final interest rate at which the bond may be sold. The initial interest rate may be set by the seller for the users to start bidding on the item. The initial interest rate may be set automatically depending on various factors such as item types history of the time time allowed for the declining auction market rates and reserve interest rate.

The reserve interest rate for the item may refer to the maximum interest rate and or minimum interest rate for the item as set by the seller depending on the type of item. For example the reserve interest rate for a bond may be the maximum interest rate e.g. 6 that the seller is willing to pay on the other hand the reserve interest rate for a mortgage loan may be the minimum interest rate e.g. 5 that the seller is willing to accept. Stated differently for interest paying items e.g. items on which the seller is expected to pay interest e.g. bonds CDs savings and money market accounts the seller may set a maximum interest rate that the seller is willing to pay and above which the seller may not sell the item. Furthermore for interest paying items a declining auction may be used.

For interest receiving items e.g. items on which the buyer is expected to pay interest e.g. home mortgages automobile loans personal loans student loans and credit cards the seller may set a minimum interest rate that the seller is willing to accept and under which the seller may not sell the item. The determination of the reserve interest rate of items may also depend on other factors such as item types history of the time time allowed for the declining auction market rates and initial offer interest rate initial interest rate . In contrast with the interest paying items for interest receiving items an ascending auction may be used.

The buyers may continue to bid on the items until a bid is accepted or a triggering event such as end of the predetermined time period for the auction occurs. The initial interest rate may be reduced by the seller or automatically reduced responsive to bid values received from potential buyers. The lowering of the initial interest rate however may be performed in predetermined increments or according to the bids received. For example the initial interest rate of 10 for the bond may be reduced by 1 after every 2 hours of declining auction until it reaches 0.01 . The initial interest rate may be reduced according to the bids received for example a bid of 9.5 may reduce the initial interest rate to 9.5 and later a bid of 8.75 may reduce the initial interest rate to 8.75 . The interest rate initial or reserve interest rate may not reach 0 and the minimum increment for reducing or bidding the interest rate may be 0.01 . In an ascending auction the seller may accept the bid with the highest interest rate that is also greater than the minimum interest rate. In a declining auction the seller may accept the bid with the lowest interest rate that is also lower than the maximum interest rate.

The seller may not be limited to a financial institution and may include individuals and other parties and the buyer may not be limited to an individual and may include financial institutions and other parties. Also it is anticipated the seller and buyer may include any combination of individuals parties and financial institutions just as the items for sale may include any variety and combination of financial instruments.

A predetermined time period may be set for auctioning of the item. The predetermined time period may be set at the beginning of the auction or may be set during the auction if for example the item is not very popular with the users. The time period may not be set and the item may be on the auction until it is sold. In an embodiment where the time period is set for the auction of the item at decision block the remaining time in the auction is determined. If no time is left the auction may end at processing block . However if there is some time left the auction may continue with the lowering of the initial interest rate according to predetermined increments or according to the received bids at processing block .

At decision block according to one embodiment the received bids are evaluated for satisfying the initial interest rate and reserve interest rate criteria. If any of the bids meet the criteria of initial interest rate and reserve interest rate as set forth by for example the seller the best of those bids may be accepted at processing block . For example in case of an interest paying item e.g. bond the bid with the lowest interest rate e.g. closest to zero may be accepted using a declining auction and in case of an interest receiving item e.g. home mortgage loan the bid with the highest interest rate may be accepted using an ascending auction. In the case of multiple items for sale multiple bids may be received corresponding to each of the multiple items. Furthermore if only one bid satisfies the criteria of the initial interest rate and the reserve interest rate that one bid may be accepted.

If none of the bids received satisfy the criteria of the initial interest rate and the reserve interest rate whether more bids are received may be determined at decision block . If the more bids are received the auction using interest rate bidding may end at processing block .

The seller may publish the IP item at the initial interest rate for the buyers to bid at processing block . The initial interest rate for the IP item may be published but the maximum rate may remain confidential. For example the seller may publish a 1000 bond for sale at the initial interest rate of 10 to start bidding but may keep confidential the maximum rate of 6 that the seller is willing to pay. At the processing block according to one embodiment the buyers may begin to bid on the IP item. Using the published initial interest rate of 10 the buyers may start bidding at 10 and may bid as low as 0.01 in minimum increments of 0.01 . For example one or more buyers may bid 8.25 6.23 3.90 and 2.76 for the bond during which the price of the bond e.g. 1000 may not change. One buyer may place one or more bids.

A predetermined time period may be assigned to the declining auction which means the declining auction may automatically expire after a certain time period has ended and no acceptable bid has yet been received for the IP item. According to another embodiment no predetermined time period may be assigned to the declining auction and the auction may remain open until the item is sold or other triggering event has occurred such as change in financial markets political situation or laws concerning the IP item or declining auction and the like. At decision block time left of the predetermined time period is determined. If the time period has expired the declining auction may expire at processing block . If the time period has not yet expired the declining auction may continue with the lowering of the initial interest rate at processing block .

The initial interest rate for the IP item may be lowered in various increments based on various factors such as time or bids received. For example the initial interest rate of 10 for the bond may be reduced by an increment of 0.1 after every hour reducing the rate of 10 to 9.70 after three hours. On the other hand the initial interest rate may be reduced according to the bids received. For example the initial interest rate of 10 may be reduced from the highest to the lowest bid received such as from 10 to 8.25 to 6.23 to 3.90 and then to 2.76 . If a lower bid e.g. 3.90 is received before a higher bid e.g. 6.23 the initial interest rate may remain at 3.90 and may not be increased to 6.23 .

The bids received may then be compared to the initial interest rate to determine whether any of the bids qualify for further consideration at decision block . If the bid rate e.g. 12.5 is higher than the initial interest rate e.g. 10 the bid for the IP item e.g. bond may be rejected at processing block . Bids with interest rates lower than the initial interest rate may then be compared with the maximum rate to determine whether any of those bids qualify for further consideration at decision block . If the bid rate e.g. 8.25 and 6.23 is higher than the maximum rate e.g. 6 the bid for the IP item e.g. bond may be rejected at processing block and the declining auction continues with receiving bids at processing block .

Before accepting any of the bids e.g. 3.90 and 2.76 having lower interest rate than the maximum rate e.g. 6 for the IP item e.g. bond whether more bids have been received is determined at decision block . If additional bids have been received the process of evaluating and analyzing those and other bids may continue at decision block . If no more bids received the lowest bid e.g. 2.76 may be accepted at processing block . With the acceptance of the lowest or best bid the declining auction with interest rate bidding may end at processing block .

Accepting the lowest bid may mean the seller may pay the accepted bid interest rate to the buyer of the IP item. Continuing with the bond example the seller may pay 2.76 to the buyer for the 1000 bond that the buyer purchased with the accepted bid.

The seller may publish the IR item at the initial interest rate for the buyers to bid at processing block . The initial interest rate for the IR item may be published but the minimum rate may remain confidential. For example the seller may publish a credit card for sale at the initial interest rate of 7 to start bidding but may keep confidential the minimum rate of 10 that the seller is willing to accept. At the processing block the buyers may begin to bid on the IR item. Using the published initial interest rate of 7 the buyers may start bidding at 7 and may bid in minimum increments of 0.01 . For example one or more buyers may bid 18.25 16.23 8.90 and 7.76 for the credit card. Also one buyer may place one or more bids.

A predetermined time period may be assigned to the ascending auction which means the ascending auction may automatically expire after a certain time period has ended and no acceptable bid has yet been received for the IR item. According to another embodiment no predetermined time period may be assigned to the declining auction and the auction may remain open until the item is sold or other triggering event has occurred such as change in financial markets political situation or laws concerning the IR item or ascending auctions and the like. At decision block time left of the predetermined time period is determined. If the time period has expired the ascending auction may expire at processing block . If the time period has not yet expired the ascending auction may continue.

The seller according to one embodiment may have the option of lowering the minimum rate in various increments depending on the bids received to accommodate more bids or according to another embodiment may choose not to lower the minimum rate and reject all bids that are for interest rate lower than the minimum rate. The bids received with interest rates lower than the initial interest rate may then be compared with the minimum rate to determine whether any of those bids qualify for further consideration at decision block . If the bid interest rate e.g. 8.90 and 7.76 is lower than the minimum rate e.g. 10 and even though it is higher than the initial rate e.g. 7 such bid for the IR item e.g. credit card may be rejected at processing block and the ascending auction continues with the receiving of bids at processing block .

Before accepting any of the bids e.g. 18.25 and 16.23 having higher interest rate than the minimum rate e.g. 10 for the IR item e.g. credit cards whether more bids have been received is determined at decision block . If additional bids have been received the process of evaluating and analyzing those and other bids may continue at decision block . If no more bids are received the highest bid e.g. 18.25 may be accepted at processing block . With the acceptance of the highest or best bid the ascending auction with interest rate bidding may end at processing block .

Accepting the highest bid may mean that the seller has received and accepted a bid interest rate from a buyer of the IR item that satisfies the seller s criteria for selling the IR item. Continuing with the credit card example the buyer may pay 18.25 to the seller for for example carrying a balance on the credit card that the buyer purchased with the accepted bid.

According to one embodiment an auction including an ascending auction or a declining auction may be performed using one or more auction applications as illustrated and described with reference to . The one or more auction applications may include one or more ascending an or declining auction applications to perform various embodiments of the auction. The one or more ascending and or declining auction applications may further include one or more ascending and or declining auction interest rate applications to perform various embodiments of the ascending and declining auctions including auctions using interest rate biddings. The various auction applications may be used to facilitate a processor such as the processor of to perform the embodiments of the present application.

The auction applications may directly or indirectly interface or be coupled with one or more databases such as the databases of . The one or more databases may include an interest rate table and a history table . The interest rate table may be used to store information relating to interest rates of a particular item. The information may include various interest rates associated with a number of items such as initial offer interest rate reserve interest rate including maximum interest rate and or minimum interest rate and interest rates bid by various buyers or a particular item and the like. Various items may include various financial instruments including interest receiving IR items and interest paying IP items. IR items may refer to those financial instruments on which the seller is expected to receive interest from the buyer upon purchase of an IR item. IP items may refer to those financial instruments on which the seller is expected to pay interest to the buyer upon purchase of an IP item.

The history table may include historical information about various items as described above that have been sold or offered for sale using the declining auction with interest rate bidding. Furthermore the history table may contain information regarding various registered users of the declining auction. The registered risers may or may not have participated in a declining auction and or purchased an item. For example a declining auction interest rate application may query the interest rate table and the history table to determine whether items similar to the one currently on sale have been sold and the interest rate at which the they were sold using the declining auction with interest rate bidding. Such information may be used by the declining auction interest rate application to for example either automatically list the initial interest rate and or reserve interest rate for the item or allow the seller to extract the collected information to determine the initial interest rate and or reserve interest rate.

The publishing application may perform embodiments including processes relating to publishing the information with regard to the declining auction. For example in an embodiment where an item may be offered for sale over the Internet the publishing application may format information about the item on a web page and have that web page available over the Internet to potential buyers. Furthermore the publishing application may also update the current initial interest rate as the current initial interest rate may change by the declining auction applications .

For simplicity a single auction is used and illustrated as an example. However embodiments of the present invention provide for a plurality of auctions including ascending auctions and declining auctions to take place sequentially and or simultaneously. A plurality of auctions may be conducted on the same or different server computers and even on different processors within the same server computer. Furthermore a single auction or a plurality of auctions may be performed in the same or different processors and threads etc. Moreover any combination of software hardware firmware etc. may be used to perform various embodiments of the present invention. Embodiments of the present invention may also provide for programming the functionality required for performing the various embodiments using any programming technology paradigm and or language that exist today or may be developed in the future including but not limited to parallel programming object oriented technology distributed processing multi processing Java C C and assembly language and the like.

It should be appreciated that reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Therefore it is emphasized and should be appreciated that two or more references to an embodiment or one embodiment or an alternative embodiment in various portions of this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined as suitable in one or more embodiments of the invention.

Similarly it should be appreciated that in the foregoing description of exemplary embodiments of the invention various features of the invention are sometimes grouped together in a single embodiment figure or description thereof for the purpose of streamlining the disclosure aiding in the understanding of one or more of the various inventive aspects. This method of disclosure however is not to be interpreted as reflecting an intention that the claimed invention requires more features than are expressly recited in each claim. Rather as the following claims reflect inventive aspects lie in less than all features of a single foregoing disclosed embodiment. Thus the claims following the detailed description are hereby expressly incorporated into this detailed description with each claim standing on its own as a separate embodiment of this invention.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not restrictive and that the embodiments of the present invention are not to be limited to specific constructions and arrangements shown and described since various other modifications may occur to those ordinarily skilled in the art upon studying this disclosure.

