---

title: Flux compression generator
abstract: A flux compression generator (FCG) is provided for producing an electromagnetic pulse (EMP). The FCG includes an environmental case, a reactive load, a dielectric core, a superconducting stator, an electric energy source, a load switch, and a transition device. The reactive load transmits the EMP in response to an electric current pulse. The dielectric core has proximal and distal ends within the case, with the stator disposed coaxially around the core that provides structural support. The case contains the electrical energy source, the stator, the core and the transition device. The energy source connects to the stator at the proximal end and powers the transition device. The load switch connects the reactive load to the stator at the distal end. The energy source initially provides an electric current to the stator. The device upon activation heats at least a portion of the stator to reversibly transition the portion from a superconducting state to a non-superconducting state. The stator transfers the electric current as the pulse to the reactive load upon the portion's transition to the non-superconducting state. The stator can be a superconducting helical coil that wraps around the core connected to a superconducting conductor disposed coaxially within the core. Alternatively, the stator can be a stack of superconducting rings disposed coaxially along the core. The superconducting coil and rings can preferably be composed of a high temperature superconductive material on a metal substrate.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08723390&OS=08723390&RS=08723390
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08723390
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101110
---
The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to flux compression generators. In particular the invention incorporates high temperature superconductive materials to generate an electromagnetic pulse.

Electronic equipment such as found in a hostile weapon system can potentially be disabled by a flux compression generator FCG by means of an electromagnetic pulse EMP . Such an FCG equipped device has military tactical and strategic value depending on how the FCG is incorporated in a design and the size and numbers of FCGs incorporated in the device. This effect can interrupt or damage sensitive electronics susceptible to strong electromagnetic fields such as seeker or targeting systems on an approaching weapon. Dawn of the E Bomb by M. Abrams November 2003 at http www.ece.unm.edu faculty edl EdlPDF SpectrumArticle.pdf provides a general introduction to such uses.

Conventional FCG devices include the explosive flux compression generator E FCG . Further information on the E FCG is available in Magnetic Flux Compression Generators A Tutorial and Survey by C. M. Fowler and L. L. Altgilbers 3 no. 3 2003 pp. 305 357 available at http www.emph.com.ua 11 pdf fowler.pdf. A briefer summary can be obtained from How E Bombs Work by T. Harris at http science.howstuffworks.com e bomb.htm printable with a link to an accompanying video demonstration at http videos.howstuffworks.com discovery 7102 electromagnetic pulse bomb video.htm.

Conventional techniques for generating a high power EMP fall into one of two categories nuclear generated EMP produced via the Compton effect and explosive generated EMP usually in the form of a magnetic flux compression generator. Nuclear EMP devices are large devices more strategic than tactical. Low altitude nuclear EMP generation can cause significant environmental damages from radiation pressure wave generation or materials with high kinetic and thermal energy content. High altitude EMP HEMP generation produces damage to ground based equipment through the generation of an electrical pulse but can also cause significant damage to orbiting satellite systems through radiation and high energy detritus.

An E FCG can be implemented as an EMP generator to cause damage to air and ground based electronic systems. The primary damage occurs through the delivery of a focused electrical pulse or energy with ancillary damage resulting from a high pressure wave and high energy detritus from the casing. The pressure wave and high energy detritus associated with a conventional E FCG can result in unintended and unavoidable collateral damage. Conventional E FCGs can be difficult to control during initiation due to timing between the energizing system the explosive initiator and the switching components and can therefore be extremely inefficient. To be effective they must generally be large because of the basic design of these devices. Their large size also affects the logistics of transportation and delivery.

Conventional explosively driven flux compression generators yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular conventional such generators employ chemical explosives that present safety hazards and preclude non destructive testing. Various exemplary embodiments provide solutions to these limitations.

Various exemplary embodiments provide a flux compression generator FCG for producing an electromagnetic pulse EMP . The FCG includes an environmental case a reactive load a dielectric core with a nominally conductive spline a superconducting stator an electric energy source a load switch and a transition device.

In various exemplary embodiments the reactive load transmits the EMP in response to an electric current pulse. The dielectric core has proximal and distal ends within the case with the stator disposed coaxially around the conductive outer layer of the core that provides structural support. The case contains the electrical energy source the stator the core and the transition device. The conductive spline provides a shorting path for the stator current as the superconductive material transitions to a non superconducting state.

In various exemplary embodiments the energy source connects to the stator at the proximal end and powers the transition device used to drive the superconductive material out of the super conducting state. The load switch connects the reactive load to the stator at the distal end. The energy source initially provides an electric current to the stator. The transition device upon activation heats at least a portion of the stator to reversibly transition the portion from a superconducting state to a non superconducting state. The conductive spline creates an electrically short path for the current maintaining conservation of flux and therefore flux compression. The stator transfers the increasing electric current as a pulse to the reactive load in response to transition of the portion to the non superconducting state and closing the load switch.

In various exemplary embodiments the stator can be a superconducting helical coil that wraps around the core connected to a superconducting conductor disposed coaxially within the core. In alternative exemplary embodiments the stator can be a stack of superconducting rings disposed coaxially along the core.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

In various exemplary embodiments the exemplary FCG designs can operate as a primary component of to generate a tactical non nuclear non explosive EMP. An EMP device with the above functional description comprises three basic components an FCG an impedance balancing network also referred to as a pulse forming network and an output load that can be an antenna or another FCG. Because of the design characteristics of the proposed FCG the output produces a high voltage pulse that can be tunable both for power output and frequency content. These qualities render the device suitable for a wide variety of applications where highly variable pulse voltage outputs are required.

The disclosure describes an exemplary implementation of an FCG. The impedance balancing network and antenna load are not to be described herein as the theory and practice of these devices are well known to those knowledgeable in the art. The proposed concept does not significantly affect the design theory regarding electrical load topology.

The envisioned purpose of various exemplary embodiments is to provide a primary component of a tactical non nuclear non explosive electromagnetic pulse EMP generator device the purposed function of which is the upset or damage of sensitive electronics susceptible to strong electromagnetic fields in a variety of environments including air space land and underwater. An EMP is characterized as a broad band signal with a frequency power distribution typically ranging from a few hundred kilohertz kHz to a few gigahertz GHz . The single effect of an FCG of the proposed design is the generation of a high voltage pulse output that can be incorporated in an EMP generator for the purpose of upsetting or destroying sensitive electronics within a tactical area.

Elementary generator theory is presented by an introduction to explosive magnetic FCGs. The elementary components of an idealized FCG can be represented as shown in as a linear circuit composed of three inductor elements in series with a resistor. In particular shows a schematic view of the linear circuit. A transient variable inductor L t carries current I in a direction towards electrical lead inductance Lshown by winding a resistor R shown by resistance and a load inductance Las winding . The circuit is bound at opposite ends by grounds .

The inductance of a typical helical winding is proportional to the product of the square of the number of turns and the loop area and is inversely proportional to the length over the number of turns. The general formula in Le Syst me International d unit s meter kilogram second or SI units can be shown in eqns. 1 and 2 as shown 

The maximum current and maximum drive voltage into the load inductance Lwhen the stator winding is discharged at the burnout time can be determined using eqns. 3 4 and 5 as follows 

The following quantities can be assumed for explanatory and exemplary purposes for an ideal system where is ohms H is henrys A is amperes V is volts J is joules initial current I 0.1 A resistance R 10 m lead inductance L 2 nH and load inductance L 10 nH. For an inductor axial length of 2.54 cm 1 in inductor radius R 2.54 cm 1 in number of winding turns N 100 winding burnout time 100 nanoseconds then initial winding inductance L 528.054 H burnout current I 4400 A drive voltage V 23.0 10V or 23.0 MV E 96.8 10J or 96.8 mJ .

Although the model is idealized and therefore optimal in calculated output yields the maximum inducted voltage to the load can be very high in large part to the fast transition time even with a relatively small current. The efficiency of transferring the high voltage energy depends on the impedance match between the FCG and the load. The load being reactive in nature and therefore needs to be carefully designed to match the impedance of the FCG.

Various exemplary embodiments provide implementation of a magnetic flux compression generator FCG using a high temperature superconductive material HTSCM . The device employs advances made in HTSCMs which typically are based on a family of cuprates but may include other novel materials without departing from the scope of the invention. Two exemplary HTSCMs include mercury thallium barium calcium copper oxide or tin lead indium barium thorium copper oxide. The components themselves are formed on a base material such as nickel because of the unique granular alignment characteristics of the nickel.

The implementation of various exemplary embodiments include composition of an environmentally sealed casing a conductive stator in the form of a helical winding or a ring stack made of an appropriate HTSCM surrounding a non conductive core an energizing system and a transition mechanism for establishing the temperature environment for the HTSCM between superconducting and non superconducting states.

In large platforms electrically initiated explosive devices can be very sensitive to radio emissions or fire. Therefore storage and handling become major issues especially on ships or aircraft. An E FCG has seven major components an energizing system comprising a capacitor bank an expanding armature having a switch or fuse that conducts electric current a solenoid and an explosive case as shown in . An initial energy in the form of a current pulse is produced by the energizing system e.g. the bank to the stator coil e.g. the solenoid . After a short period of time the energizing system is disconnected via a switch or fuse and the explosive case of the armature is detonated as shown in view of .

The detonation leads to a progressive expansion of the armature e.g. the truncated cylinder into the truncated solenoid as a stator coil with the effect of shorting the windings in the solenoid . This progressive shorting compresses the magnetic flux field until flux can no longer be sustained within the system as shown in view of and the energy is launched into a following load such as the capacitor . The load forms a pulse forming network launching antenna energy as an electromagnetic wave. The explosive case presents a safety hazard and operational testing of the conventional FCG requires physical destruction of the solenoid and its supporting cylinder thereby precluding further operation of unit.

A conductive shorting spline runs collinearly along the length of the core flanked by a superconductive switch and the load switch . The spline extends parallel to an HTSCM conductor that is disposed inside and coaxial to the core . End terminals connect the HTSCM coil and the HTSCM conductor to form a HTSCM circuit in clockwise direction. The superconductive switch connects the energy source to the coil and includes the split base along with a transition device . The conductor connects the coil to the load switch . A reactive load connects the load switch to the energy source via a third conductor as well as to ground . The load represents a capacitor inductor resistor circuit and is disposed outside the case .

The primary loader coil has technical precedence in the technical literature albeit sans HTSCM. See C. M. Fowler R. S. Caird and W. B. Garn in An Introduction to Explosive Magnetic Flux Compression Generators LA 5890 MS Los Alamos Scientific Laboratory March 1975 available at http www.ecoversity.org archives Magnetic Flux Compression Generators.pdf especially at pp. 11 14 II.C.1 II.C.I.b 1 and 2 .

Transitioning from high temperature superconducting to non superconducting state generally involves rises of only tens of degrees Celsius. At that stage electrical conduction transitions from superconductivity in the HTSCM layer to the metallic conductivity in the nickel substrate . Depending on the selected materials with their mechanical characteristics and the level of superconductivity achieved the coil can have very close spacing leading to higher inductance designs.

Exemplary parameters for these components would provide for matched impedances through the pulse forming network between the FCG and the load circuit. This task is greatly simplified by the mechanism used by the HTSCM FCG and the ideal system equations provided earlier can be applied.

Similarly the low inductance FCG includes a stator coil and a loader coil having a higher relative inductance to provide for efficient flux energy transfer. Also the low impedance FCG includes a stator ring stack rather than a helical coil. Though non traditional this stator inductance can be calculated using the previous equations in the same way as the helical stator due to the unique properties of the HTSC materials.

The environmentally sealed case ensures a stable controlled environment for the device components to enable a highly controlled and predictive state reaction. The case contains the HTSCM coil or HTSCM ring stack along with any component necessary to achieve a controlled transition of the HTSCM between non superconducting states and superconducting states.

An HTSCM winding or HTSCM ring stack acts as an electromagnetic stator for the FCG and . In a superconducting state the HTSCM windings or rings can be energized with a current at near zero voltage differences between the windings. This enables the windings to be disposed arbitrarily close together with no resulting electric field breakdown while in the superconducting state. This also enables maximum energy to be stored in the resulting direct current magnetic field for the case of the helical winding implementation. An HTSCM return path e.g. conductor and or connection to ground may be employed to complete the circuit.

The energizing system using the energy source coupled to the control device supplies the HTSCM stator and with a source current for ultimate generation of an EMP. The physical characteristics and performance parameters of energy source depend on the design of the stator and . In addition performance can depend on relative inductance between the energy source and a comparatively low inductance HTSCM stator as the coil with the conductor or else the ring stack .

The loader coil collinear to the dielectric core can be used to induce an electric current onto the coil much as a transformer induces energy between collinear windings. This loader coil may also be composed of an HTSCM overlaid on a metal substrate and can be contained within the sealed case . The loader coil is deactivated as an open circuit to prevent transfer of flux energy from the stator coil to the loader coil during transition of the stator from a superconducting state to a non superconducting state. The high inductance FCG has high coil inductance relative to the energy source . The source current can be provided by the energy source through direct injection onto the stator as a high inductance coil with the conductor . Fowler et al. 1975 provides a generalized loader coil topology for conventional E FCG designs.

The transition devices controllably alter the state of the FCG and behave effectively as switches by changing the HTSCM from superconducting state to non superconducting state. The load switch opens or closes a path to the reactive load . Other transition devices would be used to affect the stator and ensure portions are either in a superconducting state or a non superconducting state. Through a controlled action of the transition devices a high voltage pulse can be generated by the FCG . A variety of mechanisms influence the superconducting state of the stator that includes thermal magnetic or ablative processes and the transition devices can be designed to provide the appropriate effect.

The three exemplary implementations of the FCG using HTSCM are described in association with . The FCG represents a high inductance implementation whereas the FCGs and are low inductance implementations. These possible implementations are not exhaustive but provide the minimum design criteria for further extrapolation.

There are eleven primary components necessary for the high inductance implementation as the FCG . The environmental enclosure provides for a closed boundary space where the environmental factors such as temperature pressure and gas content can be established and maintained. The energy source provides electrical power to all electrical and electronic mechanisms to establish the state of the high inductance FCG . The energy source injects current into the helical winding of the coil . The controller device monitors the condition or state of the FCG during operation and controls all processes that affect the FCG s state.

These processes include establishing the proper physical environment energizing and de energizing the system through the series of switches such as the superconductive switch and the load switch as well as the other state transition devices such as the laser diode depicted. The superconductive switch may be incorporated to load the helical coil for the high inductance version of the FCG . This is not a necessary component in the low inductance implementation for the FCG .

The superconductive switch takes advantage of the properties of the HTSCM in relation to the substrate base metal of the core that can preferably be a nickel alloy. The HTSCM layer forms a continuous path for the helical windings of the coil . The spline represents a base metal for electrical conductivity to provide an angular dielectric discontinuity that extends axially along the core thereby providing a high impedance axial path when the FCG s internal environment enables superconductivity of the HTSCM.

The split base in the nickel layer of the HTSCM coil provides an electrical discontinuity to the coil . This discontinuity occurs in response to the HTSCM layer transitioning to the non superconducting state. While the HTSCM stator remains in the superconducting state the current path is maintained through the HTSCM layer of the coil . Irradiating or illuminating the portion of the HTSCM layer at the split base by the transition devices drives the superconductive switch above the superconductivity threshold temperature thereby significantly raising electrical resistance very suddenly to open the coil s circuit current path at the split base where the gap in the nickel layer is located.

This transition establishes a circuit path for current to be injected into the coil from the energy source in the non superconducting state. Terminating the irradiation of the transition devices reestablishes the superconductive property of the HTSCM layer and closes circuit current path again for the helical winding of the coil . In this manner the coil and the core remain intact for repeated use in contrast to physical destruction after singular activation in conventional FCG designs.

Many options are available for transition devices that can destabilize the superconducting state of an HTSCM such as by high magnetic fields temperature and ablation or physical destruction of the HTSCM. The transition devices depict notational representations of diode lasers. These devices transition the state of the HTSCM by applying heat via thermal radiation. Upon heating a portion of the HTSCM beyond the threshold temperature the transition propagates along the axial length of the helical winding in a cascade transition. Multiple transition devices disposed along the coil can accelerate the process leading to higher transition rates and therefore higher output voltages with the adjustment frequency content.

The dielectric core forms a nonconductive base that supports the structure while not significantly affecting the magnetic flux density generated by the FCG. An appropriate dielectric material also ensures against saturation of the device that limits the maximum energy values obtained by the system. The HTSCM helical coil represents the electrically inductive structure used to develop the magnetic flux fields. The helical coil comprises an HTSCM ribbon as a layer overlaid on a metal substrate that wraps around the dielectric core . A superconducting closed current path as the stator forms between the helical coil and the HTSCM core conductor when in the superconducting state.

The HTSCM core conductor represents a co axial wire disposed in the center of the helical winding within the dielectric core . This conductor connects the two ends of the helical windings to form a closed continuous HTSCM circuit path for electrical current during the operation of the FCG in the superconducting state. By contrast the substrate base metal of the core carries the current while the HTSCM circuit has transitioned in a non superconducting state.

The conductive shorting spline is an electrically conductive material disposed between windings of the HTSCM helical coil to produce a continuous low impedance path for the current as the coil transitions to the non superconducting state. This spline can comprise any conductive material having high relative impedance while the HTSCM operates in the superconducting state and low relative impedance while the HTSCM remains in a non superconducting state. The conductive spline functions to enable a continuous circulation of current during the reduction of the number of superconductive windings in the coil thereby compressing the magnetic flux.

The load switch constitutes a transition mechanism that facilitates the transfer of energy from the helical winding to an appropriate load during the final state of operation when compression of the flux reaches maximum so that the potential energy also reaches maximum. The load switch which is normally open closes to connect the inductive elements of the FCG to the reactive load designed to deliver a high voltage pulse. This can be a pulse forming network an antenna or another FCG.

FCG design considerations include the option of low inductance helical winding for the coil . Eleven primary components constitute preferable criteria for the low inductance FCG . The environmental enclosure remains similar to the enclosure for the high inductance FCG . The energy source for a low inductance FCG provides power to all electrical and electronic mechanisms to establish or transition the state of the FCG. For the low inductance FCG the energy source may also energize the loader coil effectively a primary winding of the FCG depending on the configuration of the transformer topology.

The low inductance FCG can be more efficiently energized through the utilization of a transformer topology whereby the loader coil is placed either collinearly with the HTSCM coil auto transformer topology or in parallel standard cage transformer topology . both depict an auto transformer arrangement. To incorporate a parallel configuration an external power source may be preferred for simplicity in the final design.

The controller and sensor device for the low inductance FCG is similar to its counterpart device for the high inductance FCG . The low inductance FCG may also use the same transition devices as for the high inductance FCG except that the superconductive switch can optionally be omitted from the design. The HTSCM helical coil for the low inductance FCG is similar to its counterpart coil for the high inductance FCG . The low inductance FCG may also employ the same dielectric core HTSCM core conductor conductive shorting spline load switch and the reactive load as for the high inductance FCG .

For designing the low inductance stacked ring FCG there are ten primary components. The environmental enclosure remains similar to the counterpart enclosure for the low inductance FCG . The energy source for a low inductance FCG provides power to all electrical and electronic mechanisms to establish the state of the HTSCM and may also energize the loader coil depending on the configuration of the transformer topology. The low inductance FCG may also use the same dielectric core conductive shorting spline load switch and reactive load as for the high inductance FCG .

The HTSCM ring stack represents a unique design implementation made possible through the use of HTSCM while in the superconducting state. Each of the ring elements remains electrically isolated from its neighboring elements. These rings in the stack can be excited through inductive processes by using transformer topology. The stack exhibits energy latency while in the superconducting state. Once induced current continues to circulate around the rings until they transition into the non superconducting state.

For this low inductance FCG topology the core conductor unnecessary and thus merely optional into the design because each ring of the stack creates the closed path while in a superconducting state. Conservation of flux ensures energy transfer from ring element to ring element in the stack during transition. The conductive shorting spline forms a low impedance path from the last active elements to the reactive load during final stages of superconductive to non superconducting state transition.

Operation of the high inductance FCG can be described by the following steps First energize the FCG by the following a establish the threshold environment b activate the energy source c activate the superconductive switch such as the transition device to illuminate the HTSCM bridge represented by a terminal segment of the coil d inject current into the HTSCM stator as the coil plus the conductor and the core e upon reaching threshold condition shift the current from the metal substrate of the coil f deactivate transition device to reintroduce the HTSCM continuous path on the coil as the HTSCM stator g continue to circulate current until exceeding the superconductive threshold.

Step c can be accomplished by driving a short length of the coil above the superconductive temperature threshold at the split base that represents a feed lug. This produces a temporary electrical gap between that feed lug and ground . The feed lug designates a position for initiation of current of the coil as the HTSCM stator.

Second flux compression initiated through sequential activation of transition devices h initiate the transition device at a feed lug of the coil as the stator i initiate transition device in sequence from a feed lug e.g. junction connector of the reactive load j compress magnetic flux as current engages an alternative path onto the electrically short spline and I activate the load switch . In step h activation of the transition device causes the HTSCM to exceed the threshold temperature and enter a state of low conductivity i.e. high resistance relative to the base metal strip . Step j reduces stator length i.e. conduction path of the coil and thereby reduces inductance of the HTSCM stator which can be represented as the coil plus the conductor and the core . Step I releases energy into the load which can be an inductive load such as an antenna a specialized pulse forming network or another FCG placed in series. This energy release induces the EMP.

Operation of the low inductance FCG can be described by the following steps First the FCG is energized by the following a establish the threshold environment b directly load the current to the HTSCM stator as the coil plus the conductor and the core by induction between the loader coil and the secondary coil c couple current directly onto the coil as the HTSCM stator upon reaching the threshold condition and d continue to circulate current until exceeding the superconductive temperature threshold that deactivates the loader coil . Step b can also be accomplished by E FCG configurations. The HTSCM stator can be represented as the coil plus the core .

Second flux compression is initiated through sequential activation of transition devices e initiate transition device at a feed lug of the stator f initiate the transition device in sequence from a feed lug e.g. junction connector of the reactive load g compress magnetic flux as current engages an alternative path onto the electrically short spline thereby reducing inductance of the coil and h activate the load switch . In step f activation of the transition device causes the HTSCM to exceed the threshold temperature and achieve a state of low conductivity i.e. high resistance relative to the base metal strip . Step h releases energy into the reactive load which can be an inductive load such as an antenna a specialized pulse forming network or another FCG placed in series. This energy release induces the EMP.

Operation of the low inductance FCG can be described by the following steps First the FCG is energized by the following a establish the threshold environment b directly load the current to the ring stack as the HTSCM stator by induction between the loader coil and the ring stack c couple current directly onto the ring stack upon reaching the threshold condition and d continue to circulate current until exceeding the superconductive threshold for each ring element of the stack . Deactivate and disable the loader coil . The HTSCM stator can be represented as the stack plus the core . In step b current couples directly onto the stack in the superconducting condition but otherwise current couples to the substrate base metal of the core .

Second flux compression initiated through sequential activation of transition devices e initiate transition device at a feed lug of the stator f initiate the transition device in sequence from a feed lug e.g. junction connector of the reactive load g compress magnetic flux as current engages an alternative path onto the electrically short spline thereby reducing inductance of the stack and h activate the load switch to release energy to the reactive load . In step g activating the transition devices for any HTSCM element of the stack causes the HTSCM to exceed its threshold temperature and enter a state of low conductivity high resistance relative to the base metal strip. The energy release in step h induces the EMP.

Conservation of magnetic flux ensures that energy couples onto the ring elements in the stack that remain in the superconducting state. The transition devices can be initiated in a preferred sequence. Magnetic flux compression occurs as conservation of flux translates more current into the final remaining elements in the stack that still maintain their superconducting state. Activation of the load switch in step h releases energy via the conductive spline and switches into an inductive load such as an antenna a specialized pulse forming network or another FCG placed in series.

Advantages of these exemplary embodiments include simplicity. Because of the physical characteristics and behavior of HTSCMs additional techniques to design a highly effective stator are available that would be impractical for a conventional E FCG. An example of this is the stacked ring topology for the stator for the FCG . The HTSCM enables the stacked ring topology to be utilized because of the current latency available to a superconductive closed path.

Consequently this simpler safer and more reliable mechanism can be employed to energize the system rather than explosive FCGs E FCGs that typically rely on a Marx generator for energizing. Other advantages include mitigation against hazards of electromagnetic radiation to ordnance HERO mitigation scalability modularity frequency tunability improved quality assurance. Marx generators are circuits designed to yield a high voltage pulse and employed for simulating lighting discharges.

Elimination of HERO concerns for storage and maintenance can be accomplished as exemplary FCG devices do not contain chemical explosives. Further information on HERO is available in NAVSEA OP 3565 NAVAIR 16 1 529 v. 2 16 e Technical Manual Electromagnetic Radiation Hazards 2007 ch. 2 available at http www.everyspec.com USN NAVSEA OP3565 NAVAIR16 1 529 VOLUME 2.8137.pdf. Component stacking facilitates modular design. An E FCG has only a limited range of effective frequencies and these tend to be very low. A properly designed FCG that incorporates HTSCM enables the magnetic flux to generate and collapse at rates governed by the electron pairing speed in pico seconds ps being limited by threshold mechanism switching speed in nano seconds ns .

Improved quality assurance can be provided by exemplary embodiments due to their nondestructive operation. By contrast an E FCG cannot be thoroughly tested prior to employment due to consumption of the solenoid and cylinder. A properly designed FCG using HTSCM can employ non destructive test procedures to ensure all components are operational prior to employment through built in tests bit . For a stacked ring topology failure of a small portion of ring elements due to damage of manufacturing flaws does not significantly reduce operational effectiveness. Designs are feasible with contemporary and developing HTSCM technologies System capability is limited only by the available HTSCM technology. However because this represents a very active field for scientific research future developments are expected to significantly enhance design capabilities.

The FCG produces the pulse via the pulse forming network. The reactive load directs that pulse whether to the environment or to another FCG. The energy source can be a small battery for milliamp devices or else a capacitively loaded current generator . The current pulse can be delivered to the reactive load via at least one of several conduits primarily the conductive spline for a primary portion of the path the HTSCM coil or center conductor and the nickel of the HTSCM ribbon but not through the dielectric material in the core . The nickel conducts during the current loading by its interconnecting portions overlaid on the spline in the non superconducting state.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

