---

title: Upload security scheme
abstract: The need for upload security arises during content sharing between users in communication link with each other and a server. In one embodiment, providing the upload security involves the server identifying a mobile device that sends an upload message destined to a user. Providing the upload security further involves the server accessing opt-in parameters predetermined by the user, determining if the identity of the sending mobile device is included in the opt-in parameters, and, if so, allowing the upload to the user's account, otherwise blocking the upload. The opt-in parameters include the identity of mobile devices that are authorized by the user to upload data to the user's account. In one embodiment, the communication link includes a wireless carrier network with capability for security screening of the upload message before it reaches the server based on the identity of the wireless carrier network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09021249&OS=09021249&RS=09021249
owner: Yahoo! Inc.
number: 09021249
owner_city: Sunnyvale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100909
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. Non Provisional application Ser. No. 10 934 645 filed on Sep. 2 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 797 529 and entitled UPLOAD SECURITY SCHEME which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 518 898 filed Nov. 10 2003 and entitled BACK BUTTON IN MOBILE APPLICATION U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 518 858 filed Nov. 10 2003 and entitled NAVIGATION PATTERN ON A DIRECTORY TREE U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 518 857 filed Nov. 10 2003 and entitled BACKUP AND RESTORE IN MOBILE APPLICATIONS and U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 518 897 filed Nov. 10 2003 and entitled UPLOAD SECURITY SCHEME each of the non provisional and provisional applications being incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention relates generally to wireless mobile devices and more particularly to applications that offer upload security. Among such applications one type is a mobile photos application.

Mobile friendly technologies are advanced to provide a rich multimedia environment and enhance the wireless device users experience. An outcome of this evolution is the manifest closeness between the wireless universe and the Internet domain as well as the advent of wireless devices with multimedia capabilities. The newest versions of mobile wireless devices such as digital mobile phones pagers personal digital assistants PDAs handsets and any other wireless terminals have multimedia capabilities including the ability to retrieve e mail and push and pull information via the Internet.

One practice these capabilities allow is sharing content such as photos. At the same time there needs to be a way for managing this activity. One reason for controlling content sharing is security. Typically the need for security arises from the risk of unauthorized access to data. In the case of content sharing the need for security arises from the additional risk of unauthorized imposition where a sender mobile user uploads unwanted or excess content for a recipient without first obtaining the recipient s permission. Accordingly the present invention provides possible ways for addressing the risks associated with unauthorized imposition.

The present invention is based in part on the observation that a need exists for upload security and that it can be improved as described below. Accordingly the upload security concept is implemented so as to allow content sharing without the imposition of unwanted or too frequent uploads.

For the purpose of this invention as embodied and broadly described herein a method a computer readable medium and a system are proposed as possible implementations of the upload security concept. These implementations typically involve a server in communication link with a plurality of mobile devices. In the examples below the mobile devices are typically wireless devices such as wireless camera phones and the content is photograph data or simply one or more photos .

In one embodiment a method for providing upload security includes identifying the mobile device used by a sender of an upload message destined to a user in response to the server receiving the upload message from the mobile device via a network. The method also includes accessing in the server opt in parameters predetermined by the user determining if the identity of the mobile device used by the sender is included in the opt in parameters and if so allowing upload of content from the upload message to the account associated with the user. Otherwise the upload is blocked. The opt in parameters include the identity of mobile devices that are authorized by the user to upload data to an account on the server associated with the user. In addition optionally the opt in parameters include a limit number of upload messages which are authorized by the user during a given period and wherein the method further comprises determining if the limit number for the sender is exceeded by the upload message such that it is not permitted by the user and thus the upload is blocked. If the upload is blocked the method optionally includes rerouting the upload message to a standard email address of the user.

In this embodiment the network includes a wireless carrier network and a networking service which provides security screening of the upload message before it reaches the server based on the identity of the wireless carrier network. The identity of the wireless carrier network includes an internet protocol IP address. The identity of the wireless phone is a phone number assigned to it by the bearer of the wireless carrier network. In this instance the IP address is combined with the identity of the mobile device in the upload message such that the method further includes parsing the upload message to obtain the IP address and the identity of the mobile device.

Further in this method the sender uses email as a transport mechanism for the upload message. The sender identifies to the server the user for whom the upload message is destined by indicating the user s email address. Then the server correlates the user s email address with the account associated with the user. If the capability exists the method further includes establishing a communication link from the sender s mobile device to the user in order to prompt the user to indicate on the user s mobile device or personal computer whether the user wants to add the sender s mobile device identity to the opt in parameters in order to allow the upload .

The approach described above can be implemented in a computer readable medium embodying a computer program with program code for providing the upload security. In this implementation the computer program is divided into parts one part being at a server side a second part being at a client side and a third part being at a networking service. A system for providing the upload security includes the server plurality of the mobile devices and typically also a wireless network the Internet and a gateway through which the server communicates with the mobile devices. The server is configured with a processor and a memory embodying a server side program as a portion of a computer application. The server side program includes program code for causing the processor in the server to perform the aforementioned identifying accessing determining and authorizing steps in response to the server receiving from such mobile the upload message.

As can be understood from these examples by introducing the upload security capability to the system the present invention makes the content sharing more useful secure and user friendly. Such advantages will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art from the description and practice of the invention disclosed herein.

The present invention contemplates upload security and implementation of this concept in mobile applications. One such application is mobile photos an example of which is referred to as the Yahoo Photos application. Yahoo and Yahoo Photos are trademarks of Yahoo Inc. Sunnyvale Calif. Any other trademarks are the property of their respective holders.

Although it can be implemented in various applications for clarity and for illustration the approach contemplated by the present invention is described here in the context of the Yahoo Photos application. The server side of this application is the server Yahoo Photos and the client side of this application is the mobile client application or client Yahoo Photos. A client application is generally considered to be a downloadable application namely J2ME Java 2 platform Micro Edition by Sun Microsystems Inc. Yahoo Photos or any other application that is downloadable to the mobile device. In the example here the client Yahoo Photos runs on a mobile phone and more specifically a mobile camera phone.

Wireless protocols the standards which govern communications of data between wireless devices and the Internet utilize and support the enhanced capabilities of modern mobile wireless devices and Internet content technologies. Hypertext transfer protocol HTTP is an often used standard and other standards include the Wireless Application Protocol WAP M services i Mode and Web clipping. Although other protocols are also possible WAP appears to provide a proper framework for the content sharing. Therefore adoption of standards such as WAP is suitable for the purpose of the present invention and it is discussed in some detail below.

The adoption of WAP builds on existing Internet standards and protocols adapted for use in wireless communication networks and addresses the unique characteristics of mobile wireless devices with limited computing memory display user interface and power capabilities . WAP is a specification suite defining a set of protocols for presentation and delivery of wireless information and telephony services on mobile wireless devices. WAP services provide information access and delivery to WAP enabled devices. WAP was designed to empower users with easy and instant access to information and interactive services. Thus interoperability between WAP enabled device is possible through any WAP compliant infrastructure to deliver timely information and accept transaction and queries.

WAP can be built on any operating system including PalmOS EPOC Windows CE FLEXOS OS 9 JAVA OS etc. Being air interface independent WAP is designed to be scalable to new networks as they develop allowing bearer independence and development of common solutions across disparate networks.

The term WAP is commonly used to refer to the wireless application environment WAE although it is WAE that includes the WAP suit of protocols and technologies. WAE provides the rich application environment which enables delivery of information and interactive services to mobile wireless devices. An important aspect of the WAE is the WAP stack namely the wireless protocol layers as shown for example in . At the bottom of the WAP stack 11 is a network layer topped by the transport layer the security layer the transaction layer and the session layer.

Briefly the network protocol layer supports network interface definitions governing interface with the networks of wireless service providers wireless bearers such as short message service SMS code division multiple access CDMA cellular digital packet data CDPD general packet radio service GPRS high speed circuit switched data HSCSD third generation 3G GSM global system for mobile communications and unstructured supplementary service data USSD channel. The wireless transport layer supports the wireless datagram protocol WDP and when operating over an IP Internet protocol network layer WDP is replaced with user datagram protocol IP UDP IP . WDP offers to the upper protocol layers a datagram service and transparent communication over the underlying bearer services. In other words WDP offers to the upper protocol layers a common interface to and ability to function independent of the type of bearer wireless network. The wireless transport layer security WTLS provides a secure transport service to preserve the privacy authentication and data integrity of the transport service at the layer below as well as the ability to create and terminate secure connections between communicating applications. The transaction protocol WTP layer provides transaction oriented protocol for the WAP datagram service including for example request response transactions. The wireless session protocol WSP layer provides HTTP 1.1 functionality and features such as session suspend resume. The WSP provides the upper level application lever of the WAE with an interface to connection and connectionless services operating above the transaction protocol and the datagram transport layers respectively.

The WAE i.e. the wireless application environment is further fashioned with a wireless markup language WML micro browser a WML script virtual machine a WML script standard library a wireless telephony application interface TAI and WAP content types. The WAP micro browser also referred to as the WAP browser facilitates interaction between WAP Web applications and WAP enabled devices. The micro browser is a tag based wireless browser application supporting wireless markup language WML and extensible transport hyperlink markup language XTHML . The micro browser uses the card metaphor for user interface where user interactions are split into cards. The WAP card metaphor provides a common interface to which all applications can conform much like the desktop metaphor in PCs. The micro browser supports user actions defined at tree levels deck card and select link options i.e. etc. and default tasks etc. . For example a deck of cards is split into a navigation card variables card and input elements card. A navigation card is formed as a script encapsulated with the card tags. The following example of a card includes the type of interaction and link e .

Indeed with this capability users can capture photo images in their mobile devices store and manipulate the captured images and upload data of the captured images to a server e.g. server . Thus the server operates as a repository for the data of photo images and users can download from the server to their mobile devices data of previously captured photo images as well as store and manipulate such images. Photos resident on one mobile device can be shared with another via the server and the communication network s and .

In this wireless interconnect model the mobile phones used to download the Yahoo Photos client side program are WAP enabled. As shown in the WAP enabled devices support the WAP protocol and the server typically supports the WWW world wide web protocol. In particular the wireless application environment at the mobile device side includes the micro browser a suite of WAP protocols at the network through session layers and the downloadable client side Yahoo Photos application program. The micro browser defines how WML documents and WML script applets should be interpreted and presented to the mobile device user. The Micro browser s WTA wireless telephone application functionality provides call control phone book access and messaging within WML script applets to allow selective call forwarding or other secure telephony. The wireless application environment at the server side includes the server side Yahoo Photos in addition to a standard web browser and WWW protocol stack HTTP and TCP IP .

To enable web based access to content service providers deploy wireless data through the carrier network while controlling the data communications to their subscribers and tracking the billable activity. Typically the gateway is tasked with tracking subscriber activities controlling access and in addition functioning as the proxy for the mobile device on the one hand and for the server on the other hand. The gateway is implemented building on standard web proxy technology to interconnect the services offered by the wireless service providers to the HTTP protocol so as to permit access to content on the wired Internet.

One model of interaction between a WAP enabled device the WAP enabled proxy gateway and the server is the Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP 1.1 response request transaction where HTTP 1.1 is profiled for the wireless environment. The gateway translates requests from the WAP protocol to the WWW protocol and vice versa translating WML HTML documents to HTML WML resolving domain names in URLs and providing a control point for managing access. From the WAP enabled gateway with encoders decoders the URL requests or WML documents possibly in encoded form can be sent encoded decoded to add security to the user interaction. Note that unlike the flat structure of HTML documents WML documents are divided into a set of user interaction units namely a deck of cards. Each user interaction unit is a card or page and the user can navigate between cards in one or more WML documents.

Another model of interaction between a WAP enabled device the WAP enabled proxy gateway and the server is the HTTP response request transaction protocol running on top of the Internet s TCP IP suite of protocols . This model is appropriate for the newer WAP 2.0 with protocol stack not shown in . Unlike the above mentioned and illustrated WAP stack 11 WAP 2.0 stack includes the IP TCP transmission control protocol TLS HTTP and WAE layers atop the network layer all of which are profiled for wireless environment . For example the wireless profile for the TLS protocol will permit interoperability for secure transactions.

Yet another model of interaction via bearer networks between 3 generation 3G enabled mobile devices and servers or other devices is shown in . As shown a 3G terminal supports higher speed wider band wireless cellular service communications based on various technologies including wide code division multiple access W CDMA general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE unified threat management system UMTS and high speed circuit switched data HSCSD . A 3G terminal is equipped with cordless connections for local short distance communications. The communication protocols in the 3G terminal are comparable to the open system interconnection OSI protocols layered in the OSI stack.

Various services are supported by these protocols including web browsing short message service SMS multimedia messaging service MMS e mail M commerce real time video and pre paid. The MMS for example is a store and forward messaging service capable of adding multimedia elements to SMS including images text audio clips and video clips. MMS is synchronized across a common timeline rather than being discrete like e mail and SMS it is akin to a presentation layer over e mail and looking like a slide show with images. On a compatible phone the MMS message will appear with a new message alert. The picture message will open on the screen the text will appear below the image and the sound will begin to play automatically.

Downloadable applications such as Yahoo Photos and network games are likewise supported in the 3G terminal and interact with services such as MMS. The originator can easily create a multimedia message either using a built in or accessory camera or can use images and sounds stored previously in the phone and possibly downloaded from a web site . However for simplicity the following description assumes that the mobile device is a WAP enabled camera phone used for downloading photo applications such as the Yahoo Photos.

As further shown in the Yahoo enabled phone supports wireless cellular service communications based on various technologies such as the GPRS and GSM. This device is configured for supporting WAP communication protocols at all layers of the WAP stack . Various services shown as being supported by these protocols include web browsing SMS MMS e mail M commerce real time video and pre paid. The downloadable programs shown to interact with such services include the network games and Yahoo Photos.

The mobile device functionality is preferably implemented using a platform such as the J2ME platform which is tailored for a broad range of embedded devices including mobile phones. The J2ME platform includes a set of standard Java APIs application programming Interface and provides a user interface a security model built in network protocols e.g. WAP as shown in and support for networked and disconnected applications Yahoo Photos is a networked application .

With the J2ME platform applications are written once for a wide range of device. Applications leveraging each device s native capabilities are then downloaded dynamically. The J2ME platform defines configurations profiles and optional packages as elements for building complete Java run time environments. Configurations are composed of a virtual machine and a minimal set of class libraries and provide the base functionality for a particular range of devices that share similar characteristics. Current configurations include connected limited device configuration CLDC for devices with limited memory and processing capabilities e.g. mobile phones two way pagers and PDAs and connected device configuration CDC for devices with better memory processing and network bandwidth capabilities e.g. TV set top boxes residential gateways in vehicle telematics systems and hi end PDAs . However in order to provide a complete runtime environment targeted at specific device categories the configurations must be combined with a set of the high level APIs or profiles that further define the application life cycle model access to device specific properties and user interface.

One example of profiles is the mobile information device profile MIDP which is designed for mobile phones and entry level PDAs. MIDP offers a core application functionality required by mobile applications including user interface network connectivity local data storage and application management. The J2ME can be further extended by combining various optional packages and their corresponding profiles to address specific market requirements e.g. Bluetooth web services wireless messaging multimedia and database connectivity.

Note that the example here focuses on the camera phone but the principles of the present invention are not limited to camera phones. Any phone or other wireless mobile device can embody a variation of the present invention. When the mobile device is a smart handset downloading application programs and implementing the upload security scheme are possible even though the communications with the service provider may be different in character.

It should be mentioned that although the manufacturer provides the Yahoo enabled phone with camera functionality i.e. functionality for capturing images and saving displaying manipulating transmitting and receiving data of image this camera functionality is independent from the Yahoo Photos program. That is data of the captured images reside in the mobile phone outside the Yahoo Photos environment until such time that this data is introduced to the Yahoo Photos environment by being first uploaded to the Yahoo server and then downloaded to the local mobile Yahoo Photos album as will be later explained.

On mobile devices various client application programs are offered to the user on a default start up or main menu screen or on a manufacturer installed virtual vending machine screen. Other selection items include for example the menu item for setting the sound. These start up and vending screens show a menu with a list or icons of applications which the user can obtain by following an install procedure. The menu provides links to various service web sites including for example the Yahoo Photos site. The links of course are URLs Uniform Resource Locator i.e. the world wide web address of a site on the Internet and on the Yahoo enabled phone at least one such menu item is the link for downloading the Yahoo Photos application.

If the user accepts the offer to buy the application the order is confirmed and the application is downloaded into the mobile phone becoming resident on the mobile phone. show the respective PC based and mobile based registration and buy flow diagrams.

Incidentally as shown in if the user confirms acceptance assuming the user has an account on the server having signed in before the user is prompted to provide the telephone number of the mobile phone. With that phone number the server sends a short message embedded with a link to the mobile phone and causes the mobile phone to vibrate or otherwise signals the user with a message requesting confirmation of the purchase . With this confirmation the server proceeds to send the program to the mobile phone.

As shown in registration can originate on the PC or the mobile phone. In the PC based registration process once the compatible phone list is reviewed and the phone is deemed compatible registration can go forward starting with the user entering the 10 digit mobile phone number . The service provider dials the 10 digit phone number and requests confirmation from the user via that mobile phone . The user is also prompted to follow the buy instructions or follow the link to the vending machine . Once the download takes place the Yahoo Photos client home page is presented on the mobile screen. Alternatively rather than indirectly via the PC a program such as Yahoo Photos can be purchased directly via the mobile phone as shown in . That is the registration process originating from the mobile phone is launched from the menu page e.g. Yahoo home pages or . Beyond that the link to virtual vendor machine page download page confirmation page and home page are similar to those in .

For implementing upload security as mentioned above the registration and buy process of includes setting the upload opt in parameters. shows an upload opt in process for setting the user s upload parameters that establish the user s upload preferences once the upload opt in module is invoked . Preferably at the PC the user is prompted to enter the service provider issued phone numbers of mobile phones authorized by the user to upload their photos to the user s Yahoo Photos account on the server . The user is additionally prompted to enter one or more of the user s e mails e.g. or other e mails e.g. through which the photos are uploaded to the user account . The e mails are posted on the approved list. Although it is not shown the user can additionally pre select the maximum number of upload messages the user wants to receive in a day or any other predefined period of time . At the end of this selection process the user is prompted to confirm the entries before they are stored in the database for future reference. An upload Management Panel shows the approved list of email addresses with functionality to add new email addresses to the approved list enable disable or edit delete particular email addresses existing in the approved list.

Once the Yahoo Photos program is resident on the mobile phone it can be invoked from the landing page or menu page using the menu button on the phone to bring up the menu or using the default menu if Yahoo Photos is presented as one of the default menu options . Invocation of the Yahoo Photos application allows among others user access and manipulation of the user s mobile album as well as online albums in the user account. show the screen flows for online albums and mobile albums respectively.

Invocation of Yahoo Photos prompts this program to display the home page . with two main options mobile album and online album as shown in . The mobile album is an album of photos stored locally on the mobile phone so that the user need not go out over the network to obtain them. The online album is an album of photos stored on the server in the user s account. As mentioned before photo images can be captured and manipulated by the mobile phone outside the Yahoo Photos environment. These photo images will not be available at the mobile or online albums until they are uploaded to the server stored in the online album and then selectively or in batch downloaded to the mobile album and vice versa. Accordingly selecting online album allows the user to access and manipulate photo images that have already been uploaded to the server from the user s PC or mobile phone and stored in the online album. Likewise selecting mobile album allows the user to access and manipulate photo images that have been already downloaded from the server into the mobile album.

Then if the online album option is selected from the Yahoo Photos client program home page . as shown in it prompts the program to display the next page which is the sign in page . . It requires the user to follow a sign in procedure that typically includes providing a Yahoo ID and user password. The sign in procedure will among others bring up the user s account and relate it to the user s online albums. That is the sign in procedure allows the user to access his account via the Internet and other proprietary network if applicable .

The next page is the my online albums page . . For the specific user this online albums page lists the names of photo albums available to the named user which are associated with the user s account. Of course only albums that are on the server are listed and if the selected album is empty the next page will display an indication to that effect i.e. this album is currently empty at page .. . Alternatively if the album is not empty selecting that album will bring up the next page the photo list page for that album .. . In the photo list page a photo can be selected for downloading it from the server onto the mobile phone. Additionally a selected photo can be opened or other actions can be invoked in relation to it. The other actions are presented in a menu that is shown on the screen as a pull down menu pop up menu or a menu superimposed on any part of the current page in this example the menu is shown as a pull down menu .

Such menu hereafter photo options menu provides a number of selection items each of each representing an action including save to mobile email photo screen saver thumbnails online albums and home. Each selection brings up a page that corresponds to the selected action item. Two of the action items have already been discussed above home and online album. Selecting home will lead the user back to the home page . and selecting online album will lead the user to the aforementioned my online albums page . .

Selecting thumbnails brings up a photo thumbs page .. that shows a group of thumbnail photo images from the selected album. Note that the number of photo thumb groups downloaded from the server depends on the memory size of the mobile phone or whatever device is used . With this feature the user can then thumbnail through the groups of photos in the album. The groups of thumbnail photo images in this album are each loaded from the server. The user can then move between the images back and forth scroll back and forth and select any one of the photos in the thumbnails page. A selected thumbnail image will be enlarged in the next page the online photo page .. .

As can be seen each of the pages photo list .. photo thumbs .. and online photo .. includes the photo options menu feature. Among these action items when save to mobile is invoked from the photo list page photo thumbs page or online photo page it causes the selected photo image previously downloaded from the server to be saved in the mobile album on the mobile phone. The added to mobile page .. is brought up in this case to show the photo being saved and to give an indication that saving is done.

When email photo action is invoked the share as email page comes up .. . This page shows the photo s selected for emailing and prompts the user for the email address. In this implementation a number of recently used email addresses are provided. Incidentally email is simply a transport mechanism which is presently used to send photos from camera phones. Other transport mechanisms may be developed and employed for this application. Then when the photo is emailed from the mobile phone to the selected e mail address a message pops up indicating that the email has been sent or if not that an error occurred. For example a transmission will fail if the user is not authorized to upload photos to the selected e mail. An error message of this kind is a product of the upload security scheme contemplated by the present invention as embodied in the Yahoo Photos application program. More details on the upload security are provided below with reference to B and C.

When the screen saver action is invoked the selected photo will be used to populate the screen when the phone is idle standing by or starting up. The screen saver option is associated with screen saver page .. which shows the selected photo and requires the user to select OK or cancel to add this photo to the screen saver photo roster. A message pops up to indicate the status of the photo download.

Going back to the mobile album is possible with the photo options menu via the home page using the home option as discussed above. Another way for getting to the mobile album or any other previous page is with the back action using the back button as will be later explained. Also as mentioned above when the Yahoo Photos application is invoked from the landing menu page the home page . presents the mobile album as one of the selection items. Accordingly the mobile album can be directly accessed via the home page.

The mobile album screen flow shown in starts with the home page . and selection of the mobile album brings up the mobile photo list page .. . This page presents two action menus open and action. Thus selection of any of the listed photos can be followed by selecting open or action. As before when open is selected the photo is shown on the screen in the photo thumbs page .. . When actions is selected a mobile photo action menu is provided. This menu includes action items such as slide show move delete photo delete all photos thumbnails history and home. 

Except for the photos being local at the mobile album the thumbnails feature associated with the photo thumbs page .. works as described above with reference to the online album. A photo selected on the mobile photo thumbs page can be enlarged as shown in the next page the mobile photo page .. . The menu for the photo thumbs and mobile photo pages includes a subset of the aforementioned mobile photo action menu.

When the slide show is invoked from such a menu the mobile slide show page comes up . . While this feature is active the slide show will scroll through the mobile album photos showing each photo for a certain period. The slide show will go on until the user selects stop on the bottom of the page. If the user selects actions a slide show menu gives the user the options of pause show normal and fast. The pause option is selected for pausing the slide show slow will slow down the slide show speed will speed up the slide show and normal will bring it to normal speed. parts i and ii describes setting up favorites for the mobile album slideshow part i describes the process in the mobile device and part ii describes the process originating at the PC .

As further shown in the move page comes up .. when the move action referred to also as rearrange action is selected from any one of the three pages .. .. and .. . In this page the program displays a group of photos thumbnails and the user can rearrange the photos using the 5 point navigation key as well as choose to drop a photo or save it shows flow diagrams for photos view share and save . When the delete or delete all actions are selected the user has the option of deleting or canceling the delete action as shown in pages .. and .. . The delete page shows the photo selected for deletion to allow the user to change their mind. When all the photos are deleted or when the mobile album is empty to begin with the mobile album empty page is displayed .. . It allows the user to select the home page or select the answer to any one of the queries such as where are my photos and what is the mobile album . Selection of the latter will bring up the about page ... and in this page pressing OK provides user access to the online album s . Selection of the former brings up the restore album page .... The restore function is explained in more detail below.

Note that when the user signs in the server associates the user s identification with his historical record so that the application program can record backup the photo in the server each time the user saves a photo to the mobile album. This historical record serves as a backup that allows the user to restore his album if the Yahoo Photos program is erased for any reason from the mobile phone memory and the user then reloads this program. This history feature is useful to reduce the navigation for restoring the mobile album since the server maintains this information in the user s client account.

It is important to note that although the history feature is described in the context of the Yahoo Photos program it is useful in any mobile device application where backup is desired. Thus although this feature is implemented for the Yahoo Photos application it can be implemented more generically for other applications.

In the Yahoo Photos context every photo from the user s online album that is saved to the mobile album is remembered by the server. Preferably since the page traversal path is not predictive the history is recorded accurately and fully. This is made possible with the association of the user s Yahoo ID to a user s historical record on the server that records all photos saved by the user to the mobile album. Moreover since each mobile phone device is distinct and a user may have more than one device each device can in principle have its own distinct historical record. However it can be arranged when the user first establishes or later updates his account that the user s Yahoo ID is associated with a plurality of mobile phones and upon signing in the user can have access to his historical record from any one of these mobile phones. Thus in a situation where the Yahoo Photos program is deleted somehow or photos in the mobile album are erased for some reason the historical record provides a mobile album backup for restoring that album.

To that end when the user reloads the application it will query the user as to whether the user wishes to restore any of the mobile album photos. That is when the user selects the query where are my photos in page .. the restore album page is displayed ... . As with the previous page .. this page allows the user to go to the home page . and this time via OK it allows the user to go to the next mobile restore album page .... for a historical photo download list of photos previously downloaded to the mobile phone .

Note that the pages shown in and discussed herein are exemplary rather than exhaustive and they do not necessarily include all possible pages or user interaction cards that a photo application such as Yahoo Photos presents. Moreover the reference designations call out numbers typically refer to the pages themselves rather than any portion of their content. Where applicable similar pages appear in different figures with the same call out numbers e.g. home page . although their respective contents can vary slightly.

As to navigating through the pages on the mobile phone the pages can be traversed forward as described above and they can be traversed backwards using the back button feature. provides a simplified diagram to illustrate the back button feature. As can be seen the back a level mode allows hierarchical backwards sequence traversal one level each time the back button is touch activated or clicked hereafter clicked . The back in sequence mode allows sequential backwards one page each time the back button is pressed. For example in back a level mode back a level takes the application from a photo page e.g. 6 one level up to the list of photos page and from there one more level up to the list of albums page and one more level up to the home page . As can be further seen in this example the back in sequence mode functions to take the application from the current photo page to the former photo page rather than up one level when the back button is touched. Additional activations of the back button will traverse through all the pages in reverse sequence.

It makes no difference if the back button feature is used while in the online album or mobile album part of the application. The principles apply equally well to both situations. Either way the steps pages traversed are remembered and they can be recorded server side locally or both on the server side and locally.

Having mentioned it in the above overview of the Yahoo Photos application we turn again to upload security for a more detailed description of this scheme in the context of Yahoo Photos. As indicated the idea is to provide a new scheme for uploading photos to online accounts in a secure manner so as to prevent spam and unauthorized uploading. At the outset the upload security scheme involves an opt in process in which prompts the Yahoo Photos user to pre register phone numbers of camera phones that will be authorized to upload to the user s Yahoo Photos account. For each phone authorized the user can also pre select the maximum number of upload messages the user wants to receive in a day or any other predefined period of time . At the end of this selection process the phone number the carrier and the message limit are stored in the database for future reference. At any point subsequent to the opt in phase when an email photo upload to a Yahoo Photos user account is conducted from any camera phone the upload security scheme refers to the user s predetermined upload parameters for authorization of the photo upload via that email. In particular when the email photo action is invoked by a user the share as email page .. comes up on the user s mobile device and shows the photo s selected for emailing. The page also prompts the user for an email address for the upload.

In one possible implementation a number of recently used destination email addresses are provided. The user can select one of these emails or enter a new destination email address. The user will send the photo to that address provided however that the user is allowed to upload photos to that destination user s Yahoo Photos account.

In this example the step shown in includes taking the photo on the mobile camera phone. Step varies with each device and it might be share or send the photo from the mobile phone. Step includes prompting the user to enter the destination email address.

As noted above even though this looks like a standard email address the recipient does not actually receive an email in his or her Yahoo Mail inbox. Rather email is the transport mechanism and the emails are sent to Yahoo Photos upload e mail servers. Each photo message is identified with a particular Yahoo Photos user account. This email address takes the form Yahoo ID photos.Yahoo.com. Suppose that the destination Yahoo ID is JSmith then the email is To jsmith photos.Yahoo.com and the Yahoo Photos upload e mail server identifies this email with JSmith s Yahoo Photos account. In a different version in addition to the photo this email includes the photo name and destination album JSmith s album on the Yahoo Photos Server.

The email transport protocol in this instance is SMTP simple mail transfer protocol defined in STD 10 RFC 821 which is commonly used to transfer electronic mail between computers. Among others MMS and SMS protocols are possible alternatives. SMTP is typically a server to server protocol so other protocols are used to access the messages. The SMTP dialog usually happens in the background under the control of the message transfer agent e.g. sendmail but it is possible to interact with an SMTP server using telnet to connect to the normal SMTP port. The local host of the carrier is typically identified by the IP address of its gateway.

Once the destination is known the email is sent from the mobile phone to the server i.e. Yahoo Photos upload email server note that Yahoo email and Yahoo Photos are shown as being handled by the same server but other configurations are possible . On its way to the server the photo email is transported via the carrier network e.g. Sprint PCS network and is first transmitted to carrier s SMTP Server. The carrier SMTP server then forwards the messages to Yahoo Photos upload SMTP servers.

At the carrier s server not specifically shown but represented by the carrier network the email sender s mobile phone number mobile ID number is identified and combined with the carrier s domain information to form the email source From IP address say 408 555 555 messaging.sprintpcs.com. As soon as the photo message arrives at Yahoo network the IP address of SMTP server that originates the photo message is checked for validity at the security layer in step of the destination side . An invalid carrier domain renders the IP address invalid and on such determination the security layer blocks the email from proceeding further where the Yahoo Photos upload email server does not receive the blocked email. An IP address that is deemed valid by the security layer is allowed to proceed to the Yahoo Photos upload e mail server .

After the photo message arrives at the Yahoo Photos upload e mail server the Yahoo ID i.e. JSmith is extracted from the destination email address i.e. jsmith photos.Yahoo.com in step of the destination side . The phone number and the carrier are extracted from the source address of the photo message. The phone number and carrier info are then used to check if the extracted destination Yahoo ID has given permission to upload to the destination user s Yahoo Photos account. As an example let us assume that the extracted sender s mobile phone number is 408 555 555 and the carrier is SprintPCS. In addition the extracted destination Yahoo ID is JSmith. The server will then check the database to see if the phone number and carrier is in JSmith s approved upload list. This is to verify that JSmith authorized the sender i.e. mobile phone 408 555 555 with SprintPCS to upload photos to JSmith s Yahoo Photos account. Upon determining that the upload is permitted the server uploads the photo to JSmith s Yahoo Photos account. Otherwise an unauthorized upload is discarded. In a different version the unauthorized email is redirected to a standard email address.

Having established the roles of the system components in the upload security scheme we move to the process diagram in . Again one way upload security can be established is by access control using mobile phone numbers. For each user the scheme requires the user to enter the approved mobile phone numbers. When an upload message is sent to the Yahoo Photos upload e mail server the mobile phone number and carrier domain information are part of the From IP address that accompanies the upload message. The phone number and carrier domain information are retrieved from the upload email message and the carrier domain information and mobile phone number are checked to determine if the upload is authorized .

Approval of the carrier takes place at the security layer even before the message gets to the Yahoo Photos upload e mail servers. A network level filter is introduced in order to provide access control using a list of SMTP gateways based on IP addresses. This filter blocks all messages that are not from a global access control list ACL . In this instance the global access control list is built by collecting from Yahoo s carrier partners IP addresses of SMTP gateways used for e mail photo sharing purpose. The messages sent from carriers that are not in the access control list are blocked at the network level . This way the Yahoo Photos upload email server receives only messages for uploading photos that are from carriers listed in the global ACL. Moreover the ACL improves efficiency in that it insures that the server need not process email messages from unauthorized carriers or spammers and can focus its resources on processing emails from authorized carriers.

Once the server receives the email the sender s phone number and the carrier are checked against the pre authorized list in the database which is associated with the destination user. If the pair of phone number and carrier exists in this list the photo will be retrieved and inserted into the user s Yahoo Photos account . Otherwise the message will be discarded. This insures that only photos sent from the mobile phones that are authorized are inserted into user s photos account.

Finally we turn to the flow diagram in for an overview of the upload rules. An email message sent to jdoe photos.yahoo.com is first filtered at the network security level . If it filters through the network security the message is routed to the Yahoo Photos upload email server for further verification which involved one or more steps. In one variation of this scheme only premium users who are Yahoo users have logged in before and have purchased the Yahoo Photos application who have a right to selectively grant access to upload photos can upload their email photo messages . Otherwise the message is discarded or optionally redirected to a standard Yahoo Mail address jdoe yahoo.com of the destination user . The recipient can proceed to accept the photo and manually upload and store select photos . Then whether or not the premium user feature is present and is turned ON OFF the next step involves determining if the sender s mobile phone number is on the user s approved list and is authorized to upload the photo. If the sender s phone number is not on the approved list the email message is discarded or optionally re directed to the destination user s standard email address .

One limitation the user can impose is the number of uploads permitted in a period of time e.g. day hour or week . This limitation is set during user registration. Accordingly the next step involves determining if the limit number x of permitted uploads is reached or not . If not the upload can proceed otherwise the message is discarded or optionally redirected to the user s standard email address .

In one variation a SMS message with embedded URL can be pushed to sender s mobile device if the sender is the owner of Yahoo Photos account. The sender can then click the link and authorize uploading via a WAP session.

Once a photo is uploaded the photo is stored in the user s account on the server . If the user s album is specifically identified the photo is directed to such album. If the photo name is identified the specific photo is uploaded and stored. It is anticipated that future photo programs will be designed with the capability to identify the photo by name and to identify the specific album to which the photo is directed.

In view of the above the upload security scheme improves efficiency and controls access to user accounts. With the ever growing problem of rogue broadcasts spasm and parasites the controlled access of upload security helps block unwanted uploads.

Additional implementation details associated with the foregoing description are provided below. These implementation details include an initial list of devices soft key mapping labels global elements and screen flows tables for the online albums and mobile albums. These details are described in the following pages.

The visual and interaction design as described herein should accommodate various types of mobile devices including for example those listed in the table below.

For the purpose of this invention the following keys are available on the mobile devices Up Down Left Right Select OK Left Soft key Right Soft key and Back. If a device does not have an obvious select key it is assumed that the MIDP mobile information device profile implementation will automatically provide a select option at one of the soft keys or in one of the soft key menus.

In a representative implementation labels that may appear on a soft key are restricted to 7 characters. Menu only items are restricted to 14 characters.

One type of global elements presented as Confirm Popup screens are used for displaying a confirmation to the user. The confirmation popup screens contain simple text such as Done or Saved and they disappears automatically after a short time.

The in progress screen informs the user that the application is waiting for a response from the server or is processing a request. Each device has a default screen with text and a moving graphic and alternatively it is replaced with a Yahoo Canvas screen.

As described above the online album pages are made available to the user in forward and backwards traversal each page having default selection items associated with it. The forward traversal starts of course with the home page . . The following tables outline for each page separately the default selection items available in that page for screen flows.

As with the online album the mobile album pages are made available to the user in forward and backwards traversal each page having default selection items associated with it. Here again the forward traversal starts of course with the home page . . The following tables outline for each page separately the default selection items available in that page for screen flows.

Although the present invention has been described in accordance with the embodiments shown variations to the embodiments would be apparent to those skilled in the art and those variations would be within the scope and spirit of the present invention. Accordingly it is in tended that the specification and embodiments shown be considered exemplary only with a true scope of the invention being indicated by the following claims and equivalents.

