---

title: Out-of plane comb-drive accelerometer
abstract: An out-of-plane comb-drive accelerometer. An example accelerometer linearizes a response. An example accelerometer includes one or more stators having a plurality of tines having a surface parallel to a surface of substrate. The tine surface is at a first distance from the surface of the substrate. A proof mass includes one or more rotors that include a plurality of rotor tines attached to an edge of the proof mass. The rotor tines are interleaved with corresponding ones of the stator tines. The rotor tines include a surface parallel to a surface of the substrate. The rotor tine surface is at a second distance from the surface of the substrate. The first distance and second distance are unequal by a threshold amount. Motion of the rotor relative to the stator in an out-of-plane direction provides a linear change in a capacitive value measured across the rotor and the stator.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08505380&OS=08505380&RS=08505380
owner: Honeywell International Inc.
number: 08505380
owner_city: Morristown
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100219
---
The invention described herein was made in the performance of work under U.S. Government Contract No. W31P4Q 07 D 0025 002 awarded by the United States Army. The Government may have rights to portions of this invention.

Out of plane micro electromechanical systems MEMS accelerometers typically use parallel plate capacitance pickoff sensing sense for open loop devices and parallel plate capacitance rebalance torque for closed loop devices. Both types of sensors are composed of two parallel plates separated by a narrow gap and having a voltage applied across them. In either case the functionality of the device derives from the variation in capacitance that occurs when the distance across the gap changes under acceleration.

Because capacitance varies inversely as a function of the square of the gap C A x where C capacitance and x the length of the gap the response of a parallel plate type accelerometer is inherently nonlinear. Due to the nonlinear dependence variation in the gap distance from environmental influences such as thermal deformation or vibration are difficult to remove by calibration.

The present invention includes an accelerometer for linearizing a response. An example accelerometer includes a substrate with one or more stators fixedly attached to the substrate. The stators include a plurality of tines having a surface parallel to a surface of the substrate. The tine surface is at a first distance from the surface of the substrate. A proof mass is rotatably attached to the substrate. The proof mass includes one or more rotors that include a plurality of rotor tines attached to an edge of the proof mass. The rotor tines are interleaved with corresponding ones of the stator tines. The rotor tines include a surface parallel to a surface of the substrate. The rotor tine surface is at a second distance from the surface of the substrate. The first distance and second distance are unequal by a threshold amount.

With this device motion of the rotor relative to the stator in an out of plane direction provides a linear change in a capacitive value measured across the rotor and the stator thus minimizing the effect of external environmental influences.

With the comb tooth structure the processor and the drive circuit connected in a loop the out of plane comb drive accelerometer operates in closed loop fashion. When the comb drive accelerometer experiences acceleration or rotation in a direction perpendicular to the plane of the comb tooth structure variation in a sense capacitance within the comb tooth structure is sensed as a change in voltage by the processor . The processor responds to the voltage change by varying a feedback signal it outputs to the drive circuit . The feedback signal is continuously adjusted by the processor to continuously drive drive components of the comb tooth structure toward an equilibrium null position. The voltage level required to compensate for the variation in capacitance is proportional to the acceleration experienced by the comb drive structure . The processor outputs a signal to the output device that corresponds to the signal sent to the drive components. The output device receives the signal from the processor and outputs displays as the measured acceleration or rotation rate.

The rotors and the stators are substantially planar structures each having a row of tines. The rotors and the stators are arranged so that they occupy substantially the same plane but with at least a minimal offset in the out of plane direction e.g. perpendicular to the surface . The tines of the rotors are interleaved with the tines of the stators . Between the tines is a gap across which a capacitance is measured.

The proof mass is suspended above the base substrate on flexural supports located remotely from the combs in a see saw manner. The flexural supports allow the proof mass and therefore the tines of the rotors to move vertically out of plane with respect to the tines of the stators . Motion in this direction does not change the gap between the rotors and the stators but directly leads to variation in the area of overlap between the tines of the rotors and the stators . The area of overlap is specifically the portions of the sidewalls of the rotor and stator tines that face one another across the gap. As the area of overlap varies with rotor tine motion the capacitance varies. Because the area of overlap varies linearly with movement of the rotor tines past the stator tines the variation in capacitance is also linear. The effect provides the comb tooth structure with decreased sensitivity to the influence of environmental noise such as thermal variation and vibration.

The processor is coupled to one of the stator and rotor of the sense combs . The drive circuit is coupled to one of the stator and rotor of the drive combs .

The sensitivity of the comb tooth structure is determined by the gap between the combs. The linearity is determined by the ratio of the offset to the thickness. The ratio between stator thickness and the magnitude of the offset is optimized in order to maintain a linear response and thereby minimize the sensitivity of the device to thermal effects and vibration.

The offset must occur along both the top and bottom edges. The stator and rotor can be of different thicknesses but this may affect the linearity of the mechanism. The ratio between thickness and offset is determined by the point at which small displacements in the mechanism will produce minimal changes in the electrical fringe fields at the top and bottom of the combs. This corresponds to having equal lengths for the top and bottom offsets and the overlapping structure in the middle of the comb thickness.

While the preferred embodiment of the invention has been illustrated and described as noted above many changes can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is not limited by the disclosure of the preferred embodiment. Instead the invention should be determined entirely by reference to the claims that follow.

