---

title: Communicating via a FEMTO access point within a wireless communications system
abstract: In an embodiment, a user of a wireless communications device (WCD) is notified when operating in a serving area of a FEMTO access point (AP). In another embodiment, the WCD can notify an application server (AS) that the WCD is served by the FEMTO AP. In another embodiment, the AS can set a service level for a server-arbitrated communication session (CS) based on the FEMTO AP serving status of participating WCDs. In another embodiment, the FEMTO AP can determine to use a downlink control or signaling channel to transmit data to the WCD. In another embodiment, based on its serving FEMTO AP status, the WCD can (i) modify its participation level in the CS and/or (ii) selectively track usage. In another embodiment, the WCD or FEMTO AP can measure performance parameters of the CS to determine whether to trigger a handoff of the WCD to a different AP.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09544943&OS=09544943&RS=09544943
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 09544943
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101104
---
Embodiments of the invention relate to communicating via a FEMTO access point AP within a wireless communications system.

Wireless communication systems have developed through various generations including a first generation analog wireless phone service 1G a second generation 2G digital wireless phone service including interim 2.5G and 2.75G networks and a third generation 3G high speed data Internet capable wireless service. There are presently many different types of wireless communication systems in use including Cellular and Personal Communications Service PCS systems. Examples of known cellular systems include the cellular Analog Advanced Mobile Phone System AMPS and digital cellular systems based on Code Division Multiple Access CDMA Frequency Division Multiple Access FDMA Time Division Multiple Access TDMA the Global System for Mobile access GSM variation of TDMA and newer hybrid digital communication systems using both TDMA and CDMA technologies.

The method for providing CDMA mobile communications was standardized in the United States by the Telecommunications Industry Association Electronic Industries Association in TIA EIA IS 95 A entitled Mobile Station Base Station Compatibility Standard for Dual Mode Wideband Spread Spectrum Cellular System referred to herein as IS 95. Combined AMPS CDMA systems are described in TIA EIA Standard IS 98. Other communications systems are described in the IMT 2000 UM or International Mobile Telecommunications System 2000 Universal Mobile Telecommunications System standards covering what are referred to as wideband CDMA W CDMA CDMA2000 such as CDMA2000 1xEV DO standards for example or TD SCDMA.

In W CDMA wireless communication systems user equipments UEs receive signals from fixed position Node Bs also referred to as cell sites or cells that support communication links or service within particular geographic regions adjacent to or surrounding the base stations. Node Bs provide entry points to an access network AN radio access network RAN which is generally a packet data network using standard Internet Engineering Task Force IETF based protocols that support methods for differentiating traffic based on Quality of Service QoS requirements. Therefore the Node Bs generally interact with UEs through an over the air interface and with the RAN through Internet Protocol IP network data packets.

In wireless telecommunication systems Push to talk PTT capabilities are becoming popular with service sectors and consumers. PTT can support a dispatch voice service that operates over standard commercial wireless infrastructures such as W CDMA CDMA FDMA TDMA GSM etc. In a dispatch model communication between endpoints e.g. UEs occurs within virtual groups wherein the voice of one talker is transmitted to one or more listeners. A single instance of this type of communication is commonly referred to as a dispatch call or simply a PTT call. A PTT call is an instantiation of a group which defines the characteristics of a call. A group in essence is defined by a member list and associated information such as group name or group identification.

In an embodiment a user of a wireless communications device is notified when operating in a serving area of a FEMTO access point AP . In another embodiment the wireless communications device can notify an application server that the wireless communications device is served by the FEMTO AP. In another embodiment the application server can set a service level for a communication session based on the FEMTO AP serving status of participating wireless communications devices. In another embodiment the FEMTO AP can determine to use a downlink control or signaling channel to transmit data to the wireless communications device. In another embodiment the wireless communications device can determine to determine to use a reverse link shared channel based on recognition that the device is being served by the FEMTO AP. In another embodiment based on its serving FEMTO AP status the wireless communications device can i modify its participation level in the communication session and or ii selectively track usage. In another embodiment the wireless communications device or FEMTO AP can measure performance parameters of the communication session to determine whether to trigger a handoff of the wireless communications device to a different AP.

Aspects of the invention are disclosed in the following description and related drawings directed to specific embodiments of the invention. Alternate embodiments may be devised without departing from the scope of the invention. Additionally well known elements of the invention will not be described in detail or will be omitted so as not to obscure the relevant details of the invention.

The words exemplary and or example are used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any embodiment described herein as exemplary and or example is not necessarily to be construed as preferred or advantageous over other embodiments. Likewise the term embodiments of the invention does not require that all embodiments of the invention include the discussed feature advantage or mode of operation.

Further many embodiments are described in terms of sequences of actions to be performed by for example elements of a computing device. It will be recognized that various actions described herein can be performed by specific circuits e.g. application specific integrated circuits ASICs by program instructions being executed by one or more processors or by a combination of both. Additionally these sequence of actions described herein can be considered to be embodied entirely within any form of computer readable storage medium having stored therein a corresponding set of computer instructions that upon execution would cause an associated processor to perform the functionality described herein. Thus the various aspects of the invention may be embodied in a number of different forms all of which have been contemplated to be within the scope of the claimed subject matter. In addition for each of the embodiments described herein the corresponding form of any such embodiments may be described herein as for example logic configured to perform the described action.

A High Data Rate HDR subscriber station referred to herein as a user equipment UE may be mobile or stationary and may communicate with one or more access points APs which may be referred to as Node Bs. A UE transmits and receives data packets through one or more of the Node Bs to a Radio Network Controller RNC . The Node Bs and RNC are parts of a network called a radio access network RAN . A radio access network can transport voice and data packets between multiple access terminals.

The radio access network may be further connected to additional networks outside the radio access network such core network including specific carrier related servers and devices and connectivity to other networks such as a corporate intranet the Internet public switched telephone network PSTN a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN a Gateway GPRS Support Node GGSN and may transport voice and data packets between each UE and such networks. A UE that has established an active traffic channel connection with one or more Node Bs may be referred to as an active UE and can be referred to as being in a traffic state. A UE that is in the process of establishing an active traffic channel TCH connection with one or more Node Bs can be referred to as being in a connection setup state. A UE may be any data device that communicates through a wireless channel or through a wired channel.

A UE may further be any of a number of types of devices including but not limited to PC card compact flash device external or internal modem or wireless or wireline phone. The communication link through which the UE sends signals to the Node B s is called an uplink channel e.g. a reverse traffic channel a control channel an access channel etc. . The communication link through which Node B s send signals to a UE is called a downlink channel e.g. a paging channel a control channel a broadcast channel a forward traffic channel etc. . As used herein the term traffic channel TCH can refer to either an uplink reverse or downlink forward traffic channel.

Referring back to the components of the wireless communications system and interrelation of the elements of the exemplary embodiments of the invention are not limited to the configuration illustrated. System is merely exemplary and can include any system that allows remote UEs such as wireless client computing devices to communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components connected via the air interface and RAN including without limitation core network the Internet PSTN SGSN GGSN and or other remote servers.

The RAN controls messages typically sent as data packets sent to a RNC . The RNC is responsible for signaling establishing and tearing down bearer channels i.e. data channels between a Serving General Packet Radio Services GPRS Support Node SGSN and the UEs . If link layer encryption is enabled the RNC also encrypts the content before forwarding it over the air interface . The function of the RNC is well known in the art and will not be discussed further for the sake of brevity. The core network may communicate with the RNC by a network the Internet and or a public switched telephone network PSTN . Alternatively the RNC may connect directly to the Internet or external network. Typically the network or Internet connection between the core network and the RNC transfers data and the PSTN transfers voice information. The RNC can be connected to multiple Node Bs . In a similar manner to the core network the RNC is typically connected to the Node Bs by a network the Internet and or PSTN for data transfer and or voice information. The Node Bs can broadcast data messages wirelessly to the UEs such as cellular telephone . The Node Bs RNC and other components may form the RAN as is known in the art. However alternate configurations may also be used and the invention is not limited to the configuration illustrated. For example in another embodiment the functionality of the RNC and one or more of the Node Bs may be collapsed into a single hybrid module having the functionality of both the RNC and the Node B s .

Generally GPRS is a protocol used by Global System for Mobile communications GSM phones for transmitting Internet Protocol IP packets. The GPRS Core Network e.g. the GGSN and one or more SGSNs is the centralized part of the GPRS system and also provides support for W CDMA based 3G networks. The GPRS core network is an integrated part of the GSM core network provides mobility management session management and transport for IP packet services in GSM and W CDMA networks.

The GPRS Tunneling Protocol GTP is the defining IP protocol of the GPRS core network. The GTP is the protocol which allows end users e.g. access terminals of a GSM or W CDMA network to move from place to place while continuing to connect to the internet as if from one location at the GGSN . This is achieved transferring the subscriber s data from the subscriber s current SSGN to the GGSN which is handling the subscriber s session.

Three forms of GTP are used by the GPRS core network namely i GTP U ii GTP C and iii GTP GTP Prime . GTP U is used for transfer of user data in separated tunnels for each packet data protocol PDP context. GTP C is used for control signaling e.g. setup and deletion of PDP contexts verification of GSN reach ability updates or modifications such as when a subscriber moves from one SGSN to another etc. . GTP is used for transfer of charging data from GSNs to a charging function.

Referring to the GGSN acts as an interface between the GPRS backbone network not shown and the external packet data network . The GGSN extracts the packet data with associated packet data protocol PDP format e.g. IP or PPP from the GPRS packets coming from the SGSN and sends the packets out on a corresponding packet data network. In the other direction the incoming data packets are directed by the GGSN to the SGSN which manages and controls the Radio Access Bearer RAB of the destination UE served by the RAN . Thereby the GGSN stores the current SGSN address of the target UE and his her profile in its location register e.g. within a PDP context . The GGSN is responsible for IP address assignment and is the default router for the connected UE. The GGSN also performs authentication and charging functions.

The SGSN is representative of one of many SGSNs within the core network in an example. Each SGSN is responsible for the delivery of data packets from and to the UEs within an associated geographical service area. The tasks of the SGSN includes packet routing and transfer mobility management e.g. attach detach and location management logical link management and authentication and charging functions. The location register of the SGSN stores location information e.g. current cell current VLR and user profiles e.g. IMSI PDP address es used in the packet data network of all GPRS users registered with the SGSN for example within one or more PDP contexts for each user or UE. Thus SGSNs are responsible for i de tunneling downlink GTP packets from the GGSN ii uplink tunnel IP packets toward the GGSN iii carrying out mobility management as UEs move between SGSN service areas and iv billing mobile subscribers. As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art aside from i iv SGSNs configured for GSM EDGE networks have slightly different functionality as compared to SGSNs configured for W CDMA networks.

The RAN e.g. or UTRAN in Universal Mobile Telecommunications System UMTS system architecture communicates with the SGSN via a Iu interface with a transmission protocol such as Frame Relay or IP. The SGSN communicates with the GGSN via a Gn interface which is an IP based interface between SGSN and other SGSNs not shown and internal GGSNs and uses the GTP protocol defined above e.g. GTP U GTP C GTP etc. . While not shown in the Gn interface is also used by the Domain Name System DNS . The GGSN is connected to a Public Data Network PDN not shown and in turn to the Internet via a Gi interface with IP protocols either directly or through a Wireless Application Protocol WAP gateway.

The PDP context is a data structure present on both the SGSN and the GGSN which contains a particular UE s communication session information when the UE has an active GPRS session. When a UE wishes to initiate a GPRS communication session the UE must first attach to the SGSN and then activate a PDP context with the GGSN . This allocates a PDP context data structure in the SGSN that the subscriber is currently visiting and the GGSN serving the UE s access point.

Referring to UEs and . . . N are illustrated as wireless cell phones UE is illustrated as a wireless tablet PC and UE is illustrated as a wired desktop station. However in other embodiments it will be appreciated that the wireless communication system can connect to any type of UE and the examples illustrated in are not intended to limit the types of UEs that may be implemented within the system. Also while the AAA server the provisioning server the IMS SIP registration server and the application server are each illustrated as structurally separate servers one or more of these servers may be consolidated in at least one embodiment of the invention.

Further referring to the application server is illustrated as including a plurality of media control complexes MCCs . . . N B and a plurality of regional dispatchers . . . N A. Collectively the regional dispatchers A and MCCs B are included within the application server which in at least one embodiment can correspond to a distributed network of servers that collectively functions to arbitrate communication sessions e.g. half duplex group communication sessions via IP unicasting and or IP multicasting protocols within the wireless communication system . For example because the communication sessions arbitrated by the application server can theoretically take place between UEs located anywhere within the system multiple regional dispatchers A and MCCs are distributed to reduce latency for the arbitrated communication sessions e.g. so that a MCC in North America is not relaying media back and forth between session participants located in China . Thus when reference is made to the application server it will be appreciated that the associated functionality can be enforced by one or more of the regional dispatchers A and or one or more of the MCCs B. The regional dispatchers A are generally responsible for any functionality related to establishing a communication session e.g. handling signaling messages between the UEs scheduling and or sending announce messages etc. whereas the MCCs B are responsible for hosting the communication session for the duration of the call instance including conducting an in call signaling and an actual exchange of media during an arbitrated communication session.

Referring to FEMTO APs B correspond to FEMTO cells. The FEMTO APs B operate in accordance with the same communications protocol e.g. 1x EV DO W CDMA as the macro APs or Node Bs A. In other words the FEMTO APs B transmit the same type of pilot signal as the macro APs or Node Bs A are configured to conform with the same signaling messages as the macro APs or Node Bs A and so on.

However the FEMTO APs support functionality of Node Bs and also a part of the RNC . The remaining functionality of RNC for connecting to the Carrier is supported by the FEMTO gateway . The FEMTO APs B are connected to the FEMTO gateway via the internet instead of the more typical wired cellular backhaul infrastructure. Also the FEMTO APs B cover a smaller serving area as compared to the macro APs or Node Bs A. For example the Node Bs A can correspond to cell towers that are spread a few miles apart and are collectively configured to provide seamless coverage throughout a particular geographic area. The FEMTO APs B on the other hand are more localized in nature e.g. covering a radius of approximately 50 meters 100 meters 400 meters etc. as opposed to providing many miles of coverage and are configured to provide a relatively high amount of bandwidth in a smaller or more focused geographic area. For example FEMTO APs B can correspond to indoor base stations in an example that provide a high level of performance within a particular building e.g. a residential house an office building etc. . It will further be appreciated that due to the relative size of their respective serving areas the UEs served by the FEMTO APs B will generally be closer to their serving Node B than the UEs served by one of the macro APs or Node Bs A.

In an example the FEMTO APs B can be implemented as wireless routers with high speed wired connections to the Internet e.g. such as a DSL connection cable internet connection an optical internet connection such as FiOS etc. . As mentioned above however instead of implementing a wireless communications protocol that is common for Internet connected WiFi routers e.g. such as 802.11a 802.11b etc. the FEMTO APs B conform to the same wireless communications protocol e.g. a cellular communications protocol such as 1x EV DO UMTS etc. as the macro APs or Node Bs A. Accordingly a UE monitoring pilot signals of Node Bs will generally not be able to differentiate a pilot of a macro AP or Node B A from a pilot of a FEMTO AP.

Also because FEMTO APs B provide service within a relatively limited area a given FEMTO AP B will typically serve fewer UEs than a macro AP or Node B A and will thereby be expected to provide high quality service to its UEs in most cases. For this reason fewer UEs would be expected to contend for resources over the wireless air interface B to FEMTO APs B as opposed to the wireless air interface A to Node Bs A. Accordingly a higher level of bandwidth can normally be achieved over air interface B as compared to air interface A.

However it will also be appreciated that the FEMTO APs B are more susceptible to conditions on the Internet through which FEMTO APs connect to the FEMTO gateway whereas the Node Bs A have a more direct connection to RNC . In other words only cellular subscribers will typically be provided service through Node Bs A to the RNC whereas connections through the Internet are shared with any user that can connect to the Internet and is not limited to cellular subscribers. Thus it will be appreciated that the Node Bs A are typically limited or bottlenecked by the air interface A to their served UEs whereas the FEMTO APs B are typically limited or bottlenecked by their connection to the Internet .

Referring to a UE here a wireless device such as a cellular telephone has a platform that can receive and execute software applications data and or commands transmitted from the RAN that may ultimately come from the core network the Internet and or other remote servers and networks. The platform can include a transceiver operably coupled to an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other processor microprocessor logic circuit or other data processing device. The ASIC or other processor executes the application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs in the memory of the wireless device. The memory can be comprised of read only or random access memory RAM and ROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. The platform also can include a local database that can hold applications not actively used in memory . The local database is typically a flash memory cell but can be any secondary storage device as known in the art such as magnetic media EEPROM optical media tape soft or hard disk or the like. The internal platform components can also be operably coupled to external devices such as antenna display push to talk button and keypad among other components as is known in the art.

Accordingly an embodiment of the invention can include a UE including the ability to perform the functions described herein. As will be appreciated by those skilled in the art the various logic elements can be embodied in discrete elements software modules executed on a processor or any combination of software and hardware to achieve the functionality disclosed herein. For example ASIC memory API and local database may all be used cooperatively to load store and execute the various functions disclosed herein and thus the logic to perform these functions may be distributed over various elements. Alternatively the functionality could be incorporated into one discrete component. Therefore the features of the UE in are to be considered merely illustrative and the invention is not limited to the illustrated features or arrangement.

The wireless communication between the UE or and the RAN can be based on different technologies such as code division multiple access CDMA W CDMA time division multiple access TDMA frequency division multiple access FDMA Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing OFDM the Global System for Mobile Communications GSM or other protocols that may be used in a wireless communications network or a data communications network. For example in W CDMA the data communication is typically between the client device Node B s and the RNC . The RNC can be connected to multiple data networks such as the core network PSTN the Internet a virtual private network a SGSN a GGSN and the like thus allowing the UE or access to a broader communication network. As discussed in the foregoing and known in the art voice transmission and or data can be transmitted to the UEs from the RAN using a variety of networks and configurations. Accordingly the illustrations provided herein are not intended to limit the embodiments of the invention and are merely to aid in the description of aspects of embodiments of the invention.

Referring to the given FEMTO AP serving UE transmits a periodic pilot signal on a downlink channel . The FEMTO AP also transmits the overhead messages containing an indication on whether the serving Node B is a FEMTO AP periodically on a downlink channel . For example the overhead message transmitted in can correspond to a System Information Broadcast message in W CDMA networks or an Access Point Identification message in CDMA2000 networks. In UE measures performance characteristics of the periodic pilot signal e.g. a signal to interference ratio SIR etc. performs cell sector selection and enters a connected state. UE then reports the measured performance characteristics of the periodic pilot signal to UE s serving FEMTO AP . The FEMTO AP receives the pilot signal measurement report and determines that UE is operating in the serving area of the given FEMTO AP and also determines whether a handoff of UE to another Node B is required . For example the pilot signal measurement report can include measurements related to the FEMTO AP s pilot signal and also pilot signals of neighboring APs or Node Bs with the FEMTO AP responsible for transitioning UE to a serving Node B based in part on the pilot signal measurement report and also based in part on the loading on the individual Node Bs and or other criteria . In assume that the FEMTO AP determines not to instruct UE to perform a handoff.

Next assume that blocks through repeat at a given interval and that UE remains served by the FEMTO AP such that no handoff of UE to another Node B is performed. In UE determines whether to initiate a communication session. If UE determines not to initiate a communication session in the process returns to and the iterative process of blocks through continues. Otherwise if UE determines to initiate a communication session in e.g. a user of UE presses a CALL button or PTT button on UE UE receives a page from the FEMTO AP B and determines to answer the page etc. UE obtains call resources in . For example block can correspond to UE obtaining a TCH and or Quality of Service QoS resources.

After obtaining call resources in UE initiates set up of the communication session to be arbitrated by the application server . For example in UE can transmit a call message to the application server e.g. through the FEMTO AP Internet and RNC in response to which the application server sets up the communication session.

Accordingly UE participates in the communication session arbitrated by the application server and sends and or receives media and in call signaling messages with the application server . While not shown in the communication session can also be joined by one or more other UEs. During the communication session the FEMTO AP B periodically determines whether to hand UE off from the FEMTO AP to another FEMTO AP B or a Node B A based in part on subsequent pilot signal measurement reports not shown loading conditions on the FEMTO AP or neighboring APs and or other criteria .

As will be appreciated from a review of conventionally when a given UE is idle and hands off from one Node B to another Node B in the wireless communication session the UE receives indication of whether the serving Node B is a FEMTO AP from the broadcasted overhead messages. However the given user of the UE is not notified and remains unaware with regard to whether the given UE is currently served by a FEMTO AP or a macro AP. Accordingly the user of the UE is not necessarily notified of certain features available in a FEMTO AP s coverage area such as lower charging rates higher bandwidth Quality of Service QoS and or other features. Also because charging rates are usually different between FEMTO APs and macro APs and UE can be handed off to from FEMTO APs and or macro APs during a particular communication session it can be difficult for a user of UE to track his her usage for the communication session.

Accordingly is directed to a process of informing a given UE UE of whether UE is in a service area of a FEMTO AP in accordance with an embodiment of the invention. Referring to generally correspond to through of respectively and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity.

In UE receives the overhead message and determines that it is connected to a FEMTO AP. Next UE provides a notification to its user indicating that UE is currently operating in a serving area of a FEMTO AP . For example the notification of can correspond to an audio alert a graphic alert a vibration and or any other mechanism by which a user of UE can be informed of the status of UE s current cell. As will be appreciated the notification of can occur while UE is still idle i.e. while a user of UE is not engaged in a communication session through UE .

As will be appreciated a user of UE can modify his her behavior based on the notification that UE is operating in a serving area of a FEMTO AP. For example the user of UE may be informed that FEMTO APs have higher bandwidth and or QoS characteristics and can determine to initiate a resource intensive communication session e.g. a video conference the download or upload of a large data file etc. that the user would otherwise not engage in based on the FEMTO AP notification from . In another example the user of UE may be informed that FEMTO APs have lower charging rates e.g. free or cheaper calls calls that do not count against a given number of minutes in the user s calling plan etc. such that the user of UE will engage in communication sessions that the user would otherwise not enter into due to costs.

At some later point in time assume that the FEMTO AP B determines that UE requires a handoff from its current serving FEMTO AP to another Node B e.g. such as a macro AP in this example although theoretically UE could be handed off from its current serving FEMTO AP to another FEMTO AP . Accordingly the FEMTO AP B facilitates the handoff of UE from its current serving FEMTO AP to a new Node B e.g. a macro AP in this example by sending messages to i UE and ii the serving RNC .

Accordingly UE hands off from the FEMTO AP to the macro AP in . Next after the handoff the macro AP now serving UE does not transmit the configured overhead messages transmitted in by the FEMTO AP B in other words the macro AP does not identify itself as a FEMTO AP . The macro AP transmits the remaining overhead messages . Accordingly UE does not receive the FEMTO AP specific overhead message from the macro AP and determines that UE is no longer connected to a FEMTO AP . At this point UE can provide a notification to its user indicating that UE is no longer operating in a serving area of a FEMTO AP . For example the notification of can correspond to an audio alert a graphic alert a vibration and or any other mechanism by which a user of UE can be informed of the non FEMTO status of UE s current cell. As will be appreciated the notification of can occur while UE is still idle i.e. while a user of UE is not engaged in a communication session through UE .

While is described as if UE navigates between serving areas of the FEMTO AP and macro AP while remaining in idle mode it will be appreciated that UE could at any point of the process of become engaged in an active communication session. In this case UE will still be informed with regard to whether UE is operating in a FEMTO AP or macro AP at least through the overhead messages transmitted by the respective APs or Node Bs. In the event that UE actively participates in a communication session UE and or a user thereof can use its knowledge related to whether it is served by a FEMTO AP or macro AP to modify one or more aspects of the communication session.

Accordingly illustrates an example of setting up a server arbitrated communication session between UEs and when UEs and are each being served by a FEMTO AP in accordance with an embodiment of the invention and illustrates an example of UE participating in a server arbitrated communication session that is modified in part based on UE s handoffs between a FEMTO AP and macro AP in accordance with an embodiment of the invention.

Referring to assume that UE determines itself to be connected to or in a serving area of a FEMTO AP A. For example the determination of A can correspond to the decoding of an overhead message transmitted by the FEMTO AP as in of . While still connected to the FEMTO AP UE determines whether to set up a communication session to be arbitrated by the application server A. If UE determines not to initiate a communication session in A UE remains in an idle state. Otherwise if UE determines to initiate a communication session in A e.g. a user of UE presses a CALL button or PTT button on UE UE receives a page or call announcement from the RAN and determines to answer the page or answer the call announcement etc. UE obtains call resources in A if necessary.

In an embodiment of the invention the step of obtaining call resources such as a TCH upon which UE can transmit in A is optional because the air interface B used by FEMTO APs is generally shorter range and thereby has fewer UEs contending for the same wireless resources as compared to a macro AP. Thus if UE knows that it is operating in a FEMTO AP before attempting to set up a communication session UE can simply use a reverse link shared access channel as if this channel were its own TCH in an example e.g. at least for initial set up messaging of a communication session . In other words because the reverse link shared access channel is expected to be shared by fewer UEs by virtue of UE s knowledge of operating in a FEMTO cell UE can use the reverse link shared access channel by default during communication session set up e.g. to send a call message to the application server before a TCH is set up . For example UE can transmit the communication session set up messages as mobile originated MO data over signaling DoS messages on reverse link access channel in 1xEV DO networks or transmit the communication session set up messages on the random access channel RACH in WCDMA networks. Thus the notification or determination of UE s presence in a FEMTO cell can be used to trigger transmission of communication setup messages on common channels at least during communication set up which can result in quick set up of the communication session as compared to waiting for a TCH to be allocated to UE before sending a call message to the application server in an example.

Accordingly in A UE sets up its communication session with the application server e.g. by sending a call request message to the application server in A . In the embodiment of one or more of the reverse link messages sent by UE to the application server during the set up of the communication session in A e.g. either on the reverse link shared access channel upon an obtained TCH etc. can be configured to convey to the application server that UE is operating in a FEMTO cell. For example the UE can set a field or bit in the call message to indicate its presence in FEMTO AP coverage.

Upon receiving the call message in A from UE instructing the application server to set up a communication session with UE the application server forwards call announce message to the FEMTO AP B serving UE A. The FEMTO AP B serving UE then transmits communication set up messages on the forward link or downlink control channel to UE A. In an example the messages transmitted from the FEMTO AP B to UE in A can correspond to mobile terminated MT DoS messages in EV DO such that the FEMTO AP B need not wait for a TCH to be set up with UE before transmitting the call announce message in an example. Alternatively in W CDMA the message s in A can be transmitted on a forward access channel FACH .

In A UE receives the call announce message and also determines that UE is in a FEMTO AP coverage area. In an example the determination of A can occur prior to receipt of the announce message. Next UE optionally acquires call resources A. Similar to A A is optional because a shared channel can be used in a FEMTO AP without causing interference issues in an example. UE then transmits a call accept message to the application server A. UE can also convey its FEMTO AP coverage status to the application server via the call accept message in A in an example.

Next when the application server sets up the communication session the application server can configure the communication session with augmented services based at least in part on the recognition that UEs and are operating in a FEMTO cell A.

For example in A if the communication session corresponds to an end to end call and application server determines that UE and UE to the communication session are both operating in FEMTO cells then the application server may augment parameters of the session from default session parameters. For example in this case the application server could increase the resolution of the audio for the communication session at both ends of the session. For example in A if the communication session corresponds to an end to end concurrent voice and media call if the participants are in FEMTO AP coverage in home multi player gaming scenario then the application server could discover this capability during call setup and augment the capabilities for the call i.e. transition from low resolution to a high resolution video file transfer . Similarly when handoffs occur from the FEMTO AP to the Macro AP or from a Macro AP to FEMTO AP during a communication session call capabilities can be modified suitably as described in . When transitions occur between FEMTO AP and Macro AP a tone could be played on the handset in addition to a UI notification change to inform the user of such handoff.

While is related to set up of a server arbitrated communication session in other embodiments an active communication session can be modified in accordance with whether a given UE UE has handed off to or away from a FEMTO AP as will be described with respect to .

Referring to assume that UE is located in a given macro cell i.e. UE is being served by a given macro AP and is actively participating in a communication session e.g. with UE as in although UE is not shown in this example for convenience of explanation B. Next assume that the RNC serving UE determines to handoff UE from UE s current serving macro AP to a FEMTO AP and thereby orders the handoff B. In an example the handoff order of B can be based upon UE receiving a FEMTO AP pilot signal which causes UE to prompt a user thereof to provide an indication with regard to whether to transition from the macro AP to the FEMTO AP. If the user instructs UE to perform the handoff the handoff of B can then be triggered by UE as shown in when modified for a macro to FEMTO AP transition . As such UE hands off from the macro AP to the FEMTO AP in B. At this point UE continues its communication session that was supported by the macro AP on the FEMTO AP B.

At some point after the handoff UE determines that its new serving Node B corresponds to a FEMTO AP B. For example the determination of B can be in response to receiving an overhead message from the FEMTO AP as discussed above with respect to through of . Upon determining that UE serving Node B is now a FEMTO AP in B UE sends a communication session related signaling message to the application server to notify the application server of its presence in FEMTO AP coverage and to request that the application server modify its participation in the communication session B.

As will be appreciated the modification of B can refer to augmenting the capabilities of the existing communication session. For example UE can request to activate features available for the communication session that are cheaper in FEMTO cells as compared to macro cells such as transitioning the communication session from an audio only session to a video conference that includes both audio and video because the extra bandwidth used for the video feed becomes more affordable or available. As will be appreciated the modification involves the UE sending a request to the application server and the application server thereafter enforcing the modification based on the capabilities of other participants in the communication session not shown . UE also notifies its user that it is now operating within a FEMTO cell in B similar to of e.g. so that the user of UE can modify his her behavior to take advantage of FEMTO cell features .

At some later point in time assume that the FEMTO AP serving UE determines to handoff UE from UE s current serving FEMTO AP to a macro AP and thereby orders the handoff B. In an example the handoff order of B can be based upon UE receiving a macro AP pilot signal which causes UE to prompt a user thereof to provide an indication with regard to whether to transition from the FEMTO AP to the macro AP. If the user instructs UE to perform the handoff the handoff of B can then be triggered by UE as shown in . As such UE hands off from the FEMTO AP to the macro AP in B. At this point UE continues its communication session on the macro AP B. At some point after the handoff UE determines that its new serving Node B corresponds to a macro AP B. For example the determination of B can be in response to not receiving a FEMTO AP specific overhead message from the macro AP as discussed above with respect to through of . Alternatively whenever UE hands off from a FEMTO cell UE can be configured to assume that its target AP is non FEMTO and in the case that the target AP actually is a FEMTO AP UE can resume the modified or enhanced FEMTO session upon making the FEMTO confirmation. In this example when transitioning from a FEMTO AP to a macro AP the user of UE would not be charged at the higher rate between the handoff time and the time at which UE realizes it is no longer operating in a FEMTO AP.

Upon determining that UE s serving AP is no longer a FEMTO AP in B UE sends a communication session related signaling message to the application server to notify the application server of its presence in Macro AP coverage and request to modify its participation in the communication session B. For example the modification of B can correspond to un doing or reversing the modification that was enacted in B upon entry into the FEMTO cell. UE also notifies its user that it is no longer operating within a FEMTO cell in B similar to of e.g. so that the user of UE can modify his her behavior .

As will be appreciated if a given UE participates in a communication session during which the given UE hands off between FEMTO APs and macro APs the manner in which the session is billed can be different when the UE is served by a FEMTO AP versus the portions when the UE is served by a macro AP. Accordingly it can be difficult for a user of the given UE to track his her usage charges during the actual sessions. In other words while the user of the given UE would likely be able to determine its total minutes used for the call the given UE would not know how many minutes were used in serving areas of the FEMTO APs and how many minutes were used in serving areas of the macro APs such that the actual cost to the user would be difficult to determine. Conventionally the user of the given UE would be required to query either a billing server or usage tracking server in order to determine its usage for the communication session and this would normally only be an option after the session had already ended. Accordingly an embodiment of the invention is directed to a more dynamic usage tracking process for UEs participating in sessions that are supported at different times by both FEMTO APs and macro APs.

Referring to a given UE UE sets up and then participates in a server arbitrated communication session over a FEMTO AP and or a macro AP . For example UE can initially set up the communication session in a FEMTO AP and then be handed off to a macro AP or alternatively can initially set up the communication session in a macro AP and then be handed off to a FEMTO AP. During the communication session UE tracks usage information of UE s participation in the communication session over the FEMTO APs and or macro APs . In particular UE tracks how long and or what services were used when in FEMTO cells during the communication session and UE also tracks how long and or what services were used when in macro cells during the communication session. By contrast conventional usage tracking mechanisms at UE would normally track total usage for the communication session but would not selectively categorize the usage based on whether UE was in a FEMTO cell or macro cell when the usage occurred.

In UE determines whether to display the tracked usage information to a user of UE . In an example the determination of can occur during the actual communication session such that UE can display dynamic or in call usage information to its user. In another example the determination of can occur upon termination of the communication session such that UE displays the total usage information for the communication session after the communication session terminates. In yet another example the determination of can be event based such that UE displays the tracked usage information in response to a user request irrespective of whether the communication session is on going or over. Accordingly if UE determines not to display the tracked usage information to its user the process returns to and UE either continues its current communication session or waits for its user to request set up of another communication session. Otherwise if UE determines to display the tracked usage information to its user the tracked usage information is displayed in . In an example the usage tracking described above in can be performed by a multimedia client application running on UE .

As discussed above performance of communication sessions conducted over FEMTO APs can generally expected to be different in some respects as compared to communication sessions conducted over macro APs. For example FEMTO APs will generally have superior bandwidth and interference characteristics over its air interface B as compared to the air interface A of macro APs because in most cases fewer UEs will be exchanging wireless signals with a FEMTO AP as compared to a macro AP and UEs in FEMTO cells will be closer to their serving APs. However once a reverse link message is transferred to a macro AP the macro AP has a relatively direct wired backhaul connection to the RNC whereas reverse link messages from a FEMTO AP are required to navigate through the Internet where performance can be unpredictable. Similarly downlink messages from the RNC can be relayed to a macro AP in a direct manner whereas downlink messages from FEMTO gateway are sent to FEMTO APs through the unpredictable Internet .

Conventional decision logic related to when handoffs of a UE from one Node B to another Node B should be performed has generally attempted to optimize the wireless or air interface link between UEs and their respective APs or Node Bs. For example an important criteria related to handoffs of UEs between Node Bs is how strong a pilot signal is when received at the UE. However if a FEMTO AP s connection to the Internet is slow an excellent wireless link to the FEMTO AP from a UE will be insufficient to obtain good performance. Accordingly embodiments of the invention described below with respect to are directed to evaluating application layer performance parameters when making handoff decisions as opposed to relying upon the quality of the wireless physical link between the UE and its serving AP.

Referring to correspond to A through A of and as such will not be described further for the sake of brevity. Accordingly after A assume that UE is participating in the communication session and is being served by a FEMTO AP.

Next UE measures one or more application layer performance parameters for the communication session supported by the FEMTO AP A. For example the one or more application layer performance parameters can include i an error rate measurement e.g. a packet error rate PER a message error rate a media error rate MER etc. associated with the communication session e.g. based on a success rate of audio frames if the communication session is an audio session based on a success rate of video and or audio frames if the communication session is a video conference ii an outage duration OD of the communication session e.g. a period of downlink inactivity due to successive media errors on the communication session iii a rate at which the first system is currently charging a user of UE for usage related to the communication session iv the UE s status as floor holder or listener if the communication corresponds to a half duplex PTT session v a priority of the user of UE vi delay jitter and or vii any combination thereof.

In a further example with respect to A of while participating in a communication session UE can measure the application performance using Packet Error Rate and Delay Jitter metrics computed from the application data received at UE from the FEMTO AP. In another example UE can be configured to send receive Real time Control Protocol RTCP reports for Real time Transport Protocol RTP media and obtain the Packet Error Rate and Latency performance feedback from a receiver or target of the communication session through these reports. The receiver configured to transmit RTCP reports can be an application server which arbitrates the communication session between the originator and target devices or can be the target wireless communication session device itself. As these reports are based on the end to end performance and involve multiple links in between the performance estimate may not directly reflect the performance of the DSL link or the link of UE s serving FEMTO AP to the FEMTO gateway . In order to obtain a close estimate of the performance of the DSL link between UE and FEMTO gateway in another example the GGSN can act as a RTCP proxy agent and estimate the performance of the link and send RTCP reports to UE in addition to the RTCP reports sent by the application server or the target wireless device. The GGSN can read the IP packets received from the UE to identify that the packets contain RTP data and include the estimated performance of the link in the standard RTCP report format which can be recognized by the RTP application source on UE. Typically the link between GGSN and FEMTO gateway is over provisioned and does not have much impact to the performance. Also assuming that FEMTO AP typically has good RF coverage UE can then use these estimates received from GGSN as an indication of the perceived application performance on the DSL link.

After measuring the one or more application layer performance parameters in A UE determines whether its application layer performance is sufficient A. For example if the MER for the session is determined to be very low UE may determine that the application layer performance of the communication session is insufficient even if UE s wireless physical layer connection to its serving FEMTO AP is strong. In another example if delay jitter for the session is higher than a threshold UE may determine that the application layer performance of the communication session is insufficient. If UE determines the application layer performance for the communication session to be sufficient in A the process returns to A and UE continues its communication session over the FEMTO AP.

As will be appreciated users may be charged at a subsidized rate while using services in FEMTO AP and user may prefer to stay in FEMTO AP coverage even when application performance is impacted due to DSL link congestion. So UE and or the FEMTO AP can be configured to consider User Preference as a factor in determining whether application performance related handoff from FEMTO AP to Macro AP should be performed irrespective of the measured application layer performance parameters. In other words the thresholds in A can be established such that the FEMTO AP s performance must be considerably worse than the macro AP s expected performance for a FEMTO to macro handoff to occur.

For example if User Preference is to perform handoffs when a desired level of application layer performance is not met UE can measure the application layer performance parameters e.g. Packet Error Rate Delay Jitter and Latency metrics and can compare these metrics with the desired application performance thresholds as shown in A. If UE observes that at least one of the application performance metrics is above the defined threshold limits then UE can request the handoff procedures.

To avoid a Ping Pong effect e.g. to reduce unnecessary handoffs from the FEMTO AP to the macro AP UE can maintain a timer and use a timer based hysteresis on estimated application performance metrics to decide whether a handoff is necessary. In this example the hysteresis timer value can be chosen so as to avoid unnecessary handoffs and at the same time reduce the duration for which application performance is impacted.

Returning to A of if UE determines that the application layer performance for the communication session is not sufficient UE configures a fake pilot signal strength measurement report that is set to indicate an artificially low value for the measured strength of the FEMTO AP s pilot signal at UE A. In other words illustrates an example whereby the FEMTO AP is configured to make handoff decisions for its UEs based on pilot signal strength measurement reports as is known in the art. Accordingly by manipulating the pilot signal strength measurement report at UE in UE can trigger a handoff responsive to application layer conditions even where its physical layer link to the serving FEMTO AP is strong without necessarily modifying the operation of the FEMTO AP B.

In A UE sends the configured pilot signal strength measurement report to the serving FEMTO AP and the FEMTO AP orders UE to be handed off from the FEMTO AP to a macro AP A. As will be appreciated block A assumes that another macro AP is available for handling UE s communication session. Responsive to the handoff order of the FEMTO AP in A UE hands off from the FEMTO AP to the macro AP A.

Referring to instead of configuring a pilot signal strength measurement report with a false indication of the FEMTO AP s pilot signal strength as received at UE UE sends a request to the serving FEMTO AP for the FEMTO AP to facilitate a handoff of UE B. In an example the request of B can correspond to a proprietary message e.g. a StorageBlob message that is not defined by a standard in which case the FEMTO AP is assumed to be configured to interpret the request of B as a handoff request. The FEMTO AP receives the handoff request from UE and performs the handoff procedures to move UE from the FEMTO AP to Macro AP B.

Accordingly upon receiving the handoff request message from B the FEMTO AP orders UE to be handed off from the FEMTO AP to a macro AP B. In B the FEMTO AP explicitly orders UE to perform the handoff to the macro AP. As will be appreciated block B assumes that another macro AP is available for handling UE s communication session. Responsive to the handoff order of the FEMTO AP in B UE hands off from the FEMTO AP to the macro AP B.

In the embodiments of UE is responsible for monitoring the application layer performance for the communication session and if necessary facilitating a handoff to another AP by sending a specially configured pilot strength measurement report e.g. or sending a handoff request to serving FEMTO AP to handoff UE e.g. . In other embodiments of the invention which are described below with respect to the application layer performance for UE s communication session can instead be monitored at the FEMTO AP itself which can then facilitate a handoff of UE to another AP based on its own measurements of UE s application layer performance.

Referring to UE sets up a communication session that is arbitrated by the application server over a FEMTO AP C. As noted in other embodiments of the invention UE s connection to the FEMTO AP may be supported by call resources such as a TCH and QoS resources or alternatively may simply occur over a shared channel due to the reduced wireless contention expectation for FEMTO cells.

Next the FEMTO AP serving UE measures one or more network performance parameters associated with UE s communication session C. In an embodiment of the invention the network performance parameter s measured at the FEMTO AP can include network specific parameters associated with UE s communication session such as QoS parameters such as bandwidth on the link between the FEMTO AP FAP and the FEMTO gateway FGW . For example the FEMTO AP may periodically estimate the bandwidth of its link to the FEMTO Gateway e.g. the DSL link between FAP and FGW which can be measured using well known heuristics such as the Packet Pair or CaPProbe algorithm amongst others.

In a further example referring to C of the FEMTO AP may be serving multiple UEs with different application QoS requirements at any given point of time. In order to perform handoffs of the respective UEs from the FEMTO AP to a macro AP the FEMTO AP can measure network performance of each active application flow that is being served. For Example in UMTS networks the FEMTO AP can measure the performance for each active Radio Access Bearer RAB . The FEMTO AP can measure the network performance over the DSL link periodically estimating the bandwidth of the link between FEMTO AP and the FEMTO gateway using well known heuristics such as the Packet Pair or CaPProbe algorithms as discussed above. Assuming that the FEMTO AP has good RF coverage the FEMTO AP can then use these estimates as an indication of network performance for UE and or other UEs being served by the FEMTO AP.

After measuring the one or more network performance parameters e.g. QoS parameters in C the FEMTO AP determines whether the measured network performance is sufficient for UE s communication session C. For example if the measured level of bandwidth of the FEMTO AP s link to the FEMTO gateway is less than a threshold the FEMTO AP can determine the network performance for the communication session to be insufficient.

For example in C the FEMTO AP can compare the measured network performance metrics e.g. Bandwidth Packet Error Rate and or Latency metrics with one or more thresholds for each active application flow of each UE being served by the FEMTO AP. If the FEMTO AP observes that at least one of the network performance metrics fails to satisfy a given relationship to one of the defined threshold limits for a hysteresis timer period then the FEMTO AP can consider that the application flow or the UE associated with the application flow requires a handoff to a macro AP.

If the FEMTO AP determines the network performance for UE s communication session to be sufficient in C the process returns to C and the FEMTO AP continues to support UE s communication session. Otherwise if the FEMTO AP determines that the network performance for UE s communication session is not sufficient in C the process advances to C C and C of substantially correspond to B and B of respectively and will not be described further for the sake of brevity.

Referring to instead of explicitly ordering the handoff of UE in response to the insufficient network performance determination the FEMTO AP reduces the transmission power level of its pilot signal D and then transmits the pilot signal at the reduced transmission power level D. This effectively reduces the serving area covered by the FEMTO AP. As will be appreciated one potential reason for poor network performance as measured at the FEMTO AP is backhaul messages between the FEMTO gateway and the FEMTO AP which can occur when the FEMTO AP is serving a relatively high number of UEs. By reducing the pilot signal transmission power fewer UEs will detect the FEMTO AP which can likewise reduce the traffic between the FEMTO AP and the FEMTO gateway so as to improve the quality of the link. In this case upon determining that network performance is insufficient in C the particular channel quality estimation for UE can be used to determine an amount by which the transmission power level is reduced in D and D e.g. so that UE is dropped but other UEs are not necessarily affected .

Accordingly UE receives the pilot signal that is transmitted at the reduced transmission power level measures a lower pilot signal strength than was previously measured at UE and sends a pilot signal strength measurement report to the FEMTO AP reporting the lower pilot signal strength of the FEMTO AP s pilot signal D. While not shown in it will be appreciated that any other UEs being served by the FEMTO AP will also report a weaker pilot signal strength for the FEMTO AP. In assume that UE is among the UEs reporting a pilot signal strength for the FEMTO AP that is low enough to prompt a handoff of UE to another AP. Accordingly upon receiving the pilot signal strength measurement report from UE the FEMTO AP orders the UE to be handed off from the FEMTO AP to a macro AP D. Thereafter UE is handed off from the FEMTO AP to the macro AP D.

As will be appreciated the FEMTO AP can issue an explicit order for UE to handoff to another AP as in or the FEMTO AP can reduce its RF footprint by reducing its pilot signal transmission power which potentially affects many UEs aside from UE . In an example the FEMTO AP can choose to issue an explicit handoff of UE to another AP if the measured performance degradation appears to be concentrated or focused on the real time traffic application s associated with UE . In another example if multiple UEs served by the FEMTO AP appear to be undergoing performance degradation the cell wide coverage reduction can be implemented as in . For example if the FEMTO AP determines that the DSL link seems to be very congested and the performance of all active application flows is degraded then the FEMTO AP can reduce the transmitted pilot power strength. This drives the UEs to perform handoff by reporting weak pilots and prevents the UEs already accessing the Macro AP from handing off to the FEMTO AP. While not shown in after performance improves when a given number of UEs handoff to the other AP the FEMTO AP can increase the pilot power strength to back to the initial transmission level.

As discussed above FEMTO APs cover smaller serving areas as compared to macro APs Thereby with respect to macro APs when a given UE becomes aware that it is in range of a particular macro AP the given UE knows its approximate location. For example assume a macro AP has a 5 mile serving area radius. When the given UE identifies the macro AP the given UE can determine at a relatively high confidence level that the given UE is positioned within miles of the macro AP s known location. It will be thereby appreciated that while the location of the macro AP is helpful in narrowing down the possible set of locations of the given UE the macro AP s location generally not accurate enough to be used in place of the given UE s actual location for location based services for the given UE that require a more precise location fix in the absence of GPS support on the UE. The smaller serving area associated with FEMTO APs however can permit a given FEMTO AP s location to be used as an assumed position for the given UE for most location based services as will be described below with respect to .

Referring to the UE determines that it is connected to a FEMTO AP . As will be appreciated the determination of can correspond to of of of of . Next the UE determines the location associated with the FEMTO AP based on the received overhead messages from the FEMTO AP containing the FEMTO AP location information. After determining the location of the FEMTO AP the UE sets its location to be substantially equal to the FEMTO AP s location .

After setting its location to the FEMTO AP s location the UE can perform location based services for the given user using the FEMTO AP s location as the location for the given UE . Examples of location based services that are capable of being performed by UEs are described in more detail in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 727 986 entitled REGULATING THE SCOPE OF SERVICE GEOGRAPHICALLY IN WIRELESS NETWORKS filed Mar. 19 2010 which is assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein in its entirety.

As will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art the FEMTO AP s location is relatively close to the locations of the UEs being served by the FEMTO AP and retrieving the FEMTO AP s location can potentially be faster and can consume less resources e.g. in terms of power processing load etc. then performing a location positioning procedure e.g. a GPS positioning procedure etc. of the UE. Accordingly the process of can reduce delays and or resource consumption associated with a conventional determination of a UE being served by a FEMTO AP.

While embodiments of the invention are described above as if transitions to FEMTO cells will be performed by virtue of FEMTO APs having superior performance as compared to macro APs in other embodiments this is not necessarily the case. For example in one embodiment the target communication devices can be on a high speed link via a macro AP that is comparable in performance to a FEMTO AP. In this case the target communication devices can still use the FEMTO AP. Thus the above described embodiments are applicable even where the FEMTO option is not necessarily superior in terms of performance. For example one reason for this may be cost savings associated with FEMTO access e.g. bandwidth is costlier over the macro AP versus the FEMTO AP etc. . In another embodiment FEMTO APs can be used for communication sessions that are not necessarily instantaneous or in real time between active participants. For example FEMTO APs can be used in scenarios where the communication session is related to delayed delivery of media such as a MMS session.

Those of skill in the art will appreciate that information and signals may be represented using any of a variety of different technologies and techniques. For example data instructions commands information signals bits symbols and chips that may be referenced throughout the above description may be represented by voltages currents electromagnetic waves magnetic fields or particles optical fields or particles or any combination thereof.

Further those of skill in the art will appreciate that the various illustrative logical blocks modules circuits and algorithm steps described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented as electronic hardware computer software or combinations of both. To clearly illustrate this interchangeability of hardware and software various illustrative components blocks modules circuits and steps have been described above generally in terms of their functionality. Whether such functionality is implemented as hardware or software depends upon the particular application and design constraints imposed on the overall system. Skilled artisans may implement the described functionality in varying ways for each particular application but such implementation decisions should not be interpreted as causing a departure from the scope of the present invention.

The various illustrative logical blocks modules and circuits described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be implemented or performed with a general purpose processor a digital signal processor DSP an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a field programmable gate array FPGA or other programmable logic device discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. A general purpose processor may be a microprocessor but in the alternative the processor may be any conventional processor controller microcontroller or state machine. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing devices e.g. a combination of a DSP and a microprocessor a plurality of microprocessors one or more microprocessors in conjunction with a DSP core or any other such configuration.

The methods sequences and or algorithms described in connection with the embodiments disclosed herein may be embodied directly in hardware in a software module executed by a processor or in a combination of the two. A software module may reside in RAM memory flash memory ROM memory EPROM memory EEPROM memory registers hard disk a removable disk a CD ROM or any other form of storage medium known in the art. An exemplary storage medium is coupled to the processor such that the processor can read information from and write information to the storage medium. In the alternative the storage medium may be integral to the processor. The processor and the storage medium may reside in an ASIC. The ASIC may reside in a user terminal e.g. access terminal . In the alternative the processor and the storage medium may reside as discrete components in a user terminal.

In one or more exemplary embodiments the functions described may be implemented in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. If implemented in software the functions may be stored on or transmitted over as one or more instructions or code on a computer readable medium. Computer readable media includes both computer storage media and communication media including any medium that facilitates transfer of a computer program from one place to another. A storage media may be any available media that can be accessed by a computer. By way of example and not limitation such computer readable media can comprise RAM ROM EEPROM CD ROM or other optical disk storage magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium that can be used to carry or store desired program code in the form of instructions or data structures and that can be accessed by a computer. Also any connection is properly termed a computer readable medium. For example if the software is transmitted from a website server or other remote source using a coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair digital subscriber line DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave then the coaxial cable fiber optic cable twisted pair DSL or wireless technologies such as infrared radio and microwave are included in the definition of medium. Disk and disc as used herein includes compact disc CD laser disc optical disc digital versatile disc DVD floppy disk and blu ray disc where disks usually reproduce data magnetically while discs reproduce data optically with lasers. Combinations of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments of the invention it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. The functions steps and or actions of the method claims in accordance with the embodiments of the invention described herein need not be performed in any particular order. Furthermore although elements of the invention may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

