---

title: Systems and methods for breathing assistance
abstract: Various embodiments provide for a breathing assistance device comprising right and left flanges and a protuberance. The right and left flanges may comprise an inner surface and an outer surface, and the flanges may be configured to be placed in a user's mouth such that at least a portion of the flanges are in front of teeth of the user. The protuberance may extend from the outside surface of the flanges and may define an air passage that passes through the flanges.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09375344&OS=09375344&RS=09375344
owner: ALL REST TECHNOLOGIES LLP
number: 09375344
owner_city: Palo Alto
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100420
---
The present application claims benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 171 029 filed Apr. 20 2009 and entitled Systems and Methods for Breathing Assistance which is incorporated herein by reference.

The present invention generally relates to breathing assistance. More particularly the invention relates to systems and methods for breathing assistance.

Sleep disorders are increasingly common. Sleep problems may cause more than just sleepiness. A lack of sleep may affect relationships health mood people with sleep apnea are 5 times more likely to suffer from depression and mental acuity. As a result personal and professional relationships may suffer. Further a lack of quality sleep may be related to misjudgments and accidents.

Sleep apnea is a common sleep disorder that can be potentially serious. When a sleeper has sleep apnea their breathing may stop or get very shallow during sleep. Each pause in breathing may typically last 10 to 20 seconds or more and the pauses may occur 20 to 30 times or more an hour. During episodes of apnea the sleeper may wake up to breathe again. As a result sleep is disrupted and the sleeper may suffer from a brief lack of oxygen.

Those with sleep apnea may use a Continuous Positive Airway Pressure CPAP machine. A CPAP machine delivers a stream of compressed air via a hose to a nasal pillow nose mask or full face mask. The airway is split keeping airway open under air pressure so that unobstructed breathing becomes possible. The CPAP machine blows air at a prescribed pressure. The necessary pressure is usually determined by a sleep physician after review of a sleep study that is supervised by a sleep technician in a sleep laboratory.

Unfortunately both the CPAP machine and the sleep study tend to be very expensive. Further CPAP machines are noisy which may interrupt or prevent sleep of the user or other family members. Moreover many users have trouble sleeping with a nasal pillow nose mask or full face mask.

Systems and methods for breathing assistance are discussed. In various embodiments a breathing assistance device comprises right and left flanges and a protuberance. The right and left flanges may comprise an inner surface and an outer surface. Further the flanges may be configured to be placed in a user s mouth wherein at least a portion of the flanges are in front of teeth of the user. The protuberance may extend from the outside surface of the flanges. Further the protuberance may define an air passage that passes through the flanges.

In some embodiments the breathing assistance device may comprise a polymer. The flanges may be canted. In various embodiments a filter that is configured to limit air resistance is within the protuberance. The filter may comprise a varnished material. The breathing assistance device my further comprise a filter ridge within the protuberance wherein the filter ridge is configured to restrain the filter.

In various embodiments when the breathing assistance device is formed a frenulum gap along a y axis is created. The frenulum gap may be configured to allow a user s frenulum to be within the frenulum gap.

The protuberance may extend from the outside surface at an angle. In some embodiments the left and right flanges comprise edges which are configured to contact gums of the user.

An exemplary method comprises forming right and left flanges comprising an inner surface and an outside surface the flanges configured to be placed in a user s mouth wherein at least a portion of the flanges are in front of teeth of the user and forming a protuberance extending from the outside surface of the flanges the protuberance defining an air passage that passes through the flanges.

Another exemplary method comprises selecting a filter for a breathing assistance device comprising right and left flanges comprising an inner surface and an outside surface and a protuberance extending from the outside surface of the flanges the protuberance defining an air passage that passes through the flanges placing the filter in the protuberance of the breathing assistance device and placing a breathing assistance device within a mouth of a user the breathing assistance device configured to assist the user s breathing.

A breathing assistance device may be used to assist a user with breathing problems. In various embodiments the breathing assistance device may be used to relieve sleep apnea. There are at least two different types of sleep apnea including obstructive sleep apnea and central sleep apnea. Obstructive sleep apnea is caused by an obstruction of the airway. For example the soft tissue of the airway may collapse thereby obstructing sleep. Central sleep apnea or Cheyne Stokes is caused by the brain s respiratory control centers being imbalanced during sleep. As a result the body does not react quickly enough during sleep to maintain an even respiratory rate thereby causing the body to cycle between apnea and hyperpnea.

In order to alleviate one or more of these problems a user may place the breathing assistance device in their mouth prior to sleep. The breathing assistance device may hold the teeth of the user open allowing for greater air flow. Further a protuberance of the breathing assistance device may extend past the user s lips allowing air to pass through the breathing assistance device into the user s mouth. The removal of obstacles to air flow in this manner may reduce or eliminate sleep apnea. For example the greater air flow may reduce negative air pressure in the mouth which may help to keep soft tissue in the airway from collapsing. Further the greater air flow may allow the user s body to more easily maintain an acceptable respiratory rate which may reduce or eliminate the cycle between apnea and hyperpnea.

In various embodiments the breathing assistance device may be used similar to a mouth guard. For example the user may place the breathing assistance device in the mouth with the protuberance extending beyond the user s lips. The flanges and may extend along the inside of the user s cheeks and may be at least partially in front of the user s teeth. The inner surface may be facing the user s mouth and the outer surface may be touching or at least partially touching the cheeks and or lips of the user. In some embodiments the breathing assistance device holds the user s jaw forward to increase airflow.

The user can orient the breathing assistance device so that saliva is less likely to flow through the air passage while the user is sleeping on their side. For example the user may slide the breathing assistance device to the upper portion of the mouth.

The flanges and prevent the breathing assistance device from being too loose or accidentally falling out of place. The inside surface of the flanges and may be curved. The curved surface of the flange may be configured to hold the air passage in or around the correct location to assist the user in breathing air through the air passage . In one example the inside surface is concave so that the flanges and do not press on the teeth of the user. In some embodiments the inside surface of the flanges and is flat. The length height and thickness of the flanges and may be configured to keep the breathing assistance device comfortably in place.

The flanges and may be any length and height. In one example the flanges and are similar to flanges found on mouth pieces in scuba equipment. The flanges and may range for example from inch to inch and the height of the flanges may range from inch to 1 of an inch. In some embodiments the flanges and may be thick enough to lightly push against the lips of the user to encourage the user s mouth naturally open and reduce bruxism.

In various embodiments the protuberance and the air passage are located in the center of the breathing assistance device . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the protuberance may be located at any place of the breathing assistance device . In some embodiments the protuberance is flexibly coupled to the breathing assistance device allowing the protuberance to bend in different directions.

The protuberance extends from the flanges and . In various embodiments the protuberance holds the lips of the user open. In one example the protuberance extends through the lips allowing the user s lips to rest along a portion of the protuberance . In another example the protuberance does not extend through the user s lips but rather extends from the flanges and sufficiently so that the user s lips are held open to allow air to pass through the air passage . Although depict the protuberance as oval the protuberance may be any shape. The protuberance may for example be round rectangular or trapezoidal.

Although the protuberance and air passage are depicted as extending directly away from the flange those skilled in the art will appreciate that the protuberance and air passage may be constructed at an angle. For example the protuberance and air passage may be tilted. In one example the protuberance and air passage may be tilted away from the flange and upwards towards the user s nose. The protuberance and air passage may be tilted in any direction. In some embodiments the breathing assistance device is constructed from a material that allows the user to direct the angle of the protuberance and air passage .

The protuberance may be at any length extending from the flanges and . In one example the protuberance extends inch from the flanges and . In another example the protuberance extends 1 inches from the flanges and . The protuberance may extend anywhere from inch to 1 inches from the flanges and . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the protuberance may be any length.

The protuberance defines the air passage . The air passage allows for the passage of air into the mouth of the user. It will be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the air passage may be any shape and comprise a plurality of passages from which air may flow into the user s mouth. In some embodiments the air passage is wide enough to permit increased air flow during an inspiratory gasp response breathing episode. In some embodiments the breathing assistance device may be considered optimized when the air flow capacity of the device is slightly less than or equal to the user s natural breathing capacity.

In some embodiments the protuberance may be coupled to a retainer device that is formed to the shape of the user s upper or lower teeth. Alternatively the protuberance may be coupled to anchors that are cemented to the teeth.

The breathing assistance device may also comprise one or more holes in or next to the protuberance that allow air to flow in and out of the user s mouth. In some embodiments the one or more holes next to the protuberance allow saliva to flow out of the user s mouth.

In some embodiments the protuberance comprises a mesh or perforated material at one end of the air passage . In one example a mesh is located across any air passages in the breathing assistance device . The mesh may allow for air to enter into the air passage but prevents debris e.g. bugs or dust from getting within the air passage .

In various embodiments an air filter may be fitted into the protuberance . The air filter may allow for limited air resistance within the protuberance . In one example a user may breathe air through the air filter within the protuberance . The air resistance through the air filter may be such that a level of warmth humidity and or positive air pressure is maintained within user s mouth while using the breathing assistance device .

The breathing assistance device may comprise any kind of material and be of any hardness. In some embodiments the breathing assistance device comprises a Shore A hardness with a durometer value between 30 OO and 75 D. The breathing assistance device may comprise a polymer such as an elastomer and may be food safe. In one example the breathing assistance device may be a thermo plastic elastomer silicon material foam material or any combination. Examples of elastomers include but are not limited to rubber synthetic polyisoprene bytul rubber polybutadiene styrene butadience rubber nitrile rubber cloroprene rubber ethylene propylene rubber ethylene propylene diene rubber epichlorohydrin rubber polyacrylic rubber silicone rubber fluorosilicone rubber fluoroelastomers viton tecnoflon fluorel alias and Dai El perfluoroelastomers tecnoflon PIR kalrez chemraz and perlast polyether block amides chlorosulfonated polyethylene ethylene vinyl acetate Thermoplastic elastomers e.g. elastron thermoplastic vulcanizates e.g. santoprene TPV thermoplastic polyurethane thermoplastic olefins proteins resilin and elastin and polysulfide rubber.

The breathing assistance device as described in many of the embodiments described here may be made of a soft material that allows the device to flex as the user s mouth moves.

The breathing assistance device may be shaped differently than that depicted in . For example the breathing assistance device may comprise a teeth separator e.g. bite guard extending from the flange and in a direction away from the protuberance . The teeth separator may be a ridge of material that fits between the teeth to keep the teeth apart e.g. the teeth may rest on the teeth separator thereby improving air flow and or reducing bruxism i.e. teeth grinding . The teeth separator may comprise a single piece of material that extends from the left flange across the air passage to the right flange . Alternatively the teeth separator may comprise two pieces or more of material each piece extending along at least a portion of a flange or without being over the air passage . The teeth separator may be of any shape and angled e.g. angled upwards towards the user s upper jaw or angled downwards . The teeth separator may have any thickness. For example the teeth separator may be from inch thick to inch thick. is a left side view of an exemplary breathing assistance device comprising a protuberance extending from an outside surface of the breathing assistance device at an upward angle. The left side view displays a left flange of the exemplary breathing assistance device.

In some embodiments the breathing assistance device optimizes or substantially optimizes esophageal pressure by creating an amount of aerodynamic drag in the protuberance filter assembly. Esophageal pressure is created naturally by the sinuses when a user breathes through their nose. The sinuses create air resistance by roughly 50 . Esophageal air pressure causes the sinuses to release Nitric. Oxide NO . NO causes the lungs to expand thus facilitating respiration. The amount of NO released by the sinuses increases with the amount of esophageal pressure.

An exemplary approach to optimizing calibrating the breathing assistance device for a specific user is to measure esophageal pressure concurrently with general sleep architecture. In some embodiments the optimal or substantially optimal pressure measurement is universal so the breathing assistance device may be calibrated for a specific user based on an esophageal pressure measurement. In some embodiments a filter with one optimal or substantially optimal resistance measurement may work for any user thus obviating the need for calibration.

In some embodiments the breathing assistance device is specifically created by a specialist to fit a specific user. In other embodiments the breathing assistance device may be available over retail. In one example there may be different sizes to fit different people with different needs e.g. one model for children one model for men and another model for women .

In various embodiments the breathing assistance device could improve oxygenation and or help avoid hypoxia. As a result the breathing assistance device may relieve or reduce the discomfort of symptoms related to respiratory diseases and conditions including common cold flu bronchitis allergies drunkenness unconsciousness due to head wounds or unconsciousness such as after surgery or anesthetization neck and spinal injuries that might interfere with proper breathing digestive diseases and conditions that may interfere with lung expansion such as candida overgrowth and or gas bloating.

The filter ridge is a ridge in the back of the protuberance . The back of the protuberance is that portion of the protuberance that is closest to the flanges and . The filter ridge extends from the protuberance into the air passage . In various embodiments a filter may be placed within the air passage of the protuberance . The filter ridge may keep the filter in place and prevents the filter from slipping through the back of the protuberance . The filter ridge may keep a gap between the filter and the user s teeth. In some embodiments the gap between the filter and the user s teeth is 1 mm. In various embodiments the gap may be 1 mm to 1 cm. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the gap may be any size.

In some embodiments a user may select a filter to place within the protuberance . The user may have a selection of different filters. Filters may be of different sizes. In one example the size of the appropriate filter may depend on the size of the breathing assistance device . In another example the size of the filter may be based on preference and or needs of the user. A user with healthy lungs may require a filter of sufficient size to allow for the desired properties of the breathing assistance device e.g. temperature humidity and air pressure as discussed herein . A user with weaker lungs may require a smaller filter and or a filter composed of different materials.

The filter may be of any material. In various embodiments the filter may comprise a roll of varnished e.g. with shellac corrugated paper. The varnish may be of any type including resin alkyd drying oil polyurethane lacquer or acrylic. In some embodiments the filter may comprise cloth or mesh. The air filter may be fabricated or manufactured out of any kind of material suitable for creating limited air resistance. In one example the filter comprises small balls of soft paper fiber that are coupled together to form a porous structure. In another example the filter is made out of paper or plastic honeycomb material.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that filter may be made out of many different materials. In one example the filter may be made of thread including but not limited to hemp or cotton. The thread may or may not be coated with a varnish. In another example the filter may be comprised of a fibrous material such as Polyfiber from HBH Pet Products. In some embodiments the filter may be constructed from an extruded material such as plastic or paper pulp coated with a varnish. In other embodiments the filter may be comprised of a metal wool material such as stainless steel wool. The filter may also be constructed of strips of foam rolled into the shape of the protuberance. In some embodiments the filter comprises reticulated foam. Open space could be created between the layers of the foam with spacers to optimize airflow through the filter.

The filter may be disposable after each use or may be constructed in a way that it can be cleaned and reused.

The filter may comprise one or more holes that allow saliva to be forced out by air pressure. The holes of the filter may be of any diameter. For example the holes of the air filter may be as small as 1 mm. If there are multiple holes the sum of the holes may correlate to the user s lung strength as discussed herein.

The filter may be of any thickness. In one example the filter is between inch thick and inch thick. The thickness of the filter may depend upon the user s lung strength. In various embodiments the user may select from a variety of filters of different thicknesses and or materials based on lung strength. The filter may be of any height. In one example the filter is between 5 mm to 20 mm in height. The height of the filter may depend upon the user s lung strength.

In some embodiments the filter may be comprised of a valve that allows the user to adjust the airflow to a custom prescribed level.

In various embodiments the user may select a filter based on the user s lung strength. For example a user may measure their lung strength with a spirometer. A separate filter and or breathing assistance device may be recommended depending on the measurement of the spirometer. For example a user may measure lung performance between 525 to 550 L Min without a filter. Based on this information the user may consult instructions or be recommended a filter that provides 5 to 10 greater air resistance.

After testing one or more times the user may select and or modify a filter so that the filter has the desired physical characteristics e.g. select a filter with the desired materials and with the desired thickness .

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that in some embodiments the filter ridge is optional and the filter may be coupled to the front or back of the protuberance .

In various embodiments the filter is made of the same material as the breathing assistance device . In one example the filter is an insert that fits into the air passage . The insert may have a hole e.g. 15 32 diameter in the middle of the insert. The insert may create resistance in the airway. In some embodiments a porous filter material can be placed on the inside or outside of the insert to reduce the loss of humidity while breathing.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the filter may be built into the breathing assistance device such that the filter is not removable. Alternately the user retailer or professional may insert the filter into the breathing assistance device .

The frenulum gaps and are gaps at the top and bottom of the breathing assistance device between the left flange and the right flange . A user s frenulum i.e. the frenulum labii superioris inside the upper lip and the frenulum labii inferioris inside the lower lip may fit between the frenulum gaps and respectively. In some embodiments the frenulum gaps and allow for a comfortable fit within a user s mouth. In one example the user s frenulum is able to move between the frenulum gaps and . The frenulum gaps and may be of any shape.

The upper frenulum gap is along y axis above x axis . The lower frenulum gap is along the y axis below x axis . In various embodiments there may be no upper frenulum gap and or no lower frenulum gap

In some embodiments the curvature of the edge of the upper right flange i.e. the upper edge right flange and or the curvature of the edge of the upper left flange i.e. the upper edge left flange may be curved less than the curvature of the edge of the lower right flange i.e. lower edge right flange and or the curvature of the edge of the lower left flange i.e. lower edge left flange . In other embodiments the curvature of the upper edge right flange and or the upper edge left flange may be curved more than the curvature of the edge of the lower edge right flange and or the lower edge left flange . In still other embodiments the curvature of the upper edge right flange and or the upper edge left flange may be substantially similar to the curvature of the edge of the lower edge right flange and or the lower edge left flange .

In various embodiments the left flange and the right flange may have a cant e.g. the left flange and the right flange may be angled or flared such that the breathing assistance device fits more comfortably in a user s mouth. In one example the end of the left flange that is opposite the protuberance may be angled to create the cant i.e. the left flange cant . Similarly the end of the right flange that is opposite the protuberance may be angled to create a cant i.e. the right flange cant . In some embodiments the flanges and of the breathing assistance device may be independently adaptable by the user so that the user can create the desired cants. The cants and may allow for the lower jaw to have more latitude to move. The cant may be of any angle. In some embodiments the cants and are above 3 degrees. In various embodiments the cants and have an angel from 1 to 10 degrees. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the degree of angle of cant may not be equal to the angle of cant . In some embodiments one or both of the flanges and do not have a cant.

In some embodiments the upper and lower edges of the breathing assistance device help to keep the user s teeth along the upper and lower jaw open. By keeping the teeth from clenching the breathing assistance device may reduce grinding. In one example the upper edge left flange the upper edge right flange lower edge left flange lower edge right flange may gently press against the user s upper and lower gums the pressure may increase if the user attempts to close their mouth. As a result the mouth and or space between the teeth may be naturally kept slightly open during sleep thereby allowing greater airflow and reduction of negative pressure in the mouth. Further the open airway may keep the uvula of the user from vibrating.

In some embodiments the breathing assistance device is symmetrical about the x axis . In one example the top portion of the right flange above the x axis is similar to the bottom portion of the right flange below the x axis. In other embodiments the top portion of the right flange above the x axis is not similar to the bottom portion of the right flange below the x axis .

In various embodiments the breathing assistance device may be coupled to one or more other devices. In one example the protuberance may be coupled with a humidifier that moistens air that flows through the air passage . In another example the protuberance may be coupled with a dehumidifier nebulizer and or other device.

Alternately the breathing assistance device may be coupled to a suction device. In some embodiments the protuberance is coupled to a suction device that applies negative pressure to the airway. In one example the nasal passages may be plugged to create suction in the mouth. The negative pressure may increase the amount of air that the user exhales. Improved exhalation improves the extraction of COfrom the lungs and increases oxygen flow into the lungs. Poor breathing can lead to conditions such as metabolic acidosis which can lead to coma or death.

In various embodiments the breathing assistance device is coupled to a device that monitors i.e. a monitoring device the user s breathing cycles and applies positive and negative pressure at the appropriate times to extend breathing cycles. In one example a tube from the monitoring device may be coupled to the protuberance . When the user exhales the monitoring device may apply a negative pressure to assist the user in exhalation. When the user inhales the monitoring device may apply a positive pressure to assist the user in inhalation. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that in some embodiments the monitoring device only monitors the breathing assistance device and does not apply either negative or positive pressure. In some embodiments the monitoring device only applies negative pressure or only applies positive pressure.

The device may be designed in such a way that the airway dynamically adjusts to optimize how air flows in and out of the user s mouth during breathing cycles. In one example the protuberance may be designed with valves that constrict when the user inhales or exhales. For example the valves may collapse or expand when air flows in a specific direction.

In some embodiments the breathing assistance device is coupled to a monitor device that is configured to detect when the user s blood oxygenation level drops below a configured level. When the monitor device detects a low oxygen event a stimulus may be delivered to awaken the user. For example the stimulus may comprise an audible event such as an alarm buzzer or radio a physical sensation such as a prodding or vibration and or an olfactory sensation such as a pleasant scent an invigorating scent or a chemical stimulant delivered via the nose.

A training device may also be coupled to the breathing assistance device . The training device is configured to monitor the user s breathing and to apply a stimulus to train or encourage the user to breath at regular intervals. In one example the training device may apply negative and positive pressure in intervals designed to adjust the user s breathing during sleep. This embodiment may treat a common symptom of sleep apnea where the user fails to initiate breathing at regular intervals and then takes a deep quick breath i.e. an inspiratory gasp response breath .

The top portion of the left flange above the x axis may be similar to the bottom portion of the left flange below the x axis . In other embodiments the top portion of the left flange above the x axis is not similar to the bottom portion of the left flange below the x axis .

Further the breathing assistance device may be symmetrical across the y axis . For example the left flange may be similar to the right flange . In other embodiments the left flange may be dissimilar to the right flange .

In some embodiments the breathing assistance device may be held on the user s head with a head strap to limit or eliminate shifting during sleep. The strap may also improve the seal between the user s mouth and the device. In another example the head strap is configured to hold all or a portion of the breathing assistance device in place outside of the user s mouth.

In various embodiments the breathing assistance device is configured to hold the user s jaw in a forward position. In one example a teeth separator is configured to push out the user s jaw and additional airflow is allowed to pass e.g. through air holes . In another example the teeth separator is configured to push out the user s jaw and the flange is reduced or eliminated to allow additional air flow into the mouth.

A pillow may also be used to assist in the user s breathing. For example a user may use the breathing assistance device and a pillow that allows for a more comfortable and or efficient positioning of the neck and head. In some embodiments the pillow allows the user to sleep on their side and to tilt their head back. The pillow may also allow the user to rotate their head slightly in a more upwards position.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the user may use the breathing assistance device in conjunction with various sleeping aides including but not limited to sleeping pills and or sedatives. Without the breathing assistance device patients who suffer from sleep apnea may not be able to take sleeping pills because the medication may further disrupt healthy breathing patterns. Since breathing assistance device holds the airway open the breathing assistance device may reduce or eliminate the threat of improper breathing.

A sensor may be added to the breathing assistance device . In various embodiments the sensor detects audio events. In some embodiments the sensor or a device coupled to the sensor may be configured to administer a stimulus to the user when an audio event occurs or the audio event reaches a certain threshold e.g. the degree of exhale . For example the stimulus could be a shock vibration scent sound or flavor. Those skilled in the art will appreciate that one stimulus could be used to train the user to make thorough exhalation while another stimulus could train the user to take deep breaths. Any number of stimuli may be applied to the user with one or more sensors.

In various embodiments the user manually inserts the ring and filter within the protuberance . In one example the ring and filter may be removed and another ring and filter may be placed within the protuberance . In other embodiments the ring and filter is designed within the breathing assistance device and is not inserted by the user.

The filter may be any filter of any material as discussed herein. Although the filter is depicted as being at one end of the ring those skilled in the art will appreciate that the filter may be any size any may fill the ring .

In some embodiments a variety of different size strips and different materials may be available to the user. The user may select a strip size and or material based on their needs such as lung strength. A longer strip of material may be rolled to create a denser filter thereby increasing the air resistance properties of the filter. A shorter strip of material may be rolled to create a less dense filter . Further different materials may provide for different air resistance properties.

In various embodiments a user may purchase the breathing assistance device from a store and receive a variety of filter materials. The filter materials may include filters and or strips of different materials. The strips may be of different lengths. In some embodiments the breathing assistance device may include a chart which indicates which filter or filter materials is appropriate for the user. In one example the chart identifies one or more appropriate filters based on lung strength. The chart may indicate that a certain user with a specific lung strength should tear a strip of material from a perforated page and roll the strip into the desired term. The user may then push the rolled material e.g. the filter into the protuberance of the breathing assistance device . The chart may give an indication on how long the strip should be how wide the strip should be and or the material of the strip. In some embodiments different filters may be folded or rolled in different ways. In one example the material for a filter may be inappropriate for rolling so folding the material bay be suitable. In another example different ways to roll and or fold the material may give the filter different air resistant properties that may be desirable based on the user.

The breathing assistance device could be used for other medical uses and treat specific medical symptoms. Other medical uses may include but are not limited to endoscopy tooth whitening drug delivery claustrophobia any disease or health condition that causes shallow breathing including old age dementia epilepsy with modifications to hold tongue in place during seizure .

In various embodiments the breathing assistance device comprises a breathing tube that substantially protrudes down the user s throat to improve airflow during inspiratory gasp response breathing. The breathing assistance device may also be used in combination with low pressure oxygen that could be injected into the breathing airway.

It should be noted that the breathing assistance device may not be limited to sleeping or medical emergencies. In some embodiments the breathing assistance device may also be used in conjunction with any activity. In one example the user may wish to improve oxygen flow and use the breathing assistance device while preparing for an athletic event such as swimming boxing football rugby speed skiing or race car driving. In some sports the user may be wearing a helmet or mouth piece that diminishes the amount of oxygen that the athlete can inhale or exhale because of a protective mouth guard. The mouth guard may be replaced with the breathing assistance device or reconfigured to include the protuberance and air passage . The protuberance and air passage may also be extended. In one example while preparing for an athletic event such as swimming boxing football rugby speed skiing a user places the breathing assistance device in their mouth. In this example the breathing tube is extended so that air can be drawn from outside of a helmet or other obstruction. This may reduce the amount of moisture within the helmet environment during the athletic activity.

In another example the user may use the breathing assistance device while performing work activity such as welding or painting. In this example the breathing tube may be extended so that air can be drawn from outside of an air filter or other obstruction. This may allow the user to breathe fresh air even though the air in their immediate environment contained pollutants.

In various embodiments the user may use the breathing assistance device while engaging in a high stress activity. The breathing assistance device may monitor the user s breathing patterns and adjust the pressure in the breathing airway to encourage the user to take breaths at regular intervals. The stimulus could also encourage deeper breathing by applying negative pressure to the breathing airway while the user is exhaling and positive pressure when the user is inhaling. Further the breathing assistance device may be used by the elderly to increase airflow increase strength and possibly reduce dementia.

The present invention is described above with reference to exemplary embodiments. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications may be made and other embodiments can be used without departing from the broader scope of the present invention. Therefore these and other variations upon the exemplary embodiments are intended to be covered by the present invention.

