---

title: Auxiliary power unit fire enclosure drain seal
abstract: A drain assembly for an auxiliary power unit having a hot zone formed by a combustor case comprises a fire enclosure, a drain fitting, a discharge port and a piston seal. The fire enclosure encapsulates the hot zone of the combustor case. The drain fitting connects to the fire enclosure. The discharge port extends from the combustor case into the drain fitting. The piston seal is positioned between the drain fitting and the discharge port.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08820045&OS=08820045&RS=08820045
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08820045
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100730
---
The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of Contract No. N00019 06 0081 and Sub Contract No. 4500019224 awarded by the United States Navy.

The present invention is directed to auxiliary power units having fire enclosures. More particularly the invention relates to seals for joining drains to fire enclosures in the auxiliary power unit.

Auxiliary power units APUs comprise gas turbine engines that operate to provide various power inputs to aircraft such as helicopters when the main propulsion engines are not operating such as during ground operations or during the event of an outage during flight. APUs can additionally provide supplemental power to that generated during main engine operations. APUs typically comprise gas turbine engines having a compressor and a turbine between which a combustor burns fuel. Through a gearbox the turbine provides mechanical input to an electrical generator while compressed air bled from the compressor is used to supply various environmental control systems.

APUs are typically located within the outer skin of the fuselage of the aircraft. Thus it is desirable to encapsulate hot sections of the APU to provide a fire break where fuel is present. Conventional practice such as is described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 526 921 to Williams et al. involves rigidly bolting a fire enclosure to various fixed positions on the APU. Temperature variations that arise during different operating cycles of the APU produce thermal expansions of various APU components that alter the distances between the fixed positions. Thermal growth of the APU thus induces strain into the fire enclosure. The ability of the fire enclosure to tolerate deflection or bending is limited because the fire enclosure is not a structural component designed to absorb loading.

Furthermore it is desirable to be able to drain fuel from the combustor out of the fire enclosure in the event of unburned fuel being present in the combustor such as from a failed start or some other such occurrence. Previous attempts at providing drains on APU fire enclosures involved using check valves that needed to be actively closed to prevent combustor air from escaping during operation of the APU and then opened to drain fuel. These valves however typically failed to a closed position which could lead to fuel pooling within the combustor causing a fire hazard. Other fire enclosures such as described in the aforementioned patent to Williams et al. involve bleed air ports having bulb seals that require precise alignment of parts. There is therefore a need for a fire enclosure drain that can accommodate thermal growths and misalignments within APU fire enclosures.

The present invention is directed to a drain assembly for an auxiliary power unit having a hot zone formed by a combustor case. The drain assembly comprises a fire enclosure a drain fitting a discharge port and a piston seal. The fire enclosure encapsulates the hot zone of the combustor case. The drain fitting connects to the fire enclosure. The discharge port extends from the combustor case into the drain fitting. The piston seal is positioned between the drain fitting and the discharge port.

Fire enclosure and the other engine casing components are connected by a plurality of joints that provide structural integrity to APU while also permitting some of the cases to translate to absorb stresses generated during operation of APU . Exhaust case connects with turbine case . Combustor case connects with exhaust case . Fire enclosure connects with compressor case . Exhaust case connects with fire enclosure through aft support ring and joint . Fire enclosure provides a fire wall or fire break between the hot section of APU and the surrounding environment. Drain assembly and piston seal assembly form an expansion joint that permits relative radial and axial displacement between fire enclosure and combustor case .

Compressor case comprises an annular body for housing compressor wheel and compressor blades . Compressor case has a converging inlet between outer and inner walls that comprise a passageway for conducting inlet air Athrough compressor section . Combustor case comprises a single walled annular body having a generally cylindrical side wall portion and a radially converging end portion that houses combustor liner . The side wall portion generally traverses the axial length of combustor liner while the radially converging portion generally traverses the radial extent of combustor liner . Combustor case directs airflow from compressor case into combustor liner .

Turbine case comprises an annular body for housing turbine wheel . Turbine case has a diverging inlet between outer and inner walls that comprise a passageway for conducting compressed inlet air Athrough turbine section . Turbine case connects to the outlet of combustor liner such that combustor liner is encapsulated between compressor case combustor case exhaust case and turbine case . Turbine case directs airflow from combustor section to exhaust case . Exhaust case comprises a cylindrical body having a generally straight upstream section and a slightly diverging downstream section. Exhaust case extends into combustor section and traverses the axial length of combustor liner . Exhaust case directs exhaust air Afrom turbine section out of APU .

Fire enclosure is jointed to APU radially outward of combustor case . Fire enclosure comprises a generally annular or cylindrical body that includes various shapes to accommodate incorporation of other features such as drain assembly . Drain assembly includes fitting connector and scupper . Scupper is joined to combustor case and comprises trough for collecting fluid from combustor section . Fitting connects to fire enclosure and provides a receptacle for the trough of scupper . Connector provides a means for joining a hose or some other containment or flow conducting means to fitting . As is discussed in greater detail with respect to fitting and scupper form joint which comprises a radial and axial expansion joint that permits combustor case to move relative to fire enclosure during operation of APU while also limiting the amount of compressed air leaked from combustor case . Piston seal assembly is positioned between fitting and scupper to prevent compressed inlet air Afrom within combustor section from entering fire enclosure .

In various embodiments compressor case and turbine case comprise bodies that have been manufactured i.e. cast and machined. In various embodiments combustor case and exhaust case comprise thin sheet like bodies that have been shaped and formed. Compressor case turbine case combustor case and exhaust case are formed of various metal alloys such as stainless steel aluminum or titanium. Fire enclosure comprises a thin sheet like structure that is shaped and formed. In various embodiments fire enclosure is also made from various metal alloys as previously listed. However in order to reduce the weight of APU fire enclosure is made from composite materials such as a carbon fiber or fiber reinforced plastic composite in other embodiments.

Inlet air Ais drawn into APU by operation of compressor section . Inlet air Acontinues through compressor section to combustor case . Inside combustor case compressed inlet air Aenters combustor liner which is connected to the inlet of turbine case . Fuel is injected into liner through fuel nozzles not shown and ignited by an igniter not shown to carry out a combustion process to generate high energy gases for turbine section . The high energy gases flow to turbine section where they are expanded and useful work is extracted by turbine section .

Compressor section and turbine section are co axially connected by shaft . As exhaust air Apasses through turbine section turbine wheel rotates shaft through blades . Compressor wheel is also coupled to turbine wheel such that compressor blades rotate to provide compressed air to combustor section for carrying out the combustion process in combination with the fuel provided by the fuel nozzles. Shaft extends from turbine wheel through compressor wheel and bearings . In other embodiments of the invention drain assembly and piston seal can be used in other types of gas turbine engines having hot sections such as industrial gas turbines axial flow turbines and the like.

Operation of combustor section produces heat. Temperatures within combustor section can far exceed approximately 1 000 degrees Fahrenheit 538 Celsius . Temperatures outside of combustor liner reach well above approximately 400 degrees Fahrenheit 204 Celsius due to combustor section and temperatures generated by compression of air in compressor section . Combustor section therefore comprises a hot zone within APU where temperatures are above the flashpoint of fuel used in combustor section . In order to reduce the potential for hazard the hot zone is encapsulated within fire enclosure and other ducts of APU . Fitting connector and scupper of drain assembly prevent flames from escaping fire enclosure while piston seal assembly prevents compressed inlet air Athat escapes combustor case from entering fire enclosure . Drain assembly and piston seal assembly permit expansion and contraction of fire enclosure and combustor case .

Fire enclosure compressor case combustor case and exhaust case are joined. Compressor case combustor case and exhaust case form a flow path for inlet air Aand exhaust air A. A flow path is provided into which ambient air Aflows. Fire enclosure also includes drain assembly which includes drain fitting drain connector and drain scupper and piston seal assembly .

The combustion of air and fuel within combustor liner and compression of air within compressor section builds up heat and produces flames within APU . The flames are contained by combustor case and exhaust case while the heat can conduct through combustor case and exhaust case . Due to the close proximity to liner and heat generated by compressed air flow combustor case does not keep the temperatures outside of APU below the flashpoint of fuel used in combustor section . Fire enclosure provides a layer of containment to flames generated by fuel vapors which contact the exterior surface of combustor case or exhaust case and heat to ensure safe operation of APU under all conditions. In particular fire enclosure provides a flame proof heat zone within APU to prevent the spread of heat and flames. Fire enclosure is supported within APU by connection to compressor case combustor case and exhaust case which along with forward support ring and aft support ring provide structural stability to fire enclosure .

Ambient air Ais allowed into fire enclosure . Exhaust air Adraws ambient air Athrough fire enclosure . Within APU ambient air Acools combustor case . Ambient air Aalso cools the exhaust plume produced by exhaust air Aoutside of APU . Drain fitting and drain scupper of drain assembly allow fuel from combustor to drain out of APU without entering fire enclosure . This eliminates mixing of fuel with water that collects in fire enclosure which is drained separately form APU via drain .

Joint provides degrees of freedom for movement of fire enclosure . Joint comprises a radial and axial expansion joint to provide freedom of movement to fire enclosure in the radial and axial directions. The ability of joints such as joint including piston seal to absorb displacement of combustor case and exhaust case reduces the strain induced in fire enclosure and preserves the stability of fire enclosure . This helps permit fire enclosure to be made from lighter and more brittle material.

As illustrated in drain assembly is positioned between combustor case and fire enclosure at a position where combustor case and fire enclosure comprise generally parallel running annuluses however it will be understood that other configurations are contemplated within the scope of the invention. Fire enclosure includes opening into which drain fitting is positioned. Base is positioned around the exterior of opening such that first collar extends into fire enclosure . Fastener is inserted through opposing bores in base and fire enclosure and secured with a bushing or nut to rigidly join fitting to enclosure . Fastener comprises one of several fasteners and in one embodiment three fasteners are used. Second collar extends from base away from fire enclosure . Passageway extends through first collar second collar and base to link the interior and exterior of fire enclosure .

Drain scupper is joined to a radially outward surface portion of combustor case that includes perforations . First leg A and second leg B are joined to combustor case via welding or some other such suitable fastening means at positions A and B respectively. First leg A and second leg B slope away from combustor case to join with cylindrical extension at a trough or low point of scupper . First leg A is longer than second leg B such that angle of each leg with respect to combustor case is different. The length of legs A and B are determined to position the trough at a low point within APU based on the orientation of APU when mounted in the aircraft in which it is used. Thus in other embodiments second leg B can be longer than first leg A. First leg A and second leg B terminate at a position radially outward of opening in fire enclosure and fitting . Cylindrical extension extends from the trough through piston seal assembly and into first collar of fitting . Orifice is positioned at the distal end of cylindrical extension and aligns generally co axially with passageway of fitting to feed connector .

Drain connector is joined with fitting to provide a means for removing fluid from combustor section . In the embodiment shown connector is configured to link with a hose to collect fluid from drain assembly . First stem is inserted into second collar of fitting . The outer diameter of first stem is configured to form a force fit or interference fit with the inner diameter of second collar . First stem includes ribs or other friction increasing features for improving gripping with second collar . First stem is inserted into second collar until flange engages collar . Second stem extends from flange to form a nipple or fitting around which a hose can be positioned. Second stem includes friction increasing means to enhance connection with the hose. The ends of first stem and second stem include tapered tips to facilitate insertion into collar or a hose respectively.

In the event un burned fuel is present within combustor section drain assembly permits the fuel or any other liquid to pass through combustor case fire enclosure and out of APU . Fuel passes through perforations and is funneled by first leg A and second leg B to cylindrical extension . Cylindrical extension extends into first collar to position orifice near opening in fire enclosure . As such fuel drains into second collar . First collar extends across a majority of the length of cylindrical extension to extend the length over which joint is able to radially expand. The outer diameter of cylindrical extension is smaller than the inner diameter of first collar such axial displacement can be accommodated. Thus if combustor case grows or contracts during operation of APU cylindrical extension remains within collar such that orifice remains generally aligned with through bore . After passing through orifice fuel enters collar and through bore of connector whereby the fuel is permitted to drain out of APU . The fuel is then collected and disposed of as appropriate.

Expansion joint maintains the fire proof integrity of fire enclosure . Base is flush mounted to fire enclosure to provide metal to metal contact that prevents flames from traveling through opening . Also the magnitudes of the inner diameter of cylindrical extension the inner diameter of through bore or the distance between the outer diameter of cylindrical extension and the inner diameter of first collar can be sized to provide a flame quenching or flame arresting path that smothers or otherwise deprives flames emitting from fire enclosure of oxygen such that they are extinguished before exiting fire enclosure .

Furthermore joint preserves the efficiency of the gas turbine of APU . Combustor section is pressurized by compressor section during operation of APU . Turbine section operates more efficiently as the pressure is maintained throughout the combustion process. Thus any leakage of compressed inlet air Afrom combustor case decreases the efficiency of APU . Orifice comprises a small diameter hole that is sized to permit liquid to pass through scupper but to limit or meter the amount of combustor air that escapes from combustor case . Cylindrical extension and orifice comprise a port for discharging fluid from fire enclosure . However in other embodiments an un metered discharge port may be used. Due to the pressurization of combustor section any amount of air leaked out of orifice tends to travel back into fire enclosure . The presence of heated combustor air within fire enclosure is undesirable as it is advantageous to maintain temperatures within enclosure below the flashpoint of fuel. Piston seal assembly prevents combustor air from entering fire enclosure .

Split washer comprises a disk shaped body having a rectangular cross section with a major axis extending perpendicular to first collar . The disk shaped body is cut or split such that washer is not a continuous annulus. The ends of split washer are displaced from each other in the radial direction such that split washer is resilient in the radial direction relative to the axis of APU . Split ring comprises a disk shaped body having a rectangular cross section with a major axis extending parallel to first collar . The disk shaped body is cut or split such that disk is not a continuous annulus. The ends of split washer are spaced from each other in the axial direction such that split ring is resilient in the axial direction relative to the axis of APU . Split washer and split ring are welded to each other to form the piston ring.

The piston ring is positioned within the cup such that split washer rests on platform and split ring faces away from platform . Split washer is positioned below overhang while split ring extends alongside overhang . Retaining ring is positioned within a notch on the inner diameter surface of overhang to prevent the piston ring from being displaced from the cup of piston seal assembly . Split washer is positioned around cylindrical extension of scupper . The inner diameter of split washer is sized to tightly fit around cylindrical extension such that air is prevented from passing between. However split washer is sized to allow the piston ring to slide along cylindrical extension to permit radial displacement between fire enclosure and combustor case . Split ring sits atop split washer such that the resiliency of split washer keeps the piston ring in compression between platform and retaining ring . Split ring deflects within sidewall to permit axial displacement between fire enclosure and combustor case . Piston seal assembly thereby also increases radial and axial tolerances in the assembly of scupper and fitting .

During operation of APU combustor air exits fire enclosure through scupper . Piston seal assembly prevents the combustor air from leaking back through first collar into fire enclosure . The combustor air continues through passageway and through bore whereby it is expelled from APU . Thus expansion joint provided by drain assembly and piston seal assembly prevent flames from escaping fire enclosure and prevent compressed inlet air Athat escapes combustor case from entering fire enclosure . Drain assembly and piston seal assembly permit radial and axial expansion and contraction of fire enclosure and combustor case .

While the invention has been described with reference to an exemplary embodiment s it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiment s disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims.

