---

title: Side loading
abstract: Side loading of content elements is provided. A selection of a content element from a terminal device may be received and a content format associated with the terminal device may be identified. If the content element is not available in the identified content format, the content element may be transcoded from a current content format to the identified content format and the content element may be transferred to the terminal device in the identified content format.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08380878&OS=08380878&RS=08380878
owner: Cox Communications, Inc.
number: 08380878
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100426
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 233 674 filed with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office on Aug. 13 2009 entitled Side Loading which is incorporated herein by reference.

Side loading is a process for providing network delivery of content. In some situations service providers need to provide access to various devices in order for those devices to consume media content. For example a portable video player may download a movie from an online retailer in a specific known format. This conventional strategy requires the service provider to transmit media in a format that is known to be compatible with the specific device in question. This often causes problems because the conventional strategy does not allow the service provider to interact with other devices that may use different formats. For example service providers have no way to determine what formats a device may be able to consume and may have a small number of formats they can provide. This may limit the number of devices service providers may allow consumers to use with their provided media.

Consistent with embodiments of the present invention systems and methods are disclosed for side loading. A selection of a content element from a terminal device may be received and a content format associated with the terminal device may be identified. If the content element is not available in the identified content format the content element may be transcoded from a current content format to the identified content format and the content element may be transferred to the terminal device in the identified content format.

It is to be understood that both the foregoing general description and the following detailed description are examples and explanatory only and should not be considered to restrict the invention s scope as described and claimed. Further features and or variations may be provided in addition to those set forth herein. For example embodiments of the invention may be directed to various feature combinations and sub combinations described in the detailed description.

Embodiments of the present invention provide for a method of enabling the ability to transfer content e.g. video audio etc. stored in a home or in a service provider network to a mobile or other type of customer premises equipment CPE device. A CPE device may comprise telecommunications hardware located at the home or business of a customer while mobile devices may be operative to be relocated and may connect to other networks outside the customer premises e.g. at a WiFi hot spot . Such equipment may include cable or satellite television set top boxes handheld game consoles portable media players tablet and or notebook computers and or cellular telephones. A system utilizing embodiments of the present invention may support a CPE device that may be connected to multiple networks e.g. home LAN and Access WAN concurrently or the connection type may vary over time location of the device.

These embodiments may be combined other embodiments may be utilized and structural changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined by the appended claims and their equivalents. Referring now to the drawings in which like numerals refer to like elements throughout the several figures embodiments of the present invention and an exemplary operating environment will be described.

Consistent with embodiments of the invention a user may be enabled to create rules for how and when content is transferred. Rules that may be created include but are not limited to when transfers of content should take place e.g. only at night over what networks transfers should take place e.g. only when connected via WiFi and or download preferences e.g. willing to sacrifice content quality to have faster download times .

Further consistent with embodiments of the invention a content owner service provider may be enabled to set usage rules for various content. Such usage rules may include but are not limited to what content is eligible for transfers to authorized terminal devices what content is eligible for transfers that does not require any authorization what content requires secure transfer and storage e.g. encryption and or how and when content may be consumed on a terminal device e.g. duration of rental windows restriction by geographic location etc. . Rules whether user or provider created may be tied to a current network access a device is utilizing. Based on the access type or available throughput an appropriate content format may be selected.

Existing home networking protocols may be augmented for device and content discovery and link protection e.g. DLNA UPnP DTCP IP with a higher layer application that provides more robust device application preferences authentication and content usage and downloading rules.

Profile server may be operable for storing user and or device information such as device compatibility lists and or user permissions and or preference data. Connectivity detection module may be operable for detecting what network terminal device is connected to as well as an available transfer rate to terminal device . This may be performed at device connection time session establishment and or during the course of a session. Format selection module may be operable for selecting an appropriate format for a requested content to be transferred in e.g. what video profile bit rate resolution etc. based on rules stored on profile server and information gathered by connectivity detection module . Content transcoding module may be operable for performing a transformation function between content media formats as directed by format selection module . Authentication module may be operable for authenticating and authorizing devices or applications to gain access to restricted content. A trusted application app may be an application that may reside on a device such as terminal device operable for ensuring content usage rules are enforced. Not all content may require trusted application to be present for it to be transferred to a device. Network may comprise a private network such as a cable television distribution network and or a cellular data network and or a public network such as a metropolitan WiMAX network and or the Internet. A rules engine may also be provided that may match content formats to device profiles such as those stored in profile server . The rules engine may comprise a separate server not shown and or may be incorporated as a software module in another element of service architecture .

From stage method may advance to stage where computing device may provide authentication to the service provider. For example terminal device may submit a username and password associated with a user account with the service provider. Authentication module may receive the authentication details verify a status of the user account and identify a plurality of content stored on network content store that may be accessed by terminal device . If terminal device does not have current and or valid authentication credentials the service provider may be operative to provide access to some and or all of the content stored on network content store such as a subset of free video programming and or a list of content that may be ordered and or purchased without an authenticated account. Consistent with embodiments of the invention different customers associated with the service provider may have access to different content elements these differences may be identified according to the authentication details. For example one customer may have access to TV shows while another customer has access to TV shows and movies.

From stage method may advance to stage where computing device may select a content element to be retrieved. For example terminal device may display the list of available content to a user of terminal device and receive a selection from the list. Consistent with embodiments of the invention terminal device may submit a selection request comprising a specific piece of content e.g. episode 3 of season 12 of Lost an element of metadata associated with a piece of content e.g. the most recent episode of Lost and or a search query e.g. Lost . Such a search query may return a plurality of content elements for selection by terminal device . Terminal device may be operative to select multiple content elements e.g. all episodes of Lost . Content elements may comprise but are not limited to elements of electronic data such as audio video streams and or files software applications e.g. games web pages electronic documents and or messages e.g. e mail text messages service provider alerts etc. .

After selecting at least one content element at stage method may advance to stage where computing device may retrieve a profile. For example the profile may be associated with an owner of terminal device a user of terminal device a user associated with the service provider account authenticated in stage and or a profile associated with a type of terminal device. For example the service provider may have a generic profile for any user connecting from a cellular phone a profile for users of specific models of cellular phones or handheld game units or users connecting over a specific carrier or type of network. The profile may comprise rules that may be created by and or for a user of terminal device and or rules created by the service provider.

From stage method may advance to stage where computing device may determine whether the profile specifies compatibility information associated with providing the content element such as a video format. For example the profile may comprise information indicating that terminal device is operable to play videos associated with one and or more codecs e.g. MPEG 4 at one and or more data rates and or at one and or more resolutions. The profile and or the content selection may comprise compatibility information indicating that an incompatible format is desired by a user of terminal device . For example terminal device may comprise a screen capable of displaying a max resolution of 320 240 pixels but may comprise a High Definition HD output port. Terminal device may thus request an HD format instead of and or in addition to a format compatible with its built in screen. The request for the HD format may also comprise a user specified rule associated with the profile.

The compatibility information may further comprise a bandwidth associated with terminal device . For example a mobile video player may be capable of displaying HD movies but may be limited in bandwidth by having only a cellular data connection. The user profile may provide compatibility information specifying a lower resolution and thus smaller data size format for transmission to terminal device . The compatibility information may further comprise a frame rate such as 24 30 or 60 frames per second. A higher bandwidth may allow video data to be transmitted at greater resolution and or higher data rates.

If at stage computing device determines that the profile does not comprise the content compatibility information method may advance to stage where computing device may identify the compatibility information. Content compatibility information may be retrieved for example from trusted application and or inferred from model information associated with terminal device and retrieved by the service provider.

From stage method may advance to stage where computing device may identify an available bandwidth. For example connectivity detection module may perform a bandwidth test to identify a connection speed between terminal device and the service provider. Such a bandwidth time may comprise measuring round trip times for a ping signal and or performing a data transfer to terminal device and measuring the time taken to transmit a known amount of data.

From stage method may advance to stage where computing device may select a format for the content element appropriate to the requesting device. The format selection may take into account the compatibility information of terminal device and the available bandwidth for transmitting the content element to terminal device . For example terminal device may comprise a video codec compatible with HD and standard definition SD video data may be capable of playing Dolby 5.1 audio and may be connected via a 10 Mbps cable modem link to network . The selected format may thus comprise a high resolution H.264 video with 5.1 audio. If the connection link had less available bandwidth the selected format may comprise a lower resolution MPEG 4 video and or two channel stereo audio.

From stage or if the profile identified the compatibility information at stage method may advance to stage where computing device may determine whether the selected content is available in the selected format. Consistent with embodiments of the invention different encoded versions of the same content element may be stored on network content store . These different versions may have been previously created for other users terminal devices having similar format compatibility information and or may be stored by the service provider. For example a selected video may be available in HD and SD format but not a lower resolution QVGA 320 240 format.

If the content is determined not to be available in the selected format at stage method may advance to stage where computing device may transcode the selected content into the selected format. Transcoding is the direct digital to digital conversion of one encoding to another. One method of transcoding may comprise decoding the content data into an intermediate format e.g. pulse code modulation for audio and or YUV color space data for video in a way that still contains the content of the original and then encoding the resulting file into the target format. Transcoding may also comprise re encoding in the same codec format with a changed sample rate and or image size. The transcoded content element may be stored in network content store for future use and or discarded after transmission to the requester.

After transcoding the content at stage or if the content was found to be available in the selected format at stage method may advance to stage where computing device may determine whether the provider requires the content to be encrypted. This requirement may comprise a provider rule applicable to all and or specific elements of content and or applicable to the specific terminal device or user requesting the content.

If encryption is determined to be required at stage method may advance to stage where computing device may determine whether the requesting terminal device supports encrypted content. For example terminal device may need to have trusted app installed to decrypt and view the encrypted content element. If terminal device does not support encryption method may end at stage . Consistent with embodiments of the invention terminal device may display an error message to a user associated with terminal device to inform them of the problem. The service provider may offer the option to install trusted app and continue with retrieving the requested encrypted content. This option may be dependent on the authentication credentials provided at stage .

If the terminal device is determined to support encrypted content at stage method may advance to stage where computing device may encrypt the content element. For example the service provider may apply digital rights management DRM to the content element. Consistent with embodiments of the invention other types of content control and tracking such as digital watermarking may be applied to the content element.

After the element is encrypted at stage or if encryption is determined to not be needed at stage method may advance to stage where the requested content element may be transferred to the terminal device in the selected format. The transfer may occur according to a transfer rule established by the service provider and or the user of terminal device such as a download time window rule associated with the user s profile. For example the user may establish a rule that transfers over 100 MB may take place between 12 00 AM and 5 00 AM and or that transfers should only take place when terminal device is connected via an 802.11 wireless network not a cellular data network. Method may then end at stage .

The stages of method described above are intended as non limiting examples only. Although the method has been described as each being performed by computing device any and or all of the stages of method may be performed by any and or all of the modules and elements described in and . Furthermore the order of stages is merely an example and the stages may be performed in any order. For example the stages indicated as being performed by elements associated with service architecture may be performed by elements associated with customer premises .

CATV system may comprise a distributed client server computing system for providing video and data flow across HFC network between server side services providers e.g. cable television services providers via head end and a client side customer via client side set top box STB functionally connected to a customer receiving device such as television set . CATV systems may provide a variety of services across HFC network including traditional digital and analog video programming telephone services high speed Internet access video on demand and information services.

On the client side of CATV system digital and analog video programming and digital and analog data may be provided to television set via set top box STB . Interactive television services that allow a customer to input data to CATV system may likewise be provided by STB . As illustrated in STB may comprise a multipurpose computing device having a computer processor memory and an input output mechanism. The input output mechanism may receive input from server side processes via HFC network and from customers via input devices such as a remote control device and a keyboard . Remote control device and keyboard may communicate with the STB via a suitable communication transport such as an infrared connection . STB may also include a video processor for processing and providing digital and analog video signaling to television set via a cable communication transport . A multi channel tuner may be provided for processing video and data to and from STB and head end .

STB may also include an operating system for directing the functions of STB in conjunction with a variety of client applications. For example if a client application requires a news flash from a third party news source to be displayed on television operating system may cause the graphics functionality and video processor of STB for example to output the news flash to television at the direction of client application responsible for displaying news items.

Because a variety of different operating systems may be utilized by a variety of different brands and types of set top boxes a middleware layer may be provided to allow a given software application to be executed by a variety of different operating systems. According to an embodiment of the present invention middleware layer may include a set of application programming interfaces API that are exposed to client application and operating system that allow client application to communicate with operating system through common data calls understood via the API set. As described below a corresponding middleware layer may be included on the server side of CATV system for facilitating communication between server side application server and client side STB . A middleware layer of server side application server and middleware layer of client side STB may format data passed between the client side and server side according to the Extensible Markup Language XML . As should be appreciated XML is only one example of data formatting data passed between the client side and the server side may be formatted according to any other suitable formatting language or standard.

According to one embodiment the set top box passes digital and analog video and data signaling to the television via a two way communication transport . STB may pass digital and analog video and data signaling to the television via communication transport . According to an embodiment bidirectional communication may be accomplished between the STB and the television . For example high definition multimedia interface HDMI ports on the STB and television allow for bidirectional data communications between the devices. STB may receive video and data from the server side of CATV system via HFC network through a video data downlink and data via a data downlink. STB may transmit data from the client side of CATV system to the server side of CATV system via HFC network via one data uplink. The video data downlink may comprise an in band downlink that allows for digital and analog video and data signaling from the server side of CATV system through HFC network to set top box for use by STB and for distribution to television set . The in band signaling space may operate at a variety of frequencies. According to one embodiment the in band signaling space may operate at a frequency between 54 and 1000 megahertz. The signaling space between 54 and 860 megahertz is generally divided into 6 megahertz channels in which may be transmitted a single analog signal or a greater number e.g. up to ten digital signals.

The data downlink and the data uplink illustrated in between HFC network and set top box may comprise out of band data links. The out of band frequency range generally lies between zero and 54 megahertz. Data flow between client side set top box and server side application server is typically passed through the out of band data links. Alternatively an in band data carousel may be positioned in an in band channel into which a data feed may be processed from server side application server through HFC network to client side STB . Operation of data transport between components of CATV system described with reference to is well known to those skilled in the art.

Data passed between CATV system backend components such as head end and CATV system front end components such as STB may be passed according to the Data Over Cable Service Interface Specification DOCSIS . DOCSIS provides for a mechanism for data transport over a cable system such as CATV illustrated in . Among other things DOCSIS allows for the passing of digital communications and Internet connectivity over HFC network .

Referring still to head end of the CATV system may be positioned on the server side of CATV system and may include hardware and software systems responsible for originating and managing content for distributing through HFC network to client side STB for presentation to customers via television . As described above a number of services may be provided by CATV system including digital and analog video programming interactive television services telephone services video on demand services targeted advertising and provision of information content.

Application server may comprise a general purpose computing system operative to assemble and manage data sent to and received from client side set top box via HFC network . As described above with reference to set top box application server may comprise middleware layer for processing and preparing data from head end of CATV system for receipt and use by client side set top box . For example application server via the middleware layer may obtain data from one and or more of a plurality of third party services via network for transmitting to a customer through HFC network and set top box . For example a weather report from a third party weather service may be downloaded by application server via network e.g. Internet . When application server receives the downloaded weather report middleware layer may be utilized to format the weather report for receipt and use by set top box . Data obtained and managed by middleware layer of application server may be formatted according to the Extensible Markup Language and may be passed to set top box through HFC network where the XML formatted data may be utilized by client application in concert with middleware layer as described above. A variety of third party services data including news data weather data sports data and other information content may be obtained by application server via distributed computing environments such as network e.g. Internet for provision to customers via HFC network and set top box .

According to embodiments of the present invention the application server may obtains customer profile data from services provider data services which may comprise an implementation of profile server for preparing a customer profile that may be utilized by the set top box for tailoring certain content provided to the customer. According to embodiments of the present invention a customer profile may include communications applications provisioned on networked STBs as well as designations of individual STBs in a home business or facility e.g. kitchen STB bedroom STB office STB and the like .

A plurality of provider data services may include a number of services operated by the services provider of CATV system that may include data on a given customer. For example a billing system may include information such as a customer s name street address business identification number Social Security number credit history and information regarding services and products subscribed to by the customer. An electronic mail system may contain information such as electronic mail addresses high speed Internet access subscription information and electronic mail usage data. An authentication system may include information such as secure user names and passwords utilized by customers for access to network services. A customer information database may include general information about customers such as place of employment business address business telephone number and demographic information such as age gender educational level and the like. As should be understood by those skilled in the art the disparate data services systems are illustrated as a collection of data services for purposes of example only. The example data services systems comprising data services may operate as separate data services systems which communicate with a web services system described below along a number of different communication paths and according to a number of different communication protocols.

Referring still to a web services system is illustrated between application server and data services . Web services system may serve as a collection point for data requested from each of the disparate data services systems comprising data services . When application server requires customer profile data from one or more of data services for preparation or update of a customer profile application server passes a data query to web services system . Web services system formulates a data query to each of the available data services systems for obtaining any available data for a given customer as identified by a set top box identification associated with the customer. Web services system may serve as an abstraction layer between the various data services systems and application server . That is application server is not required to communicate with the disparate data services systems nor is application server required to understand the data structures or data types utilized by the disparate data services systems. Web services system may be operative to communicate with each of the disparate data services systems for obtaining necessary customer profile data. The customer profile data obtained by the web services system is assembled and is returned to application server for ultimate processing via middleware layer as described above.

An embodiment consistent with the invention may comprise a system for providing content transcoding. The system may comprise a memory storage and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage. The processing unit may be operative to receive a selection of a content element from a terminal device identify a content format associated with the terminal device determine whether the content element is available in the identified content format transcode the content element from a current content format to the identified content format and transfer the content element to the terminal device in the identified content format.

Another embodiment consistent with the invention may comprise a system for providing content to a terminal device. The system may comprise a memory storage and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage. The processing unit may be operative to select a content element for transfer to a terminal device identify a content format associated with the terminal device identify a bandwidth associated with a connection to the terminal device prepare the content element for the terminal device according to the identified content format and the bandwidth and transfer the content element to the terminal device over the connection. The preparation may comprise locating a copy of the content element in the identified content format and or transcoding the content element from another format into the identified content format.

Yet another embodiment consistent with the invention may comprise a system for providing formatted content. The system may comprise a memory storage and a processing unit coupled to the memory storage. The processing unit may be operative to connect to a content provider submit an authentication credential to the content provider select a content element available from the content provider and determine whether a profile associated with the authentication credential specifies a preferred content format. If so the processing unit may be operative to determine whether the content element is available in the preferred content format and if not transcode the content element to the preferred content format. The processing unit may then be operative to transfer the content element to the terminal device in the preferred content format.

Computing device may be implemented using a personal computer a network computer a mainframe or other similar microcomputer based workstation. The processor may comprise any computer operating environment such as hand held devices multiprocessor systems microprocessor based or programmable sender electronic devices minicomputers mainframe computers and the like. The processor may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices. Furthermore the processor may comprise a mobile terminal such as a smart phone a cellular telephone a cellular telephone utilizing wireless application protocol WAP personal digital assistant PDA intelligent pager portable computer a hand held computer a conventional telephone a wireless fidelity Wi Fi access point or a facsimile machine. The aforementioned systems and devices are examples and the processor may comprise other systems or devices.

As described herein methods and systems are provided for allowing network delivery of content. It will be apparent to those skilled in the art that various modifications or variations may be made in the present invention without departing from the scope or spirit of the invention. Other embodiments of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art from consideration of the specification and practice of the invention disclosed herein.

