---

title: Digital media resource messaging
abstract: A digital media resource messaging system provides a convenient digital media resource viewing, managing, organizing, and editing platform that facilitates enhanced resource exchange by storing and forwarding digital media resources via a server between multiple resource-sharing partners designated by the user. In one embodiment, the digital media resource messaging system includes services to view, manage, organize, edit, and exchange digital images and video sequences.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08478827&OS=08478827&RS=08478827
owner: Amazon Technologies, Inc.
number: 08478827
owner_city: Incline Village
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101230
---
This application is a continuation of co pending U.S. application Ser. No. 11 069 902 filed Feb. 28 2005 and entitled Digital Media Resource Messaging which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. U.S. application Ser. No. 11 069 902 is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 028 219 filed Oct. 24 2001 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 080 124 issued Jul. 18 2006. U.S. application Ser. No. 10 028 219 claims priority to provisional application No. 60 313 503 entitled System And Method For Sharing And Viewing Digital Pictures and filed on Aug. 21 2001 to provisional application No. 60 315 949 entitled System And Method For Sharing And Viewing Digital Pictures and filed on Aug. 31 2001 and to provisional application No. 60 324 273 entitled System And Method For Sharing And Viewing Digital Pictures and filed on Sep. 25 2001 the specifications of which are hereby fully incorporated by reference.

The invention relates generally to the field of data processing and in particular to the exchange display and manipulation of digital media resources such as image and video files.

Over the years digital imaging has gained considerable popularity with both consumers and professionals alike. In the past individuals would use an optical scanner to digitize conventional print based photographs in order to create an electronic version of the image that could be manipulated and or exchanged with colleagues as well as friends and family. Although optical scanners remain in use today digital photography involving the use of digital cameras to capture multiple high resolution color images which are then digitally stored in a memory storage device rather than onto conventional emulsion based film has continued to gain attention. Because the digital images are stored in memory they may be instantly viewed on the camera i.e. using an included display screen without the need for lengthy and costly development processes required by conventional film. Additionally as soon as the electronic images are captured they may be uploaded to a computer for subsequent exchange with friends and family via the Internet for example.

In the past individuals having access to the Internet were limited to using electronic mail as a means of exchanging digital images. Although this was considered a relatively fast way of exchanging images with people in varied locations around the world the various user interfaces available for sending the images proved difficult to use. For example if a user wished to email images to multiple parties the user would either have to send individual email messages to each desired recipient which proved time consuming or send a single message addressed to each recipient on a mailing list. Although the mailing list accelerated image distribution there was there was no straightforward way to designate that different pictures be sent to different addressees without creating separate mailing lists. Once the recipient received the email they had to download and save the attached images which frequently resulted in the user losing track of where they saved these images. Furthermore to view the images the user would have to click on the images one by one and open and view them individually in a web browser or other imaging application. If the images were too large to fit the available viewing area the user would be forced to use a zoom function if available in order to view the image in its entirety or be forced to pan across the image.

With the increase in popularity of the World Wide Web coupled with readily available web page editing software individuals soon began to create personal web sites to display their various digitized photographs and electronic images to family and friends. Although this method provided one way to display images to a geographically diverse group of people there was often very little security associated with such personal web sites allowing more than the intended audience to view one s personal images. Additionally the intended viewing audience of the personal web site would have to repeatedly check back in order to determine if the web site owner editor posted any new pictures. Further still all image viewing was required to be conducted while the viewer remained on line. If a given portfolio contained high resolution images for example the downloading and viewing time could be considerable. Furthermore the user had to have at least some familiarity with how to author a web page containing these pictures.

To address the various privacy issues and other limitations involving the posting of images photo sharing services were introduced. As with personal web pages these photo sharing web sites enabled individuals to upload and store digital images that could be viewed by others over the Internet. The main difference was that the images would be stored in an area of the web site dedicated to that individual and could be password protected to limit viewing by unintended parties. Notwithstanding this however image viewing still needed to be conducted on line which resulted in very poor performance due in part to the unreliably variable speed of response from the Internet. Any picture editing functionality provided by the website was even more adversely affected by the unreliable speed of response. Additionally the service providers hosting the photo sharing services were required to maintain extremely large file storage capacities as each image is filed on a photo sharing server for perpetuity.

More recently digital picture frames have been introduced as another mechanism for sharing digital images. Briefly digital picture frames are special purpose devices that contain liquid crystal display LCD screens typically in the 5 7 or 8 10 size range that are capable of displaying digital images of a limited resolution. One particular digital picture frame available from Ceiva Logic Inc. of Burbank Calif. uses a standard telephone line to connect to a picture server in order to download a predefined number of images. Before the images may be downloaded to the digital picture frame however the owner or another party authorized by the owner must first upload these images to the picture server through the use of a separate browser equipped computer or appliance. Additionally while the digital picture frame is downloading the images the phone line is tied up thereby preventing other tasks such as web browsing or email to be contemporaneously carried out. Furthermore digital picture frames do not provide image editing and or manipulation capabilities. For example users cannot prevent some pictures from being displayed or brighten them up and so on. Also the images displayed on the digital picture frames cannot be shared with other friends or concurrently viewed by multiple parties. For example if a grandmother who owns a digital picture frame were to receive images of her granddaughter uploaded from by her son the grandmother would not be able to share the images with anyone over the Internet let alone anyone outside of the view of the digital picture frame.

A digital media resource messaging system is described herein. In one embodiment a photo management software client provides a convenient image viewing managing and editing platform that facilitates enhanced image exchange by storing and forwarding image files via a server between multiple resource sharing partners designated by the user. In the following description unless otherwise noted the terms image photo photograph and picture are used interchangeably to refer to digital images that are capable of being rendered on a display device such as a CRT or liquid crystal display LCD for example. Furthermore the phrase digital media resource is intended to be broadly construed to refer to digital images as well as digital video one or more digital video frames and even text files and other documents. Additionally the term buddy is used herein to refer to one or more resource sharing partner s with whom the user may opt to share one or more digital media resources. Moreover a buddy list refers to a list of individuals whether represented by first and or last name username or email address with whom a user has chosen to share digital media resources.

For purposes of explanation specific numbers materials and configurations are set forth in the following description in order to provide a thorough understanding of the invention. It will be apparent however to one skilled in the art that the invention may be practiced without these specific details. In some instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the invention. In other instances well known features are omitted or simplified in order not to obscure the present invention. For ease of understanding certain method steps are delineated as separate steps however these separately delineated steps should not be construed as necessarily order dependent in their performance. Furthermore reference in the specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the invention. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in various places in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

For example in accordance with the teachings of the present invention the user of computer system may elect to share one or more images with the user s of computer system s and or as resource sharing partners. The image s may be stored locally on computer system or remotely on another data storage device within the messaging system of . In an embodiment where the images are stored locally on the originating i.e. uploading computer system the corresponding user is prompted again through a GUI to identify which digital media resources are to be shared with one or more other resource sharing partner recipients. In one embodiment once the digital media resources have been identified they are uploaded to server where they are temporarily stored until the next subsequent login by the designated resource sharing partner recipient s . In other embodiments server stores the resources for a predetermined length of time such as a period of weeks and purges the resources after that duration whether or not all the intended recipients have logged in and downloaded the resources.

Upon logging in to server the stored digital media resources are transparently downloaded either automatically or upon the recipient s explicit approval e.g. depending on which option the recipient has selected for resource downloads to each designated recipient s respective computer system in the background leaving the recipient s free to perform any number of other tasks such as viewing editing or sharing resources browsing the web checking email and so forth. In accordance with the present invention both sender and recipient need not be logged in to the server at the same time in order to share digital media resources. In one embodiment the digital media resources are uploaded to and downloaded from server using the well known hypertext transfer protocol HTTP . In some embodiments the system may also use other protocols than HTTP for example FTP or TCP IP. Once the digital media resources have been downloaded or prior to uploading the recipient user is able to perform any number of tasks on or with the digital media resources. For example in the event the digital media resources comprise digital images a user recipient may have the option of viewing the downloaded images editing the images organizing the images and so forth. In one embodiment the downloaded digital media resources are automatically displayed on the corresponding computer system in the form of a screen saver whereas in another embodiment the downloaded digital media resources are automatically displayed in the form of background wallpaper on the display device. In other embodiments the downloaded digital media resources may be displayed as part of an Active Desktop on the corresponding computer system or even on a TV screen.

In one embodiment once the digital media resources have been downloaded to one or more computer systems server removes the digital media resources from memory thereby decreasing perpetual storage requirements of server . Additionally since the digital media resources are downloaded to the various computer systems the digital media resources may be viewed or accessed offline by the users thereby eliminating delays caused by slow and often unreliable network connections. In one embodiment server generates and stores a meta data file in association with each digital media resource the server receives. The meta data file may include items of information such as the resource file name file size content type creation date who uploaded the resource and when as well as who downloaded the resource and when. The meta data files facilitate resource searches by server without the need to uncompress any stored resource files. These resource searches can be constrained to specific criteria and combinations of criteria such as locating all files created by user Jim after Oct. 16 2001 and smaller than 500K. In one embodiment if a user requests a digital media resource that has since been deleted from server the server utilizes the meta data files to send a message to those prior resource recipients requesting a copy of the digital media resource. Once again this acts to decrease the amount of storage space needed on server .

Network represents any of a variety of communications networks equipped to transport data between various communication devices such as those illustrated in for example. In one embodiment network represents a transmission control protocol internet protocol TCP IP based network such as but not limited to the Internet. In other embodiments network may represent a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN or some combination thereof. In yet another embodiment any one or more of computer systems may be directly coupled to each other and or server in addition to or in place of the illustrated connections to network . Although three general purpose computer systems are illustrated in a fewer or greater number of computer systems may instead be coupled to network without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

Except for the teachings of the present invention each of these elements performs its conventional functions known in the art. In particular system memory and mass storage are employed to respectively store a working copy and a permanent copy of the programming instructions implementing the photo management client of the present invention in addition to operating system . The permanent copy of such programming instructions may be loaded into mass storage in the factory or in the field as described earlier through a distribution medium not shown or through communication interface from a distribution server not shown . The constitution of these elements are known and accordingly will not be further described.

As alluded to earlier photo management client represents a software client that may be executed by one or more of computer systems and to facilitate enhanced digital media resource exchange between multiple designated resource sharing partners. In the illustrated embodiment photo management client includes sharing services viewing services editing services organizing services and messaging services . Although not pictured photo management client may further include printing services to facilitate local or third party printing of digital media resources including photos and documents.

In one embodiment sharing services provide various functionalities including the ability to share one or more digital media resources with one or more buddies by way of a user friendly graphical interface. Viewing services facilitate the viewing of downloaded digital media resources i.e. in the form of images or video as well as the previewing of digital media resources to be uploaded. Editing services similarly facilitate manipulation and augmentation of images that have been downloaded or are to be uploaded. In one embodiment organizing services facilitate organizing and consolidating digital media resources including those resources resident locally on the user s computer system those resources received from one or more buddies and those resources sent to one or more buddies. In one embodiment the digital media resources may be organized into collections using a hierarchical directory structure. In one embodiment messaging services provide messaging capabilities to the host computer system such that a user may exchange text video and audio content with another user or resource sharing partner. For example in one embodiment of the invention any resource sharing partner may initiate a text or voice chat session with any other resource sharing partner while the shared resources are concurrently displayed on the corresponding computer systems. Accordingly two users may chat about one or more images concurrently displayed upon each user s respective display device. In one embodiment messaging services further facilitate the exchange and synchronization of resource meta information. For example one user may assign a rating to a particular resource which is then conveyed to the server. The server then consolidates each rating received from various users for a given resource into an average rating for the resource. Each client who is known by the server to have received a copy of this resource is then updated synchronized with the updated average rating the next time they log in. Additionally the server may similarly update synchronize other user provided feedback including but not limited to resource related comments.

In one embodiment the photo management client can be integrated with shell and user interface of Windows based operating systems. This allows users to initiate chatting with buddies sharing organizing viewing of pictures and managing their buddy lists from anywhere in the Windows interface not just from the photo management client user interface. Accordingly a user may elect to share digital media resources with buddies in any of a number of ways. For example a user may use the right click feature of Windows and other operating systems to find out which buddies if any he has shared a particular resource with. Similarly a user can right click on a particular file or folder in order to share it with the user s buddies. Alternatively the user may also use the dialog tool bar menu or task pane to elect to share a resource in addition to using the right click function.

If at block the user does not choose to share images with a buddy but instead chooses to display one or more images on a corresponding display screen block the user is then prompted to select the image source s . If the user has identified one or more image sources that are part of an existing image collection block the user is prompted to identify the collection block . At block the user may then add additional images to a preexisting collection or otherwise confirm the user s pending action block . If back at block it was determined that the image source was not part of an existing collection the user is queried as to whether the image source is located on the local hard drive block . If so the user selects the image sources block and gives a name to the new collection of images created by such selection block . At block the user is provided with an opportunity to preview the collection of image resources and update them e.g. add delete if it is deemed desirable blocks . If the source of the image is not an existing collection block or a local hard drive block the image source may be a WWW album from one or more Internet photo sharing services block . If the image source is indeed a web album from one or more Internet photo sharing services the user is prompted to enter the URL identifying the album block . Thereafter the user is prompted to name the newly created image collection and preview update if desired.

While the present invention has been described in terms of the above described embodiments the present invention is not limited to the embodiments described. As the present invention can be practiced with further modification and alteration within the spirit and scope of the appended claims the description is to be regarded as illustrative instead of restrictive on the present invention.

