---

title: Surface plasmon enhanced optical devices for integrated photonics
abstract: An optical device for integrated photonic applications includes a substrate, a dielectric waveguide and a surface plasmon waveguide. The dielectric waveguide includes a dielectric waveguide core disposed relative to a dielectric waveguide cladding and a common cladding. The surface plasmon waveguide includes a surface plasmon waveguide core disposed relative to the common cladding and a surface plasmon waveguide cladding. The common cladding couples the dielectric waveguide and the surface plasmon waveguide.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08849072&OS=08849072&RS=08849072
owner: Physical Sciences, Inc.
number: 08849072
owner_city: Andover
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100211
---
This application claims the benefit of and priority to U.S. provisional patent application No. 61 152 377 filed Feb. 13 2009 which is owned by the assignee of the instant application and the disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

This invention was made with government support by the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency and U.S. Army Aviation Missile Command under Contract No. W31P4Q 08 C and Contract No. W31P4Q 09 C 0318. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

This invention relates generally to optical devices suitable for integrated photonic applications and more particularly to surface plasmon enhanced optical devices.

Integrated photonics offer the promise of combining many optical devices on a substrate leading to miniaturization and increased functionality on a chip. Optical devices include but are not limited to optical isolators frequency converters amplitude or frequency modulators couplers splitters and combiners. Integrated photonics can be formed from optical devices compatible with commonly used semiconductor fabrication techniques and materials and of a size scale suitable for dense integration.

An optical isolator is a nonreciprocal device that allows transmission of an optical wave in one direction but blocks it in the reverse direction. An optical isolator is analogous to a diode having a low electrical resistance between its input pod and output pod and a very high resistance between its output pod and its input pod thereby permitting electrical current flow predominantly in one direction. Similarly a light wave fed into the input pod of an optical isolator is guided with low loss to its output pod and any counter propagating light wave is attenuated so that only a minimal amount of power leaves the optical isolator via the input pod. A reciprocal device is symmetric upon interchange of the input and the output. In a nonreciprocal device this interchange symmetry does not exist. Optical isolators can be used in optical systems since backscattered light creates noise and instability in laser sources particularly in integrated platforms where the potential for backscattering increases with device density.

For bulk optical devices a free space optical isolator also known as a bulk isolator makes use of the Faraday effect where a magneto optic material produces a nonreciprocal polarization rotation to achieve isolation. An input field is transmitted through an input polarizer followed by a Faraday rotator which provides a 45 polarization rotation to the incident beam and finally an output polarizer oriented at 45 with respect to the input polarizer. In the forward the direction the field is completely transmitted as it is always polarized along the polarizer axes. In the reverse direction the beam undergoes an additional 45 polarization rotation that is blocked by the input polarizer.

A dielectric waveguide incorporating the Faraday concept suitable for fabrication using semiconductor industry process steps can be made of a magnetically active material to achieve an integrated waveguide Faraday rotator.

A nonreciprocal phase shift isolator can make use of an interferometer arrangement. Both arms of the interferometer can contain a magneto optic material with a magnetic field applied in a direction transverse to the propagation direction. In the forward direction fields in both arms of the interferometer add constructively in phase. In the reverse direction a nonreciprocal phase shift in one or both arms produces destructive interference and therefore isolation.

In a nonreciprocal loss isolator a magneto optic metal produces nonreciprocal loss in the optical wave. An active amplifying medium compensates for the loss in the forward direction. In the reverse direction the nonreciprocity results in a larger loss resulting in isolation.

Surface plasmon waveguides have been suggested for use in a non reciprocal phase shift interferometer arrangement. The magneto optic metals such as Co and magneto optic dielectrics such as yttrium iron garnet YIG and bismuth iron garnet BIG are not compatible with III V optoelectronic devices and the processes for fabricating them.

An optical waveguide isolator based on a Y shaped branching waveguide coupler is formed in one layer of a device made from III V materials such as GaAs or InP with one isolating branch integrated with a III V light emitting diode. With a 2 branching angle a transmission in the forward direction of 41 which corresponds to an insertion loss of approximately 3.8 dB and a transmission in the backward or reverse direction of 0.16 which corresponds to an isolation of approximately 28 dB can be achieved. The isolator strength defined as the ratio of insertion loss to isolation can be 256. With a 3 branching angle and a cascade of four optical waveguide isolators an isolator strength of 625 can result. Insertion loss is the loss experienced by an optical wave propagating through an optical isolator in forward direction.

A planar waveguide optical isolator comprising a Y shaped combiner splitter can include a planar waveguide N way splitter combiner. The forward directed signal is coupled into one of N 1 input waveguides propagates through a coupling region and is then coupled into the output waveguide. Reflected signals coupled into the output waveguide propagate through the coupling region and are split between each of the N 1 input waveguides. Except for the input waveguide each of the N 1 branches is terminated with an isolating element to prevent further propagation of the reflected signal. The cascade arrangement of the waveguide branches is calculated to achieve the desired isolation. For a single stage isolator capable of achieving 3 dB isolation presuming a 50 50 split between the input port and a single reflecting port a cascaded arrangement of ten such isolators is required to provide approximately 30 dB of isolation.

A single Y shaped isolator structure can have a length on the order of 2.5 mm. As noted above the Y shaped approach can require a cascade of approximately ten isolators to achieve 30 dB isolation and can consequently require a much greater length.

An optical frequency converter is a device that takes an input field at one frequency and produces one or more output fields at one or more different frequencies. This process is therefore nonlinear as new frequency components not present in the input field are created in the frequency converter. The efficiency of a nonlinear process requires phase matching between the interacting fields. Traditional methods for phase matching include exploiting crystal birefringence by propagating waves along different axes of anisotropic crystals periodically inverting crystal orientation to discretely reset the relative phase so called quasi phase matching QPM or propagating waves in different waveguide modes to exploit waveguide dispersion. The birefringence method is limited to materials and wavelengths with specific properties and not generally applicable to integrated photonic devices. QPM can be used in non birefringent materials and in waveguide geometries permits conversion over indefinite propagation distances. QPM can equalize the phase velocity of waves of different frequencies propagating in a crystal by discretely inverting the crystal orientation along its length. Fabrication methods for QPM devices however require periodic patterning of crystal structures and have only been demonstrated for a small class of ferroelectric materials and semiconductors such as GaAs and ZnSe.

Amplitude modulation is a third important function in optical communications where one signal containing information is transmitted by varying the strength of a second carrier signal. One example of a magneto optic technique for achieving amplitude modulation uses the Faraday effect. An optical field is transmitted through an input polarizer then coupled to a magneto optic waveguide followed by an output polarizer oriented at an angle with respect to the input polarizer. When a magnetic field is applied to the magneto optic waveguide in a direction parallel to the propagation direction the polarization of the optical field rotates. The output beam is therefore attenuated as it passes through the output polarizer. A similar approach for polarization rotation followed by polarization filtering can be accomplished using an electro optic birefringent material such as LiNbO GaAs .

Interferometric modulators use an electro optic material in the waveguide where an electric field induces birefringence that produces a relative change in phase between the arms of the interferometer. When the optical fields in the interferometer arms are recombined destructive interference occurs as a result of the induced phase shift.

Surface plasmon based modulators have been developed using interferometric configurations. In some cases the dielectric material can include a thermo optic polymer whose temperature rises when an electric signal is applied to the surface plasmon metal resulting in a phase shift in the interferometer arm. The bandwidth in thermo optic based devices can be low as a result of the slow heating process.

An electro optic modulator can use a surface plasmon metal placed directly on top of a dielectric waveguide core material. The upper cladding of the surface plasmon waveguide can include an electro optic material. An electric field causes the dielectric waveguide mode to be reflected or absorbed in the surface plasmon mode resulting in an amplitude modulation.

A magneto optic surface plasmon modulator has been developed which works by applying a transverse magnetic field to a magneto optic material bounded by a surface plasmon guiding metal. A free space optical beam couples into the surface plasmon metal when the phase matching condition is satisfied.

As the complexity of optical system increases multiple optical functions including but not limited to optical isolation frequency conversion and amplitude modulation can be monolithically integrated onto a single material substrate to reduce the size and cost of the optical system. Lattice mismatch between semiconductors such as InP and GaAs used in photonic chips and magneto optic materials such as BIG and YIG used in optical isolators and nonlinear materials such as lithium niobate used in frequency converters and amplitude modulators can be overcome.

Surface plasmon integrated circuits and devices offer several attractive features such as strong confinement of optical fields the ability to simultaneously transport photonic and electronic signals tolerance for sharp bending and compatibility with existing semiconductor materials and manufacturing processes. Magneto optic surface plasmon devices can exploit the ability to use the surface plasmon guiding metal as a current carrying wire to generate magnetic fields that interact with the surface plasmon propagation characteristics. This current induced localized magnetic field is well suited for optical devices such as high bandwidth amplitude modulators and other optical devices such as optical isolators frequency modulators couplers splitters combiners and the like.

In some embodiments the invention features an optical isolator device including a dielectric waveguide and a surface plasmon waveguide suitable for integrated photonic applications. The physics of the dielectric waveguide and the surface plasmon waveguide in proximity enables several optical device applications suitable for integrated photonics. A dielectric waveguide for example InP lower cladding InGaAs core and InP upper cladding and a magneto optic surface plasmon waveguide for example InP lower cladding Fe core and air upper cladding can be separated by a common cladding material in an optical device. A common cladding can be a material layer serving as both the upper cladding of the dielectric waveguide and the lower cladding of the surface plasmon waveguide. In certain embodiments a magneto optic dielectric waveguide for example InP upper cladding InGaAsP Fe core and InP lower cladding and a non magneto optic surface plasmon waveguide for example InP lower cladding Au core and air upper cladding can be combined. Device applications from this geometry include integrated optical isolators and amplitude modulators.

In one aspect the invention features an optical device for integrated photonic applications. The optical device includes a substrate a dielectric waveguide comprising a dielectric waveguide core disposed relative to a dielectric waveguide cladding and a common cladding and a surface plasmon waveguide comprising a surface plasmon waveguide core disposed relative to the common cladding and a surface plasmon waveguide cladding. The common cladding can couple the dielectric waveguide and the surface plasmon waveguide.

In another aspect the invention features an optical device for integrated photonic applications. The optical device includes a substrate a dielectric waveguide comprising a dielectric waveguide core disposed relative to a dielectric waveguide cladding and a common cladding and a surface plasmon waveguide comprising a surface plasmon waveguide core disposed relative to the common cladding and an effective surface plasmon waveguide cladding. The common cladding couples the dielectric waveguide and the surface plasmon waveguide.

In still another aspect the invention features a method for fabricating an optical device for integrated photonic applications. A dielectric waveguide is disposed on a substrate. The dielectric waveguide includes a dielectric waveguide core relative to a dielectric waveguide cladding and a common cladding. A surface plasmon waveguide is disposed on the dielectric waveguide. The surface plasmon waveguide includes a surface plasmon waveguide core between the common cladding and a surface plasmon waveguide cladding. The dielectric waveguide and the surface plasmon waveguide share the common cladding and the dielectric waveguide and the surface plasmon waveguide are coupled.

In another aspect the invention features a method of operating an optical device for integrated photonic applications. A dielectric waveguide and a surface plasmon waveguide are coupled on a substrate. A magnetic field is applied in a direction transverse to propagation to cause the effective index of the surface plasmon waveguide to be non reciprocal.

In yet another aspect the invention features a method for designing an optical device comprising a dielectric waveguide and a surface plasmon waveguide formed on a substrate for integrated photonic applications. The effective index of the dielectric waveguide is determined. The real part of the surface plasmon waveguide effective index in the reverse direction is designed to match the effective index of the dielectric waveguide. The length of the surface plasmon waveguide required to fully couple into the surface plasmon waveguide in the reverse direction is determined. The thickness of the common cladding necessary to avoid coupling into the surface plasmon waveguide in the forward direction is determined. The design allows to one to obtain a target low insertion loss and a large isolation.

In still another aspect the invention features a method for designing an optical device comprising a dielectric waveguide and a surface plasmon waveguide formed on a nonlinear substrate for integrated photonics frequency conversion applications. The surface plasmon core geometry is designed on a nonlinear optical material and the surface plasmon core geometry of length L includes a ridge on a surface plasmon core to phase match the nonlinear frequency conversion.

In another aspect the invention features a method for operating an optical device for integrated photonic applications. A dielectric waveguide and a surface plasmon waveguide are coupled on a substrate based on index matching where the surface plasmon waveguide core is bounded by a cladding. A current is applied in the surface plasmon waveguide core to change the effective index of the surface plasmon waveguide resulting in amplitude modulation.

In other embodiments any of the aspects above or any apparatus device or system or method process or technique described herein can include one or more of the following features.

In various embodiments either the dielectric waveguide or the surface plasmon waveguide includes a magneto optic material. In certain embodiments the surface plasmon waveguide cladding includes a magneto optic material. The surface plasmon waveguide core can include a non magneto optic material. In some embodiments the surface plasmon waveguide core includes a magneto optic material. The surface plasmon waveguide core can include a layer of a magneto optic material formed on a layer of a non magneto optic material. The surface plasmon waveguide cladding can be an effective cladding layer defined by ambient air.

The effective index of the surface plasmon waveguide can be adapted to be non reciprocal when receiving a magnetic field in a direction transverse to propagation. The optical device can be an optical isolator frequency modulator an amplitude modulator a coupler a splitter or a combiner. In various embodiments a portion of the dielectric waveguide cladding is the common cladding.

In certain embodiments the surface plasmon waveguide core defines a ridge formed on a surface of the common cladding. A first grating can be formed on the surface of the common cladding at a first end of the ridge. A second grating can be formed on the surface of the common cladding at a second end of the ridge. A current source can be adapted to be in electrical communication with the surface plasmon waveguide core.

In one or more embodiments the invention features a surface plasmon enhanced optical isolator for integrated photonics.

In one or more embodiments the invention features a surface plasmon enhanced frequency converter for integrated photonics.

In one or more embodiments the invention features a surface plasmon enhanced amplitude modulator for integrated photonics.

In one or more embodiments the invention features methods for designing surface plasmon enhanced optical devices for integrated photonics.

In one or more embodiments the invention features methods for fabricating surface plasmon enhanced optical devices for integrated photonics.

Other aspects and advantages of the invention will become apparent from the following drawings and description all of which illustrate principles of the invention by way of example only.

The optical device is compatible with fabrication techniques developed for the semiconductor industry on substrate . In various embodiments substrate can be InP GaAs Si GaSb GaN or other like materials. The dielectric waveguide can include combinations of any of the substrate materials or other like materials. One or more of the cladding materials can include a Group III V semiconductor material or a Group II IV semiconductor material. A cladding material can include for example InP GaAs GaSb GaN Si SiO or SiN.

An effective surface plasmon cladding can be the surrounding environment for example air or the ambient atmosphere to distinguish it from a deposited material. The common cladding serves as the cladding layer of the dielectric waveguide and the cladding layer of the surface plasmon waveguide . The proximate relationship of the dielectric waveguide and surface plasmon waveguide can be exploited to facilitate coupling leading to nonreciprocal behavior.

The surface plasmon core can include a non magneto optic material for example Au Ag or any other non magneto optic metal or can include a magneto optic material such as iron nickel cobalt or a magneto optic alloy. The surface plasmon core can be bi metallic.

In various embodiments the surface plasmon core includes a first layer of a non magneto optic material and a second layer of a magneto optic material see e.g. . The second layer can be disposed or formed on the first layer and the first layer can be disposed or formed on the common cladding. In certain embodiments the non magneto optic material is gold and the magneto optic material is iron although other materials can be used for either layer. In one detailed embodiment the gold has a thickness of about 20 nm and the iron has a thickness of about 45 nm although other dimensions can be used.

When an external magnetic field is applied to the metal in the direction transverse to propagation the effective index of the surface plasmon waveguide becomes different in the forward and reverse directions thereby resulting in nonreciprocal behavior. In the reverse direction the effective indices of the surface plasmon waveguide and the dielectric waveguide are matched and strong coupling occurs. In the forward direction the indices of the dielectric waveguide and the surface plasmon waveguide are different and minimal coupling occurs as a result of the phase mismatch.

To achieve optical isolation the effective index of the surface plasmon waveguide matches that of the dielectric waveguide in the reverse propagation direction. In the forward direction the effective indices differ to achieve low insertion loss. The nonreciprocity of the surface plasmon waveguide results from an external magnetic field applied in a direction transverse to that of the optical beam propagation in the magneto optic metal known as the Voigt geometry .

To achieve the desired performance of the optical isolator the following parameters are varied during design 1 the surface plasmon waveguide effective index 2 the dielectric waveguide effective index 3 the surface plasmon device length and 4 the surface plasmon coupling coefficient. The procedure comprises the following steps 

Step . Determine the effective index of the dielectric waveguide n using e.g. a finite difference full vectorial magnetic field solver or other similar technique.

Step . Evaluate the effective index of the surface plasmon waveguide in the forward and reverse directions n n by e.g. solving Maxwell s equations. Design the surface plasmon waveguide such that the real part of its effective index in the reverse direction matches the real part of the effective index of the dielectric waveguide Ren Ren . The nominal surface plasmon waveguide effective index nis evaluated using the finite difference full vectorial magnetic field method although other techniques can be used . The forward and reverse surface plasmon indices are determined by nn n 2k and n n 2k where is the detuning parameter induced by the externally applied magnetic field. kis the propagation constant in free space k 2 where is the wavelength in free space.

The following is an example of how to solve for the detuning parameter. First Maxwell s equations can be solved to calculate the effective indices and mode profiles for a simplified one dimensional geometry. shows a magneto optic surface plasmon core such as iron in proximate relation with a dielectric waveguide for example an InP cladding InGaAsP core and InP common cladding . The design process can also be applied to a magneto optic dielectric waveguide such InP InP Fe InP for the cladding core and upper cladding respectively and a non magneto optic surface plasmon waveguide such as InP Au air for the common cladding core and effective cladding respectively . The common cladding can be magneto optic and the dielectric waveguide and surface plasmon waveguide core and cladding materials can be non magneto optic. The analysis for a magneto optic surface plasmon waveguide core can be illustrated in proximate relation with a non magneto optic dielectric waveguide.

The dielectric properties of the magneto optic metal can be described in terms of a permittivity tensor 

where is the permittivity of the metal in the absence of the magnetic field and the off diagonal elements are complex quantities that are proportional to the externally applied magnetic field M in the direction transverse to propagation. To solve for the detuning parameter the change in the propagation constant 2 n with a change in the direction of propagation is solved. Since reversing the magnetic field is equivalent to changing the direction of propagation the detuning parameter can be defined in terms of M and M .

The magnetic fields are assumed to be of the form H f x efor the geometry shown in where 0 Region I 2 cos sin 0Region II 3 Region III 4 

Continuity of the tangential magnetic field H x 0 requires that A C. Continuity of the tangential electric field E x 0 requires that 

Region II corresponding to the magneto optic metal can be considered. Using the curl relationship of the magnetic field the electric field can be expressed in terms of the magnetic field 

Substituting equation 2 for the magnetic field in equation 6 and evaluating the result at x 0 results in equation 7 

This equation can be expressed in terms of Eand substitute equations 4 and 5 to solve for the amplitude constant B resulting in 

Starting with the curl relation of the magnetic field in the magneto optic metal superscript Ecan be used to denote the electric field in region II 

The magnetic field can be substituted for the metal region given by equation 2 into the left side of the curl relation in 9 .

Next the boundary conditions for the tangential magnetic field in region III are implemented. The tangential magnetic field H x h is found from setting equation 2 equal to 3 at the interface resulting in H x h H x h cos sin 12 

The electric field in region III is then found by evaluating the curl relationship E 1 j 1 d dx Hresulting in 

The last step involves implementing the boundary condition on the tangential electric field which allows E x h E x h to be written. Substitution of equation 13 into equation 11 and some algebraic manipulation yields a transcendental equation 

Reversing the sign of the magnetic field is equivalent to reversing the direction of propagation. The sign of the magnetic field is taken into account in the off diagonal terms of the permittivity tensor and which are proportional to the magnetic field strength. Solving equations 14 and 15 for as a function of a positive magnetic field M results in the forward propagation constant M . Solving equations 14 and 15 for a negative magnetic field results in the reverse propagation constant M . The detuning parameter is defined as . The detuning parameter can quantify mismatch.

Step . Use coupled mode theory to determine the length of the surface plasmon waveguide required to fully couple into it in the reverse direction for a coupling strength determined by the thickness of the common cladding material. To apply coupled mode theory the lossless approximation to determine the coupling coefficient can be used. For the lossless case the coupling coefficient from the dielectric waveguide to the surface plasmon waveguide is equivalent to the coupling coefficient from the surface plasmon waveguide to the dielectric waveguide so the subscripts are dropped and . The coupling coefficient for the lossless case is given by 

where is the permittivity of the core of the dielectric waveguide e.g. InGaAsP and is the permittivity of the common cladding e.g. InP . Uand Uare the unperturbed normalized cross sectional magnetic field amplitudes of the modes in the surface plasmon waveguide and dielectric waveguide respectively and is the real part of the propagation constant of the surface plasmon waveguide. For low loss surface plasmon waveguides the equivalent lossless surface plasmon structure may be used which includes an idealized core material that results in the same real effective index as the low loss surface plasmon structure for the same cladding and common cladding. This approximate technique is valid for the small loss. For coupling into large loss surface plasmon modes the coupling coefficient can be determined using a full vectorial finite difference magnetic field solver or another technique to solve for the supermodes of the dielectric waveguide and the lossy surface plasmon structure and their corresponding effective indices. The coupling coefficient is proportional to the difference in the supermode effective indices. For large loss surface plasmon modes the isolation and insertion loss may be determined from the supermode effective indices of the device and by propagating the supermode solutions for each value of the coupling coefficient.

The loss for a low loss surface plasmon waveguide is taken into account by attenuating the lossless surface plasmon mode as power is transferred from the dielectric waveguide into the surface plasmon mode. A perturbative analysis of the loss is shown in . These figures were generated by solving for the supermodes of an equivalent lossless surface plasmon waveguide having the same real index as the lossy surface plasmon mode separated from a dielectric waveguide by a common cladding. Increasing the loss of the surface plasmon waveguide indicates that the power transferred to the surface plasmon mode undergoes attenuation while the coupling length remains fixed.

Step . Choose the common cladding thickness necessary to achieve a given insertion loss specification by evaluating the coupling into the surface plasmon waveguide in the forward direction using coupled mode theory.

The design procedure described in is applied to an embodiment of the optical isolator depicted in . The optical isolator is fabricated using commonly available semiconductor fabrication techniques. An input guided mode at 1550 nm propagates through a dielectric waveguide in the forward direction. The dielectric waveguide can include an InP dielectric waveguide cladding an InGaAsP dielectric waveguide core and an InP common cladding with an effective index n. The surface plasmon waveguide can include an InP common cladding a thin film magnetic metal iron surface plasmon waveguide core and an air effective surface plasmon waveguide cladding such that an applied external magnetic field produces a nonreciprocal effective index n n in the forward and reverse directions respectively. In the forward direction modes in the dielectric waveguide and surface plasmon waveguide are phase mismatched n n and no coupling occurs resulting in a low insertion loss. In the reverse direction the modes in the dielectric waveguide and surface plasmon waveguide are phase matched n n and coupling into the lossy surface plasmon waveguide results in large isolation.

The design procedure depicted in is illustrated with representative parameter values below. The desired insertion loss is less than 3 dB and the desired isolation is greater than 30 dB. The nominal device length is approximately 50 m and the nominal device width is approximately 1.4 m. The dielectric waveguide cladding has a nominal thickness of approximately 1 m the dielectric waveguide core has a nominal thickness of approximately 0.5 m the common cladding has a nominal thickness of 0.9 m and the surface plasmon waveguide core has a nominal thickness of 0.1 m.

In Step of the design process shown in the effective index of the dielectric waveguide n is determined using a finite difference full vectorial magnetic field solver. One of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that other solver techniques can be used. The effective index of the dielectric waveguide is varied by changing the ridge width w.

In Step of the design process shown in the effective indices of the surface plasmon waveguide in the forward and reverse direction n n are evaluated by solving Maxwell s equations. The surface plasmon waveguide is designed such that the real part of its modal effective index in the reverse direction matches that of the dielectric waveguide Ren Ren . The effective index of the dielectric waveguide with width of 1.4 m and length of 50 m as determined in Step and shown in is n 3.25.

A plot of the effective index for the surface plasmon waveguide is shown in as a function of surface plasmon waveguide core iron film thickness. As illustrated in a surface plasmon waveguide core thickness of 100 nm produces the desired phase matching n n .

The magnetic field detuning parameter is shown in for a saturated magnetic field of B 0.17 Tesla. The detuning changes the effective index of the surface plasmon mode such that n n k where k 2 is the free space propagation constant.

The plot of the imaginary part of the effective index of the surface plasmon waveguide as a function of surface plasmon waveguide core thickness shown in illustrates that the mode undergoes attenuation during propagation and provides isolation in the reverse direction. This attenuation insures extinction of the mode that is coupled out of the dielectric waveguide into the surface plasmon waveguide .

In Step of the design process shown in the length of the surface plasmon waveguide required to fully couple from the dielectric waveguide into the surface plasmon waveguide in the reverse direction for a coupling strength determined by the thickness of the common cladding material is calculated. The role of the surface plasmon waveguide length in determining the isolation and insertion loss is described herein.

If the surface plasmon length is smaller than the coupling length L incomplete coupling from the dielectric waveguide mode into the surface plasmon mode occurs in the reverse direction. This effect is illustrated in where the normalized power in the forward and reverse directions are plotted for the lossless surface plasmon case and where and are the propagation constants of the surface plasmon waveguide and dielectric waveguide respectively. In the reverse direction and strong coupling into the surface plasmon waveguide occurs resulting in large isolation. In the forward direction and phase mismatch results in lower insertion loss.

The lossless case illustrated in suggests that the power can oscillate back and forth between the surface plasmon waveguide and the dielectric waveguide . However loss in the surface plasmon waveguide results in power absorption in the surface plasmon waveguide and decreased power transferred back into the dielectric waveguide . Simulation results for the lossless surface plasmon waveguide case are presented in and results for the lossy surface plasmon waveguide case are presented in .

The coupling length L 50 m remains fixed as the loss is increased while the number of oscillations of power transfer decreases as the surface plasmon waveguide absorbs the power. The simulations suggest that the design is robust to fabrication errors in the exact device length because lengths of the surface plasmon waveguide core metal film that are larger than the coupling length can still achieve the target isolation. Furthermore in the forward direction the insertion loss is not highly sensitive to the device length since the dielectric mode has a small evanescent tail extending into the surface plasmon waveguide core metal and a large phase mismatch prevents coupling. The large phase mismatch in the forward direction is a result of the detuning created by the externally applied magnetic field.

The surface plasmon waveguide length can be varied in the mask designs in order to optimize the coupling from the dielectric mode into the surface plasmon mode in the reverse propagation direction. A nominal coupling length of 50 m is expected from the simulation results. This length is an order of magnitude smaller than that of existing devices and is thereby favorable for dense integration.

In Step of the design process shown in the common cladding material thickness necessary to achieve a given insertion loss specification is determined by evaluating the coupling into the device in the forward direction using coupled mode theory. More specifically the surface plasmon coupling coefficient is optimized by varying the common cladding thickness. The coupling coefficient is a critical parameter in the nonreciprocal optical isolator as it determines the insertion loss and the coupling length.

The coupling length required to achieve isolation is inversely proportional to the coupling coefficient as expressed in Eq. 17 . In principle the coupling length can be decreased from the nominal 50 m design value. However the coupling coefficient and coupling length are constrained to satisfy the 3 dB insertion loss requirement.

The insertion loss is defined in terms of the transmission coefficient between any two points on a device. For the nonreciprocal optical coupling isolator the insertion loss in dB can be expressed as 

In evaluating Eq. 2 it is convenient to define a detuning parameter to measure the phase mismatch between the dielectric waveguide and the surface plasmon waveguide . The 3 dB insertion loss occurs at the half power point where the detuning parameter 2 . A plot showing the insertion loss in decibels as a function of the detuning parameter is shown in . The source of the detuning is the nonreciprocal change in the propagation constant of the magneto optic surface plasmon waveguide with an externally applied magnetic field. By increasing the separation between the dielectric waveguide and surface plasmon waveguide the coupling strength decreases and the ratio of increases. This weaker coupling results in a smaller insertion loss. As the detuning parameter is increased the insertion loss also decreases. This reflects the inefficient coupling between the dielectric waveguide and surface plasmon waveguide as the phase mismatch increases.

Consequently a 3 dB insertion loss is achieved by allowing 2 8 10. The dependence of on the common cladding thickness is presented in . The coupling coefficient is evaluated using coupled mode theory which agrees well with the supermode simulations shown in . For the desired coupling coefficient 2 8 10a minimum common cladding thickness of 900 nm is required to achieve a 3 dB insertion loss.

As shown in an optimized optical isolator can phase match in the reverse propagation direction with an applied saturated magnetic field Bfor the magnetic metal. Specifically the effective index of the surface plasmon waveguide equals that of the dielectric waveguide for a saturated magnetic field strength B 0.17 Tesla for iron. In the forward direction the saturated magnetic field can produce the largest phase mismatch through the relationship n n k.

For a sub optimal optical isolator design with the characteristic shown in the surface plasmon effective index matches the effective index of the dielectric waveguide for an applied magnetic field strength less than B. In the forward direction the phase mismatch for a saturated magnetic field n n k n is reduced by the phase mismatch in the reverse direction n n n. To correct for the suboptimal device performance the effective index of the dielectric waveguide can be reduced or the effective index of the surface plasmon waveguide mode can be increased.

The design procedure described in detail above produces an isolator with insertion loss less than 3 dB and isolation greater than 30 dB resulting in isolator strength of approximately 500. The nominal dimensions of the various optical isolator components are as follows. The nominal device length can be about 50 m and the nominal device width can be about 1.4 m. The dielectric waveguide cladding has a nominal thickness of approximately 1 m the dielectric waveguide core has a nominal thickness of approximately 0.5 m the common cladding has a nominal thickness of 0.9 m and the surface plasmon waveguide core has a nominal thickness of 0.1 m. The effective surface plasmon waveguide cladding is the ambient atmosphere and can take any positive value.

The surface plasmon waveguide core includes a surface plasmon waveguide core ridge . A surface plasmon waveguide input grating precedes the surface plasmon waveguide core and a surface plasmon output grating follows the surface plasmon waveguide core . As an example of frequency conversion an optical wave at a fundamental input frequency is coupled into the surface plasmon waveguide from an input dielectric waveguide by the use of the surface plasmon input grating . In the surface plasmon mode the phase velocities of the waves at the fundamental and second harmonic 2 frequencies are matched so that efficient second harmonic generation occurs. By tailoring the height and width of the surface plasmon waveguide core ridge on the surface plasmon waveguide core the effective index of the surface plasmon waveguide is designed to compensate for the material dispersion thus achieving phase matching for the desired NLO process while suppressing parasitic NLO processes. The converted second harmonic is coupled back into the dielectric waveguide using the surface plasmon waveguide output grating . A metal ridge formed on or from the surface plasmon waveguide core results in the phase matching geometry. The optical field intensities in the surface plasmon modes are much higher than those in traditional bulk and waveguide nonlinear optical devices resulting in much higher conversion efficiencies and extremely short device lengths. The higher second harmonic frequency 2 having the shorter wavelength is confined to the ridge while the lower fundamental frequency having the longer wavelength is guided by the waveguide core. This configuration allows the waveguide designer to adjust the waveguide core and waveguide ridge dimensions independently to match the nonlinear process. Coupling into and out of the surface plasmon waveguide from a dielectric waveguide can be accomplished using the grating techniques described here or by other methods such as evanescent coupling. In addition free space coupling can also be used to couple into and out of the surface plasmon waveguide using prisms e.g. the Otto or Kretschmann configuration or through the grating technique outlined here.

Different wavelengths can be generated in this way including the important optical telecommunications wavelengths near 1550 nm using different second order nonlinear frequency conversion processes including difference frequency generation sum frequency generation and second harmonic generation . In addition the phase matching technique can be applied to third order nonlinear interactions including but not limited to four wave mixing.

Step design the surface plasmon waveguide for the fundamental wavelength and evaluate the effective index of the surface plasmon waveguide for the interacting wavelengths n n n for a second order process or the interacting wavelengths n n n n for a third order process.

Step add a metal ridge of height h and width w centered on the surface plasmon waveguide metal core. Adjust the height h and the width w to phase match the nonlinear frequency conversion. For example for second harmonic generation the effective index of the combined structure must satisfy n 2 n .

Step design the input coupling section for the input wavelength s and the output coupling section for the frequency converted wavelength. Gratings or prisms can be used to couple in and out of the waveguides.

For example for a second order process such as sum frequency generation phase matching requires conservation of momentum. This results in k k k where k 2 n and i 1 2 3. For the special case of second harmonic generation and 2 momentum conservation results in n n . For the second harmonic generation case the height h and width w of the surface plasmon waveguide metal ridge are adjusted to match the effective indices at n and n of the surface plasmon waveguide. Since the smaller wavelength is mostly confined to the ridge adjusting the ridge dimensions primarily influences the smaller wavelength. In general the surface plasmon metal ridge and core can be adjusted to match the effective indices n to satisfy the phase matching constraint required to conserve momentum.

A variable current source is connected to the surface plasmon waveguide core metal. The propagation constant of dielectric waveguide is and the propagation of the surface plasmon waveguide is . Coupling occurs when these propagation constants are matched . Applying a current through the surface plasmon waveguide core conductive metal changes the propagation constant of the surface plasmon waveguide . The current generates a magnetic field which interacts with the magneto optic material of the surface plasmon waveguide cladding to produce a change in the propagation constant of the surface plasmon waveguide . is the change in propagation constant induced by a magnetic field .19.

For a current applied in the reverse direction the dielectric waveguide and the surface plasmon waveguide are phase matched resulting in power transfer from the dielectric waveguide to the surface plasmon waveguide . When the current is applied in the forward direction the induced magnetic field results in a phase mismatch condition 1.87 L where poor coupling occurs between the dielectric waveguide and the surface plasmon waveguide . Lis the coupling length for complete power transfer from dielectric waveguide to surface plasmon waveguide. The coupling length of the device is designed by choosing the appropriate spacing between the dielectric waveguide and the surface plasmon waveguide and is calculated using coupled mode theory.

Step design the real part of the surface plasmon effective index with the applied reverse current to match the effective index of the dielectric waveguide reversing the current results in a mismatch between the two waveguides.

The design methodology is similar to that used in the optical isolator. The main difference is that the low insertion loss is achieved for a reverse direction of the applied current while the attenuation is achieved for a forward direction of the applied current. The modulator can be designed for any two values of applied current I I . For a maximum current I the largest phase mismatch can occur for I I I. Designing the isolator for this detuning can result in a smaller device.

The disclosed modulator embodiment can be implemented in materials commonly used in the photonics and semiconductor industries. Another advantage of the disclosed modulator embodiment is the short length required for efficient modulation. For example the device length required in the Si SiOmaterial system is approximately 100 m which is at least an order of magnitude smaller than the approximately 1 to 10 mm lengths of commercially available modulators used in bulk optics applications. Since the magneto optic change in propagation constant is proportional to the field confinement the confinement of the surface plasmon waveguide can be further increased using different metal geometries such as the channel thereby allowing for an additional order of magnitude decrease in size.

For efficient coupling to occur the dielectric waveguide and surface plasmon waveguide are phase matched. In addition the surface plasmon mode and the dielectric waveguide mode constructively interfere over the coupling length of the device. For interference to occur the amplitudes must be the same or substantially the same. Since the surface plasmon mode has a loss rate denoted by the coupling rate equals the rate of loss i.e. . Physically this corresponds to the condition in which the transmissivity in both waveguides are equal 

Gold has a large ratio of the real to imaginary permittivity 93 11i indicating less ohmic loss in the surface plasmon mode. Iron has a large nonreciprocity at the expense of a large loss refractive index n 3.65 5.6i . The metal thicknesses can be selected to obtain a large nonreciprocity while decreasing the loss of the surface plasmon mode and to phase match the surface plasmon mode to the dielectric waveguide. For large separations between the waveguides the imaginary index of the surface plasmon mode is n 0.1 which is a factor of three smaller than the case of an iron surface plasmon mode without the use of the multilayer metal.

The use of a multilayer surface plasmon waveguide core permits the two waveguides to be brought into close proximity e.g. decreasing the common cladding thickness increases the coupling rate . illustrates the presence of the two supermodes absolute value indicating coupling between the plasmon mode and the dielectric waveguide for a common cladding thickness of 350 nm. The imaginary indices of the two supermodes meet each other at this common cladding thickness. Both of the imaginary indices are at one half of the value of the uncoupled surface plasmon mode. This indicates that the surface plasmon supermode has become less lossy while the dielectric waveguide supermode has increased its loss as the separation between the waveguides is decreased. This condition in which the imaginary indices are matched corresponds to the critical coupling condition in which both supermodes provide good interference and efficient coupling.

To simulate the mode propagation between the two supermodes a complex superposition of the supermodes can be constructed. For example the total magnetic field Hconsists of H cHse cHse where cand care the complex superposition coefficients to be determined and Hand Hare the two supermode amplitudes. The propagation constants and are related to the effective indices by i nk where k 2 and i 1 2 for supermode 1 and 2 respectively. The complex superposition coefficients c and care determined by the boundary condition. c cand the coordinate system are selected so that the power is concentrated in the dielectric waveguide at z 0. The boundary condition is satisfied as the mode begins in the dielectric waveguide. As the propagation distance is increased the power in the dielectric waveguide is transferred into the surface plasmon waveguide. By using a multilayer surface plasmon waveguide core the loss of the plasmon mode can be decreased by a factor of three as compared with a single layer .

Although various aspects of the disclosed method have been shown and described modifications may occur to those skilled in the art upon reading the specification. The present application includes such modifications and is limited only by the scope of the claims.

