---

title: Protein matrix for light-initiated electron transfer
abstract: The present invention provides selective modification of polypeptide sequences with electron transfer moieties. The resulting polypeptide assemblies represent a novel class of electron transfer complexes that are capable of transferring electrons over very long distances at fast rates. These complexes possess unique structural features which enable the production of bioconductors and photoactive probes.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08901069&OS=08901069&RS=08901069
owner: Research Foundation of The City University of New York
number: 08901069
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100419
---
This is a U.S. National Phase application under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Patent Application No. PCT US2010 031621 filed Apr. 19 2010 and claims the benefit of U.S. Patent Application No. 61 212 878 filed Apr. 17 2009 both of which are incorporated by reference herein. The International Application published in the English language on Oct. 21 2010 as WO 2010 121259 under PCT Article 21 2 .

Research and development leading to invention s described herein was supported at least in part under government Contract No. MCB 920448 awarded by the National Science Foundation. The United States government may have certain rights to the invention s pursuant to the terms of those contracts.

A Sequence Listing is submitted herewith pursuant to 37 C.F.R. 1.821 c as an ASCII compliant text file named SEQLST.txt which was created on Apr. 19 2010 and has a size of 9 941 bytes. The content of the aforementioned SequenceListing.txt file is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

This invention relates to the design of de novo electron transport polypeptides and to uses of these polypeptides for example as photoactive probes.

The development of renewable and environmentally benign energy sources has emerged as one of the most pressing challenges of the 21century. It has been estimated that increases in world population coupled with the rise of emerging economies will produce an increase in energy consumption from 13 TW today to 30 TW by 2050 Lewis et al. 2006 103 15729 . Given that 86 of this energy comes from fossil fuels and that COlevels are currently the highest they have been for the past 650 000 years it is clear that the burn rate that will be needed to sustain future energy requirements is unacceptable Herrero et al. 2008 252 456 468 .

Natural photosynthesis converts solar energy into chemical energy in a non toxic and highly efficient manner and has thus been studied for decades as a model for the creation of photo induced renewable energy devices. During photosynthesis absorption of light by phototrophic organisms initiates a series of electron transfer reactions that lead to the production of carbohydrates upon reduction of COand the oxidation of HO to O. The photosynthetic process can be described by the following formulae 2HO 4 O 4H 4 CO 2 2H CHO 2H 2 H

The photosynthetic protein apparatus which is a complex array of several membrane bound proteins self assembles absorbs most of the solar spectrum and has a quantum efficiency of greater than 98 conversion of photon energy to the desired reaction products. Artificial photosynthesis thus aims to harness energy from electron transfer events to drive the production of high energetic fuels such as Hand reduced forms of carbon Hay et al. 2004 101 17675 17680 .

Bio inspired systems linking organic molecules to synthetic matrix scaffolds have strived to recreate individual elements of the photosynthetic apparatus Fukuzumi et al. 2006 79 177 195 Kodis G. Terazono et al. 2006 128 1818 1827 . These integrated modular assemblies have provided a basis for constructing molecular devices fashioned on nanoscale materials which position the active elements at fixed distances to transform photonic energy into vectorial electron transfer Alstrum Acevedo et al. 2005 44 6802 6827 Meyer et al. 1989 22 163 170 . However the synthetic based systems that have been constructed to date are expensive to prepare synthetically challenging and their production is often damaging to the environment Coakley et al. 2004 16 4533 4542 . For these reasons the prior art constructs are not feasible for commercial application.

Hence there is a pressing need for a simple robust solar energy conversion device with the scale and complexity of natural systems such as the photosynthetic reaction center that can be constructed in an efficient environmentally friendly and cost effective manner.

An object of the invention is to provide at least a partial solution to the above described problems and or disadvantages in the prior art by providing a protein based photovoltaic construct that is green robust has high light conversion and efficiency and is ready for integration into more complex assemblies.

Accordingly a first embodiment of the present invention is directed to an isolated polypeptide capable of binding at least two electron transfer moieties wherein the electron transfer moieties are arranged so that electron transfer can occur between at least two electron transfer moieties.

A second embodiment of the present invention is directed to an isolated polypeptide capable of binding at least three electron transfer moieties selected from an electron donor a primary electron donor and an electron acceptor wherein the primary electron donor is positioned between the electron donor and the electron acceptor and wherein the electron transfer moieties are arranged so that electron transfer can occur between each of the electron transfer moieties.

A third embodiment of the present invention is directed to a photovoltaic assembly comprising a charge separation domain covalently linked to a matrix wherein the charge separation domain comprises an isolated polypeptide capable of binding at least three electron transfer moieties selected from an electron donor a primary electron donor and an electron acceptor wherein the primary electron donor is positioned between the electron donor and the electron acceptor and wherein the electron transfer moieties are arranged so that electron transfer can occur between each of the electron transfer moieties.

Additional advantages objects and features of the invention will be set forth in part in the description which follows and in part will become apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art upon examination of the following or may be learned from practice of the invention. The objects and advantages of the invention may be realized and attained as particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

It is understood that the invention s described herein is are not limited to the particular methodologies protocols cell lines vectors polypeptides and reagents described as these may vary. For example polypeptide sequences of this invention include variant polypeptides i.e. polypeptides which may differ in amino acid sequence by one or more substitutions additions deletions truncations which may be present in any combination. It is also to be understood that the terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope of the present invention. Rather the invention will be limited only by the appended claims and any equivalents to which they are entitled.

Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art to which this invention belongs. Any methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention. However the methods devices and materials described herein are generally prepared. All publications including all patents patent applications and other patent and non patent publications cited or mentioned herein are incorporated herein by reference for at least the purposes that they are cited including for example for the disclosure or descriptions of methods and materials e.g. proteins and or other polypeptides vectors reagents etc. which may be used in the invention. Nothing herein is to be construed as an admission that a publication or other reference including any reference cited in the Background of the Invention section alone is prior art to the invention or that the invention is not entitled to antedate such disclosure for example by virtue of prior invention.

The skilled artisan will appreciate that the numerical values presented herein are approximate values. Generally unless otherwise indicated terms such as about and approximately include within 20 of the values indicated more preferably within 10 and even more preferably within 5 .

The present invention provides selective modification of polypeptide sequences with electron transfer moieties. The resulting polypeptide assemblies represent a novel class of electron transfer complexes that are capable of transferring electrons over very long distances at fast rates.

In one embodiment the invention provides an isolated polypeptide capable of binding at least three electron transfer moieties selected from an electron donor a primary electron donor and an electron acceptor wherein the primary electron donor is positioned between the electron donor and the electron acceptor and wherein the electron transfer moieties are arranged so that electron transfer can occur between at least two electron transfer moieties.

Unless otherwise stated the term polypeptide or protein or grammatical equivalents thereof have the same meaning and refers to a peptide comprising two or more amino acids. The polypeptides of the present invention can encompass naturally occurring proteins non natural artificial proteins as well as those which are recombinantly or synthetically produced. The term amino acid refers to naturally occurring and non natural amino acids as well as amino acid analogs and amino acid mimetics that function in a manner similar to the naturally occurring amino acids. Naturally encoded amino acids are the 20 common amino acids alanine arginine asparagine aspartic acid cysteine glutamine glutamic acid glycine histidine isoleucine leucine lysine methionine phenylalanine proline serine threonine tryptophan tyrosine and valine and pyrolysine and selenocysteine. Amino acid analogs refers to compounds that have the same basic chemical structure as a naturally occurring amino acid for example an carbon that is bound to a hydrogen a carboxyl group an amino group and an R group. Such analogs may have modified R groups for example norleucine or may have modified peptide backbones while still retaining the same basic chemical structure as a naturally occurring amino acid.

Amino acids may be referred to herein by either their name their commonly known three letter symbols or by the one letter symbols recommended by the IUPAC IUB Biochemical Nomenclature Commission. Additionally nucleotides may be referred to by their commonly accepted single letter codes.

In one embodiment the polypeptide of the invention comprises about 2 to about 1000 amino acid residues. In another embodiment the polypeptide comprises about 15 to about 700 or 20 to about 500 or about 25 to about 250 or about 50 to 200 or about 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 105 110 115 120 125 130 135 140 145 150 155 160 165 170 175 180 185 190 or 200 amino acid residues.

In a preferred embodiment a polypeptide of the invention may be a multimer polypeptide i.e. a polypeptide comprising a plurality of polypeptide chains and having at least one amino acid sequence that may be the same or different from the amino acid sequence of at least one other polypeptide monomer. Preferred polypeptide multimers are dimers and tetramers having two and four polypeptide chains respectively. The dimer or tetramer polypeptides may be homodimers or homotetramers respectively having polypeptide chains that are identical to the other polypeptide chains in the homodimer or homotetramer. Alternatively the dimer or tetramer polypeptides may be heterodimers or heterotetramers respectively having polypeptide chains that are different from the other polypeptide chains in the heterodimer or heterotetramer.

In another preferred embodiment a polypeptide of the invention is a monomer i.e. a polypeptide having a single polypeptide chain.

In another embodiment the polypeptide of the invention is a non natural protein i.e. an artificial protein that does not naturally exist in nature.

The terms electron donor electron acceptor and electron transfer moieties or grammatical equivalents thereof refer to molecules capable of electron transfer under certain conditions. The primary electron donor preferably functions in the polypeptide by donating an electron to an electron acceptor. The electron acceptor preferably functions by accepting an electron from an electron donor. In one embodiment of the invention the electron donor donates an electron to the primary electron donor. It is to be understood that electron transfer and acceptor capabilities are relative that is a molecule which can lose an electron under certain experimental conditions will be able to accept an electron under different experimental conditions. Those skilled in the art of electron transfer compounds will be familiar with and be able to utilize a number of such compounds in the present invention. Preferred electron transfer moieties include but are not limited to metal complexes including transition metal complexes organic electron transfer moieties and electrodes.

In one embodiment of the invention the electron transfer moieties are transition metal complexes. Transition metals are those whose atoms have an incomplete d shell of electrons. Suitable transition metals for use in the invention include but are not limited to scandium Sc cadmium ytterbium Y titanium Ti zirconium Zr vanadium V tantalum Ta chromium Cr molybdenum Mo tungsten W manganese Mn technetium Tc rhenium Re iron Fe ruthenium Ru osmium Os cobalt Co rhodium Rh iridium Ir Ni palladium Pd platinum Pt copper Cu silver Ag and gold Au . Other suitable metals include but are not limited to zinc Zn cadmium Cd magnesium Mg or any metal from the periodic table that is capable of forming a metal complex. Preferred metals are zinc iron ruthenium and osmium. Particularly preferred metals are zinc and iron.

The metals may be complexed with a variety of ligands to form suitable metal complexes as is well known in the art. Suitable ligands include but are not limited to NH pyridine pyrazine corroles chlorophylls chlorins isonicotinamide imidazole bipyridine and substituted derivative of bipyridine phenanthrolines and substituted derivatives of phenanthrolines such as 4 7 dimethylphenanthroline dipyridophenazine 1 4 5 8 9 12 hexaazatriphenylene 9 10 phenanthrenequinone diimine 1 4 5 8 tetraazaphenanthrene 1 4 8 11 tetra azacyclotetradecane diaminopyridine pyrene buckminsterfullerene and porphyrins and substituted derivatives of the porphyrin family such as phthalocyanine and derivatives of phthalocyanine such as napthalocyanines.

Preferred metal complexes for use in the invention include but are not limited to Zinc II phthalocyanines ZnPCs and analogs thereof other metal bound porphyrins such as ferric heme chlorophyll corphins and cobalamin 2 iron 2 sulfur and 4 iron 4 sulfur clusters and ferrocenes. Zinc II phthalocyanines and ferric heme are particularly preferred metal complexes for use in the invention.

In particular phthalocyanines have long been proposed as ideal molecules to act as primary donor cofactors in artificial light powered devices due to their chemical robustness relative to chlorophyll and porphyrin derivatives ease of synthesis and long wavelength action spectrum De la Tone et al. 2007 2000 2015 Rawling et al. 2007 251 1128 1157 . Phthalocyanines exhibit high molar absorptivity B bands with maxima at near infrared wavelengths of 650 nm and above and are thus ideal for solar energy conversion. The chemical structure for zinc phthalocyanine is depicted below 

In spite of their advantages phthalocyanines have had very little translation into practical systems because they are highly susceptible to self association and form stacked columnar aggregates with poor photophysical properties Schutte et al. 1993 97 6069 6073 . Efforts to isolate monomeric forms of phthalocyanines i.e. referenced in the art as splendid isolation Brewis et al. 2000 4 460 464 have failed to inhibit the progressive accumulation of stacked phthalocyanines because the cofacial stacking interaction is highly thermodynamically stable. Thus an object of the present invention is to provide a polypeptide assembly which will bind phthalocyanines in isolation so that the advantageous features of the monomeric electron donor can be exploited.

In addition to metal complexes other organic electron donors and acceptors may be covalently attached to a polypeptide for use in the invention. These organic molecules include but are not limited to flavin mononucleotide flavin adenine dinucleotide riboflavin xanthene dyes azine dyes acridine orange N N dimethyl 2 7 diazapyrenium dichloride methylviologen ethidium bromide quinones porphyrins varlamine blue B hydrochloride Bindschedler s green 2 6 dichloroindophenol 2 6 dibromophenolindophenol Brilliant crest blue 3 amino 9 dimethyl amino 10 methylphenoxyazine chloride methylene blue Nile blue A aminoaphthodiethylaminophenoxazine sulfate indigo 5 5 7 7 tetrasulfonic acid indigo 5 5 7 trisulfonic acid phenosafranine indigo 5 monosulfonic acid safranine T bis dimethylglyoximato iron II chloride induline scarlet neutral red and substituted derivatives of these compounds.

In another embodiment the electron transfer moieties are redox proteins. As used herein a redox protein is a protein that binds electrons reversibly. Redox proteins may contain for example prosthetic groups such as flavins or NAD. Proteins such as thioredoxin which lack prosthetic groups and use for example reversible formation of a disulfide bond between two cysteine residues are also encompassed by the term redox protein in the present invention. The flavoprotein phthalate dioxygenase reductase PDR a NADH dependent redox protein is a preferred electron transfer protein of the present invention Sevrioukova et al. 1996 35 7058 7068 Gassner et al. 1994 33 12184 12193 Gassner et al. 1995 34 13460 13471 and Correll et al. 1992 258 1604 1610 . Other non limiting examples of redox proteins include other flavoprotein reductases and lactate dehydrogenase.

In another embodiment of the invention the electron transfer moiety is not a redox protein. In other words the polypeptide in this embodiment of the invention is not bound or in association with another polypeptide that can undergo electron transfer.

The present invention is directed in part to the site selective modification of polypeptides with redox active moieties for preparation of biomaterials capable of long distance electron transfer. In one embodiment the present invention provides for precise placement of electron transfer donor and acceptor moieties at predetermined sites of an isolated polypeptide that is substantially pure and free of other protein components. The isolated polypeptide is designed in such a way so that the electron donor primary electron donor and electron acceptor are held at appropriate distances and orientations for electron transfer between each of the bound electron transfer moieties.

In one embodiment the polypeptide of the present invention is any polypeptide that can bind at least two electron transfer moieties such that electron transfer occurs between the at least two electron transfer moieties. Such a polypeptide may include for example a protein composed of helical bundles in a native like structure with internal cofactor binding sites.

In another aspect of the invention the polypeptide comprises a four helical bundle scaffold wherein electron transfer moieties are bound between pairs of parallel helices. Such a polypeptide may be designed for example using binary patterning of helices with a simple alternating pattern of hydrophilic and hydrophobic helix forming residues to impose tetramerization via hydrophobic sequestration Wei et al. 2003 12 92 102 Kamtekar et al. 1993 262 1680 1685 .

In another aspect of the invention the parallel helices are separated by an amino acid loop sequence. In another aspect of the invention the loop sequence is rich in glycine and serine amino acid residues.

The invention further provides the following polypeptide sequences or fragments or variants thereof and the corresponding polynucleotide sequence encoding these peptides 

In one embodiment of the invention at least one electron transfer moiety is attached to the polypeptide via a covalent bond. Methods for covalent attachment of small molecules to polypeptides are well known by those of ordinary skill in the art Dieterich et al. 2007 2 532 540 . In one aspect of the invention the electron transfer moiety is attached to the polypeptide via a thioether bond. In another aspect of the invention the electron transfer moiety is covalently bound using click chemistry Dieterich et al. 2007 2 532 540 .

In another embodiment of the invention the electron transfer moiety is attached to the polypeptide via a metal ligand interaction as well known in the art. In one embodiment a metal cofactor is bound to an amino acid side chain of the polypeptide. In another embodiment the metal site of a metal cofactor complexes with an imidazole nitrogen of a histidine amino acid Koder et al. 2006 25 3045 3051 Huang et al. 2004 101 5536 5541 .

In another embodiment the polypeptide of the present invention can bind at least two electron transfer moieties in such a way so that electron transfer can occur between each of the electron transfer moieties. In this embodiment the polypeptide provides an edge to edge distance between each electron transfer moiety that is preferably in the range of about 0 to about 100 . In other embodiments the preferred edge to edge distances between each electron transfer moiety are in the range of about 0 to about 50 more preferably about 1 to about 25 and more preferably about 2 to about 10 with specific distances of about 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 and 10 being particularly preferred.

In another embodiment the polypeptide can bind at least an electron donor a primary electron donor moiety and an electron acceptor moiety in such a way so that the primary electron donor is positioned between the electron donor and the electron acceptor and so that electron transfer can occur between each of the electron transfer moieties. In this embodiment an edge to edge distance between the electron donor and the primary electron donor is in the range of about 0 to about 15 where specific distances of about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 or 15 are preferred and distances of between about 3 4 5 6 7 are more preferred. Generally an edge to edge distance between the electron donor and primary electron donor of about 5 is particularly preferred. In another embodiment an edge to edge distance between the primary electron donor and the electron acceptor is in the range of about 0 to about 15 where specific distances of about 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 or 15 is preferred and distances of about 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 are more preferred. Generally an edge to edge distance between the primary electron donor and the electron acceptor of about 8 is particularly preferred.

In another embodiment the edge to edge distance between the electron donor and the primary electron donor may be smaller than equal to or greater than the distance between the primary electron donor and the electron acceptor.

In another embodiment electron transfer between the electron transfer moieties is facilitated by modulating the reduction potential of the electron transfer moieties. For example in one preferred embodiment of the invention the donor is in a reduced state and the acceptor is in an oxidized state. In another embodiment the reduction potential of the primary electron donor is higher than the reduction potential of the electron donor and the reduction potential of the electron acceptor is higher than the reduction potential of the primary electron donor. In anther embodiment the donor cofactor has a lower reduction potential than the acceptor. In another preferred embodiment the difference in net reduction potential between the electron transfer moieties is in the range of about 0 to about 5 V where a reduction potential difference of about 0 to about 2V is preferred and a range of about 0.015 and about 1 V is more preferred and specific reduction potential differences of about 0.01 0.05 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 and 0.5 V are particularly preferred.

In another aspect of the invention the electron transfer moieties are arranged in a charge separated state. In another aspect the charge separated state comprises a cationic electron donor and an anionic electron acceptor. In yet another aspect of the invention the anionic and cationic charges are separated over a distance within the range of about 0 to about 50 where a range of about 5 to about 40 is preferred more preferably about 10 to about 30 and still more preferably about 15 to about 25 . Specific preferred charge separation ranges include about 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 and 25 . In another embodiment the charge separation distance may be at least about 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 or 25 .

In another aspect of the invention the electron transfer is vectorial electron transfer that is electron transfer that occurs in a directional fashion. For example in one aspect of the invention an electron may propagate from a primary electron donor to a first electron acceptor and then to a second electron acceptor in an extended electron transfer chain.

In another aspect of the invention electron transfer is initiated when a primary electron donor is excited by light such as for example infrared ultraviolet and visible light. Selection of the appropriate wavelength for electron excitation is governed by the specific primary electron donor and can be easily determined by the skilled artisan. For example ZnPC can be excited at about 675 nm Zn hemin can be excited at about 430 nm Zn chlorin can be excited at about 645 nm and Zn naphthocyanine can be excited at about 775 nm.

In an alternate embodiment electron transfer between the electron transfer moieties can be indirect utilizing electron transfer mediators which are free in solution or imbedded in a matrix. For example an electron transfer mediator used in the present invention may include but is not limited to ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid EDTA methyl viologen and benzylviologen.

In another embodiment electron transfer is initiated by attachment of the polypeptide to a solid support such as an electrode. In one embodiment the electrode serves as either an electron donor or acceptor. Electrode attachment allows for electron transfer via an applied potential for electronic methods or electron transfer monitoring.

In another aspect of the invention the polypeptide assembly is further attached to at least one electrode to create photovoltaic cells. In another aspect of the invention the polypeptide assembly is placed in membranes. In yet another aspect of the invention the polypeptide assembly is used to drive redox reactions such as the hydrolysis of water.

An exemplary polypeptide assembly of the present invention is depicted in . As shown in the inventive polypeptide may comprise PDR flavin domain that is fused to a polypeptide charge separation domain where a first electron donor D1 a primary donor PD a first electron acceptor A1 and a second electron acceptor A2 are positioned in the charge separation domain in such a way as to enable electron transfer between the electron transfer moieties. The charge separation domain may be configured as a 4 helix polypeptide bundle of two parallel alpha helical domains that are joined via a disulfide bond linkage. The charge separation domain is covalently bound to a PDR flavin domain on the donor end of the charge separation polypeptide.

Without being bound by any particular theory or mechanism of the invention a mechanism for electron transfer in a three component charge separation device is shown in . Upon photoexcitation the primary donor transfers and electron to the first acceptor molecule. Before unproductive charge recombination via back electron transfer can occur the donor transfers an electron to the primary donor blocking the back reaction and . Thus the electron that was transported to the first electron acceptor is free to propagate down the electron transfer chain to the second electron acceptor as illustrated in .

The fully charge separated state principally relaxes back to the ground state by one of the two mechanisms presented in . The charge separated state can either undergo direct long range tunneling between the donor and acceptor molecules arrow I in or a two step recombination process can occur where an equilibration between the charge separated state and the D PD A intermediate occurs followed by tunneling from the acceptor to the ground state. This alternate mechanism is illustrated by arrow II in .

The following examples serve to more fully describe the manner of using the above described invention as well as to set forth the best modes contemplated for carrying out various aspects of the invention. It is understood that these examples in no way serve to limit the true scope of the invention but rather are presented for illustrative purposes.

Peptide synthesis reagents were purchased from PerSeptive Biosystems Foster City Calif. . Solid phase peptide synthesis was performed on a continuous flow PerSeptive Biosystems Framingham Mass. peptide synthesizer as described Fuziwara et al. 2002 91 515 526 Choma et al. 1994 116 856 865 . Crude peptides were purified to homogeneity by reversed phase CHPLC with aqueous acetonitrile gradients containing 0.1 vol vol trifluoroacetic acid.

HP 1 SEQ ID NO 5 the first polypeptide in the series was rationally designed using the principles of binary patterning with the ligand histidines placed at internal positions between helical pairs to form the binding site Huang et al. 2004 101 5536 5541 . In short the HP 1 SEQ ID NO 5 peptide structure was based on the x ray crystal structure of the apomaquette L31M derived from the structurally heterogeneous tetraheme binding H10H24 prototype. Heme insertion was modeled with angular constraints statistically derived from natural proteins and the pattern of hydrophobic and hydrophilic residues on each helix was altered to account for structural reorganization Huang et al. 2004 101 5536 5541 .

The HP 1 SEQ ID NO 5 helical sequence was then modified in a stepwise manner to enable structural analysis by introducing amino acid resides known to increase NMR chemical shift dispersion. The resulting protein was homotetrameric polypeptide HP 6 SEQ ID NO 6 .

The HP 6 SEQ ID NO 6 polypeptide was modified to include a connectivity sequence to afford the homodimeric helix loop helix variant HP 7 SEQ ID NO 7 . HP 7 SEQ ID NO 7 was prepared by recombinant expression in isotopically labeled in as a fusion protein with a TEV protease cleavage site.

It is observed that two HP 7 SEQ ID NO 7 polypeptides can dimerize to form a HP 7 HP 7 4 helical bundle . The HP 6 peptide SEQ ID NO 6 and other peptides described herein which contain two helical domains also dimerize to form 4 helical structures. The dimerized peptides may be connected via for example covalent attachment using a disulfide bond to form a single 4 helical polypeptide.

Characterization of HP 7 SEQ ID NO 7 by NMR demonstrates a stepwise molten globule to native like transitioning in this protein where the structure of each helix in the polypeptide that donates a ligand to the heme cofactor was found to exhibit native like motif. As shown in prior to cofactor binding the HP 7 SEQ ID NO 7 polypeptide is a molten globule protein as evidenced by the lack of chemical shift dispersion in the N HSQC spectrum . When one equivalent of heme is added two of the helical domains of the polypeptide transition to a native like state while the remaining two unligated helices remain in the molten globule form . Upon addition of the second heme equivalent HP 7 SEQ ID NO 7 transitions to a 4 helical bundle native like structure.

The native state motif transition is also observed when the HP 7 SEQ ID NO 7 polypeptide is coordinated to other structurally distinct cofactors such as tetraphenylporphyrins bacteriochlorophylls and Heme A Koder et al. 2006 128 14450 14451 .

In spite of the structural disparity between the HP 1 SEQ ID NO 5 and HP 7 SEQ ID NO 7 polypeptides where over 40 of the helical residues were mutated on the polypeptide surface each peptide exhibits the same molten globule to native like structural transition upon the addition of a cofactor.

These data demonstrate that binary patterning coupled with appropriate positioning of ligand residues allows for creation of a native like structure in proteins with bound cofactors. As demonstrated below the HP 7 SEQ ID NO 7 polypeptide may serve as a precursor for a charge separation domain of the present invention.

In Example 2 the reduction potential of the peptides prepared in Example 1 is regulated by modulation of peptide ionic charge and cofactor structure. The net charge of the polypeptides is calculated using conventional methods known in the art.

Modification of surface amino acid residues in HP 1 SEQ ID NO 5 to afford the HP 7 SEQ ID NO 7 polypeptide produces an increase in anionic character of the polypeptide. In particular HP 1 SEQ ID NO 5 exhibits a near neutral net charge whereas HP 7 SEQ ID NO 7 is highly anionic. At pH 7 the calculated net charge of the HP 7 SEQ ID NO 7 homodimer is 15.6.

Such a change in ionic character of the polypeptides influences the reduction potential of bound cofactors. For example in earlier experiments HP 7 heme complex exhibits a reduction potential that was 45 mV more positive than the reduction potential of the HP 1 heme complex.

Specific Glu Ala mutations in the HP 7 peptide produce an alternate peptide referred to here as CC 9 SEQ ID NO 8 . The CC 9 peptide shown in the table below 

The CC 9 SEQ ID NO 9 polypeptide exhibits a 101 mV increase in bound heme reduction potential compared to the HP 7 SEQ ID NO 7 polypeptide. These data are shown in .

Further as demonstrated in the reduction potential of the polypeptide system can also be controlled using the cofactor alone. Three distinct ferric cofactors bound via a bis histidine ligation to HP 1 SEQ ID NO 5 exhibited a reduction potential difference spanning approximately 400 mV.

These data demonstrate cofactor reduction potential is effectively modulated by the cofactor identity and by regulation of amino acid electrostatics.

This example describes an investigation of the rotameric distribution of heme bound histidine side chains for isolation of rotamer dependent helical sequence preferences which provide optimal side chain cofactor packing interactions for each rotamer. The optimal sequence templates predict high affinity porphyrin binding sites in the inventive helical polypeptides.

A highly nonredundant subset of the protein databank is analyzed to determine a rotamer distribution for helical histidines bound to heme cofactors. Analysis of the entire nonredundant database for helical sequence preferences near the ligand histidine demonstrates little preference for amino acid side chain identity size or charge Cowley et al. 2006 45 9985 10001 . However when the database is subdivided by ligand histidine rotamer a strong preference for the following consensus sequence is revealed 

The HP 7 polypeptide SEQ ID NO 7 from Example 1 is modified to incorporate the preferred consensus sequence to produce a polypeptide referred to herein as CC 10 SEQ ID NO 10 . An additional polypeptide designated H7F SEQ ID NO 11 is prepared based on a His Phe mutation of the HP 7 SEQ ID NO 7 polypeptide. The structure for these peptides are shown below 

As shown in the binding affinities of heme for the HP 7 SEQ ID NO 7 and CC 10 SEQ ID NO 10 polypeptides may be determined by titration of reduced heme into an anaerobic protein solution poised at 

While the present invention is not limited to any particular theory or mechanism of action it is noted that heme binding can be modeled as a two step process as illustrated in where the heme first binds in a pentacoordinate manner and then the second histidine ligand binds to the cofactor . The rate constant of the second step k was calculated to quantitate the distal histidine coordination equilibrium . The histidine off rate k is estimated by limiting the rate of carbon monoxide binding to the ferrous protein complex at high carbon monoxide concentrations . The HP 7 H7F peptide is thus calculated to have a limiting value of 1.4 s whereas the CC 10 H7F dimer is found to be 15 fold slower at 0.09 s. The histidine off rate k i.e. the rate at which histidine dissociates from the polypeptide was determined by performing the CO ferrous heme complex and flashing the ligand off with light. Analysis of the rebinding kinetics using the method described by Hargrove et al. Hargrove et al. 2000 79 2733 2738 Kundu et al. 2003 50 239 248 demonstrated that CC 10 H7F has a histidine on rate that is 3 fold faster than HP 7 H7F.

In this example a two cofactor binding protein with one bis histidine heme binding site and one mono histidine ZnPC binding site is prepared. In particular a four helix single chain polypeptide designated HF SEQ ID NO 2 was constructed by connecting the gene for CC 10 SEQ ID NO 10 to the gene for His7 Phe CC 10 mutant separated with a GGSGSGSGG SEQ ID NO 17 connecting loop. The full sequence of the HF polypeptide SEQ ID NO 2 is provided below 

In this Example a protein construct of the phthalate dioxygenase reductase PDR flavin domain is prepared for conjugation to the inventive polypeptide assembly. A truncated form of PDR illustrated in is engineered to produce a gene which lacks the iron sulfur domain to create a TEV protease cleavable Histagged construct. The PDR construct was expressed purified and cleaved using standard methods to produce a folded flavoprotein capable of reacting with NADH. Such a construct may be fused to the polypeptide electron transfer domain of the present invention.

A short peptide loop sequence for appending a PDR moiety to an electron transfer polypeptide assembly of the present invention is described. The loop sequence is designed to minimize the distance between the PDR and electron transfer polypeptide moiety and to maintain the structure and function of the connected domains.

A single HP 7 SEQ ID NO 7 polypeptide monomer is fused to the PDR domain using the variable peptide loop sequences identified below 

PDR HP 7 chimeras connected by the variable peptide loop sequences are mixed with free HP 7 SEQ ID NO 7 . The ferric heme cofactor is then added to promote cofactor mediated binding of the PDR HP 7 construct with the free HP 7 SEQ ID NO 7 to produce a two cofactor PDR HP 7 HP 7 assembly. A native gel is run to screen for heterodimer assembly in the presence and absence of the cofactor. As illustrated in the PDR HP7 construct prepared with the Loop 2 SEQ ID NO 13 sequence affords the highest concentration of the PDR HP7 HP7 heterocomplex. Accordingly Loop 2 SEQ ID NO 13 is identified here as an optimal loop length.

The initial electron transfer step of the HF SEQ ID NO 2 polypeptide described in Example 4 is examined in this example. As described above the HF SEQ ID NO 2 polypeptide is designed to bind a zinc II phthalocyanine ZnPC primary donor and a heme acceptor cofactor. The two cofactors are held in this polypeptide at an edge to edge distance of about 8 .

Electron transfer rates and yields are measured by time resolved absorption spectroscopy with a Johnson Foundation spectrometer using well established techniques Li et al. 1998 37 2818 2829 Li et al. 2000 39 7445 7454 Li et al. . 2000 64 41 52 Xu et al. 2000 104 8035 8043 Xu et al. 2002 41 10021 10025 Madeo et al. 2005 44 10994 11004 . A 10 ns Nd YAG laser Continuum Surelite 2 is used to provide the actinic flash. Frequency doubling allowed for excitation at 532 nm which is near the absorbance max of the bound ZnPC B band. Reactions are followed using a continuous Quartz Tungsten Halogen measuring lamp from 390 to 1000 nm 50 ns to 100 s and 275 to 340 K and single wavelength studies are centered at the reduced Soret peak maximum 421 nm and the oxidized Soret maximum 421 nm for the heme cofactor. The delay time between the actinic and probing light is controlled with a digital time delay pulse generator Stanford Research system DG535 and the system is capable of determining lifetimes 0.1 s. For examining reactions at temperatures above 0 C. a jacketed cuvette is attached to a circulating water bath.

Since phthalocyanines suffer from oxygen quenching Ogunsipe et al. . 2004 28 822 827 the above experiments are performed anaerobically in special glassware Dutton et al. 1978 54 411 435 with solutions that are initially degassed by repeated cycles of vacuum evacuation and flushing with argon. Residual oxygen is removed by the addition of glucose glucose oxidase and catalase Berg et al. 1980 19 3186 3189 .

As described above the HF polypeptide SEQ ID NO 2 is capable of binding a ZnPC primary donor and a heme acceptor cofactor. The HF polypeptide SEQ ID NO 2 may additionally be combined with a covalently attached C type heme as an electron transfer donor resulting in a three cofactor helical bundle where the three polypeptide binding sites target a specific cofactor using a distinct binding mechanism.

In order to add a third heme molecule to the polypeptide assembly each helix of the HF polypeptide SEQ ID NO 2 may be extended by specific amino acids which provide addition of a bis histidine binding site for the third cofactor which is bound between diagonal helices rather than by adjacent helices. Ghirlanda et al. 2004 126 8141 8147 A model of this protein will be created computationally which is comprised only of the helical backbone atoms and amino acid side chains will be selected according to the principles of binary patterning with hydrophobic residues placed into the protein core and hydrophilic residues placed at surface exposed sites. A heme cofactor can then be covalently attached to the new bis histidine binding site.

The third cofactor may be attached to the new binding site by covalent attachment in vivo during protein expression. For example in vivo C heme attachment can be carried out by co transfecting expression bacteria with pEC86 a plasmid which contains the entire cytochrome C maturation apparatus Arslan et al. 1998 251 744 747 . The domain may be cloned into the pMAL p2 vector New England Biolabs which can express the domain as a fusion with maltose binding protein containing a periplasmic targeting tag. The target protein can then be isolated using standard methods.

One possible sequence for the third cofactor binding site is AXXACXACHXXLA SEQ ID NO 15 which contains a CXXCH SEQ ID NO 16 recognition sequence where X is any amino acid recognized by the cytochrome C maturation apparatus. Another helix from which the distal histidine will originate may retain the optimized CC 10 SEQ ID NO 10 polypeptide sequence. Remaining residues can be selected using binary patterning and the above described heme binding site analysis in combination with conventional knowledge of the bicomplex structure. Cofactor binding structural specificity and complex stability can be assessed using the methods described above Wei et al. 2003 12 92 102 Kamtekar et al. 1993 262 1680 1685 .

A three cofactor polypeptide prepared as described in Prophetic Example 1 can be fused to a PDR domain to provide efficient vectorial electron transfer. For example the three cofactor system prepared as described in Example 8 can be attached to the PDR construct of Example 5 using the optimized loop sequence described in Example 6 by ligation independent cloning Chiu et al. 2004 32 .

Such a fused construct can be examined using anaerobic equilibrium NADH titrations Koder et al. 2002 41 14197 14205 . In short concentrated NADH solutions may be anaerobically titrated into a 20 30 M solution of the construct. The construct can initially be loaded with heme B at the acceptor site. The stoichiometry of heme and flavin reduction as a function of the amount of added NADH can be assessed spectrophotometrically. Formed constructs can then be examined using stopped flow kinetic analysis.

Light driven directional electron transfer of a PDR polypeptide assembly can be measured by flash spectroscopic analysis. In equilibrium anaerobic titrations a PDR polypeptide construct of the invention will only reduce the heme cofactor proximal to the PDR domain resulting in a visible spectrum showing the flavin mononucleotide semiquinone radical one reduced heme and one oxidized heme along with the ZnPC B band spectra. Light filtered to 600 nm may be directed into a cuvette containing a solution of the construct using a fiber optic cable and time dependence of the appearance of a second reduced heme follow by re reduction of the flavin mononucleotide with excess solution NADH assessed spectrophotometrically.

The system may be further analyzed by time resolved absorption spectroscopy. Such experiments allow for determination of electron transfer rates for two electron transfers the electron transfer from the flavin semiquinone to the proximal heme and the re reduction of the phthalate dioxygenase reductase flavin cofactor by solution NADH.

The charge separation distance i.e. the distance between an cationic electron transfer moiety and an anionic electron acceptor moiety can be extended to at least 30 to provide a prolonged charge separation lifetime by adding a second electron acceptor moiety to the acceptor side of the polypeptide assembly described in Prophetic Example 2. Each helix can be extended by three heptads to accommodate an additional cofactor binding site. For example a bis histidine binding site can be added at a 10 distance from the first electron acceptor in the assembly. Such a construct can be recombinantly expressed purified and assembled as described above. Structural characterization can be achieved by NMR spectroscopy.

