---

title: System and method for revealing hidden information in electronic documents
abstract: Methods, systems and computer readable medium allow a user to open an electronic document in one of various applications while revealing hidden information, without having to know or execute manual steps or procedures to reveal the hidden information. A user interface of a reveal hidden information application is displayed, the user interface displaying a list of one or more native applications each of which is associated with an electronic document type. An input is received selecting a first native application from the list, and one or more hidden information types are displayed corresponding to the selected native application. Settings for the hidden information types corresponding to the first native application are received. Using the first native application, an electronic document whose document type corresponds to the first native application is then displayed with hidden information revealed/not revealed in accordance with the settings.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09514112&OS=09514112&RS=09514112
owner: Navigant Consulting, Inc.
number: 09514112
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101104
---
The subject application generally relates to systems and methods for revealing hidden information in electronic documents.

Electronic documents produced on computers often include information that may not be visible to an end user when the document is opened. This hidden information may include hidden rows or columns in a chart track changes in a document hidden comments or versions hidden worksheets metadata concerning a document objects that are formatted as invisible presentation notes etc. By way of further example hidden information or data in word processing documents can include author and business organization names print and save dates names initials of persons who have reviewed edited and or saved a document and the directory path where a document is saved on a local or network drive. Because this information is hidden people often are not aware that such information is present in a document or that when a document is sent to others such information can be revealed by recipients.

A document is typically opened in the original application in which it was created. For example a Microsoft Word document may be created and saved in a .doc or .docx format and will typically be opened using Microsoft Word or a compatible program. However it may be difficult for a user to reveal all hidden information in such a program so that it may be reviewed. For example to reveal hidden information a user may have to go to one or more menus to manually select one or more types of hidden information to be revealed. To reveal hidden text and comments a user must be aware of the two different dropdown menus needed to reveal the hidden text and the hidden comments and then go to the two different drop down menus and make appropriate menu selections e.g. by selecting unselecting check boxes . This task becomes even more difficult when the user is reviewing documents in multiple different native formats e.g. a word processing format and a spreadsheet format and these formats have different types of hidden information and revealing these different types of hidden information requires different steps or procedures to be performed.

Lexis LAW PreDiscovery allows users to convert electronic documents from a native format to a TIFF Tagged Image File Format format. After a user has selected to convert an electronic document to the TIFF format a selection of the types of hidden information to be revealed can be made only. The converted document is then saved in the TIFF format and can be opened in an application able to open TIFF documents such as a TIFF viewer application.

Aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein relate to systems and methods of revealing hidden information in electronic documents.

The term application in the disclosed embodiments refers to a program designed for end users of a computing device such as a word processing program a database program a spreadsheet program and the like. An application is distinct from systems programs which consist of low level programs that interact with the computing device at a very basic level such as an operating system program a compiler program a debugger program programs for managing computer resources and the like. This patent application describes an application for revealing hidden information. This application for revealing hidden information can be used with other applications examples of which include but are not limited to spreadsheet applications e.g. Excel Lotus and the like word processing applications e.g. Word WordPerfect and the like presentation applications PowerPoint and document management applications e.g. Acrobat from Adobe Systems Incorporated .

 Hidden information includes any information that is not visible to a user when an electronic document is opened. The hidden information may include information that is intentionally or unintentionally hidden in the electronic document by the user. For example a user may format text as hidden or format text as white text on a white background. The hidden information may further include information that is hidden by an application the electronic document is created in modified in or otherwise opened or used in whether or not the user knows of such hidden information. The hidden information may also include information that is hidden by a computerized device or a network that the electronic document is stored in created in modified in or otherwise opened or used in whether or not the user knows of such hidden information. Hidden information may include information that has been selected to be revealed through manual steps e.g. where manual selection has been made to reveal text formatted as hidden . Microsoft provides information its Office program suite identifying data such as the following which may be hidden in documents created in its Word Excel and PowerPoint application programs user s name user s initials user s company or organization name the name of the user s computer the name of the network server or hard disk where the user saves the document other file properties and summary information non visible portions of embedded OLE objects the names of previous document authors document revisions document versions template information hidden text or cells personalized views and comments. These types of hidden information or data are provided by way of example and without limitation and the systems and methods described herein may be used to reveal these and other types of hidden information.

The above described hidden information can be difficult or confusing for a user to find and or reveal. For example electronic documents created in applications may include information that a user may want to review but some or all of the information may be hidden when the user opens the electronic document. A user may need to review this hidden information to determine if it should be removed before sending the electronic document to another person or organization for example.

Further a user may want to review an electronic document created by another person or organization and see all hidden information in the electronic document. Often such hidden information may be manually revealed e.g. by making manual menu selections but may require the user to know steps or procedures that the user needs to perform in the application that allow such hidden information to be manually revealed. Further each application may have different types of hidden information and revealing these different types of hidden information may require different steps or procedures to be performed within the respective application. This problem is made even worse when a user is working with electronic documents created in different applications and each application has multiple different types of hidden information each requiring different steps or procedures be executed to reveal the hidden information.

The systems and methods described herein allow a user to open an electronic document in one of various applications while revealing hidden information without the user having to know or execute manual steps or procedures to reveal the hidden information within the respective applications. In one example a hidden information settings user interface displays a list of user selectable applications. A user selects one of the applications and one or more hidden information types are displayed corresponding to the selected application. The user then selects which types of the hidden information to reveal. For example the user may make selections via check boxes radio buttons drop down Lists text boxes and the like. Thereafter electronic documents opened in the selected application are displayed in accordance with the user selections.

The reveal hidden information application allows a user to easily reveal hidden information in electronic documents native to a plurality of different applications. The reveal hidden information settings user interface allows a user to select from a plurality of different applications and for each application be presented with choices of all the hidden information types for that application. The user does not have to know of all the different types of hidden information for each application since they are presented to the user in the interface. Further the user does not have to know how to manually reveal each of the types of hidden information but can instead just select from the interface the types of hidden information the user wants to reveal.

As described in greater detail below while in the reveal hidden information application a user may select hidden information types for a word processing application and for a spreadsheet application and thereafter when the user opens an electronic document in the word processing application or the spreadsheet application hidden information corresponding to the selected hidden information types selected in the reveal hidden information application is revealed.

Processor may include at least one conventional processor or microprocessor that executes instructions. The processor may be a general purpose processor or a special purpose integrated circuit such as an ASIC and may include more than one processor section. Additionally the system may include a plurality of processors .

Memory may be a random access memory RAM or another type of dynamic storage device that stores information and instructions for execution by processor . Memory may also include a read only memory ROM which may include a conventional ROM device or another type of non volatile storage device that stores information and instructions for processor . The memory may be any memory device e.g. semiconductor memory that stores data for use by system and may comprise a non transitory computer readable medium having encoded therein instructions for revealing hidden information in an electronic document.

Input output devices I O devices may include one or more conventional input mechanisms that permit a user to input information to the system such as a microphone touchpad touch screen keypad keyboard mouse pen stylus voice recognition device buttons etc. and output mechanisms such as one or more conventional mechanisms that output information to the user including a display note that display is separately shown one or more speakers a storage medium or storage media such as a semiconductor memory device a magnetic optical or magneto optical device disk drive a printer device etc. and or interfaces for the above. The display may typically be an LCD or CRT display as used on many conventional computing devices or any other type of display.

The system may perform functions in response to processor by executing sequences of instructions or instruction sets contained in a computer readable medium such as for example memory . Such instructions may be read into memory from another a storage device or from a separate device via a communication interface or may be downloaded from an external source such as the Internet. The system may be a stand alone system such as a personal computer or may be connected to a network such as an intranet the Internet or the like.

The memory may store instructions that may be executed by the processor to perform various functions. For example the memory may store instructions to allow the system to perform various functions in association with a particular application such as display or manipulation of electronic documents.

The system may also include a keyboard functioning as an input device. The keyboard may be replaced or supplemented by the input devices as illustrated and described in conjunction with . The keyboard may be a stand alone device or may be integrated in one device with the computer .

Display functions as an output device for displaying images generated or received by the computer corresponding to display shown in . The display may display images to be viewed by a user such as various application programs a user interface UI text photographic images or the like. For example the display may display a user interface or electronic documents in response to instructions stored in memory . An application and or instructions could also be stored in a memory that the computer is connected to such as in a network server or a portable memory connected to the computer .

The system may be connected to a network such as such as an intranet the Internet a wireless network a phone network or the like. In addition the system may be connected to a plurality of displays such as display . The plurality of displays may be of a same display type or of varying display types.

The user interface may be invoked by a user in a variety of ways and displayed on display . For example illustrates a portion of a user screen that may be displayed on display . When the reveal hidden information application program is running on computer it may display a tray icon in a tray area of the screen. When a user selects the tray icon such as by a right click or a left click with a mouse selection box is displayed. The selection box includes various selections that a user may choose including Modify Settings which upon selection by the user causes user interface to be displayed. The selection box also includes Open Document with reveal hidden information application and Enable Auto reveal hidden information .

As illustrated in instructions loaded into the memory and executed by the processor may also cause display of a toolbar on a screen of the user s display which may be in addition to the tray icon . The toolbar may include a hidden information settings icon which when selected by a user causes the user interface to be displayed. The toolbar may also include a reveal document icon discussed further below.

The Excel formatting user interface is displayed when a user selects the formatting selection for Excel from the user interface as illustrated in . The Excel formatting user interface includes a plurality of selectable attributes of an Excel electronic document that will affect how the electronic document is displayed when opened with the reveal hidden information application program. Some of the selectable attributes will function to reveal hidden information in an Excel electronic document including at least the hidden data types for revealing hidden headings hidden rows hidden sheets hidden columns hidden tabs and hidden scrollbars. Additionally other ones of the selectable attributes may reveal hidden information such as the illustrated remove filters reset all text to black clear all shading unprotect sheets and unlock cells. The illustrated hidden information types are only examples and other hidden information types could be used.

Others of the selectable attributes may not reveal hidden information but may instead affect how the Excel electronic document is displayed. For example the user may select a zoom setting autofit rows and columns override horizontal or vertical alignment remove split frozen panes remove empty rows or columns and the like. The user can select revert to defaults to revert to default settings of the Excel formatting user interface . Once the user selects the selectable attributes including those that unhide information in an electronic spreadsheet document selection of the ok button will save the settings for Excel electronic documents and close the Excel formatting user interface . The user can at any time change the selectable attributes by opening the Excel formatting user interface and selecting the selectable attributes as desired.

The Excel program defaults user interface is displayed when a user selects the program defaults selection for Excel from the user interface as illustrated in . The Excel program defaults user interface includes program defaults selections which are selectable by a user and at least some of which function to reveal hidden information in an Excel electronic document when selected such as show formulas not calculated values and show gridlines. The Excel program defaults user interface also includes a force comments view dropdown which when selected provides the user with various selections to force display of otherwise hidden comments or indicators including the choices of no comments or indicators indicators only and comments on hover or comments and indicators.

The Word formatting user interface is displayed when a user selects the formatting selection for Word from the user interface as illustrated in . The Word formatting user interface includes a plurality of selectable formatting selections at least some of which function to reveal hidden information for a Word electronic document displayed when opened with the reveal hidden information application program.

The formatting selections include set view type display revisions and comments unhide text and remove header footer . The Word formatting user interface also includes a revert to defaults which will cause all settings on the Word formatting user interface to revert to default settings of the formatting selections and an ok selection which will save all selected settings on the Word formatting user interface .

The selectable choices under display revisions and comments when selected cause otherwise hidden information to be revealed in a Word electronic document including revisions comments and users from track changes. The unhide text when selected causes otherwise hidden text text formatted as hidden text to be revealed in a Word electronic document. The illustrated hidden information types are only examples and other hidden information types could be used.

The PowerPoint formatting user interface is displayed when a user selects the formatting selection for PowerPoint from the user interface as illustrated in . The PowerPoint formatting user interface includes hidden information types formatting selections which include unhide slides unhide shapes and objects and force notes view and when selected cause otherwise hidden information to be revealed in a PowerPoint electronic document. The illustrated hidden information types are only examples and other hidden information types could be used.

The PowerPoint formatting user interface also includes a revert to defaults which will cause all settings on the PowerPoint formatting user interface to revert to default settings of the formatting user interface and an ok selection which will save all selected settings on the PowerPoint formatting user interface .

The Acrobat formatting user interface is displayed when a user selects the formatting selection for Acrobat from the user interface as illustrated in . The Acrobat formatting user interface includes hidden information types set page mode which include pages panel optional content bookmarks panel and attachments panel and when selected cause otherwise hidden information to be revealed in an Acrobat electronic document. In particular these hidden information types can cause a pages panel optional content a bookmarks panel and or an attachments panel to be revealed in an Acrobat electronic document. The ok selection saves all selected settings on the Acrobat formatting user interface . The illustrated hidden information types are only examples and other hidden information types could be used.

An electronic document is illustrated in . The electronic document may be a Word electronic document. The electronic document includes information that may be displayed on a display device such as text information and . The electronic document also includes hidden information in this case at three different locations.

The hidden information in the electronic document may be revealed on a display of a device such as computer having loaded into its memory the reveal hidden information application. The hidden types of information in the example electronic document are hidden text and hidden comments and track changes although other types of hidden information could be included. A user may reveal the hidden information in document by selecting the unhide text and final showing markup of display revisions and comments selecting ok of . The document may be opened in the reveal hidden information application which may be done by selecting open document with reveal hidden information or selecting the reveal document icon and then selecting to open electronic document . Alternatively or selecting enable auto NativeReveal may be enabled in which case any documents opened in an application having corresponding hidden information types saved for that native application will automatically be opened with any hidden information corresponding to the selected hidden information types revealed not revealed in dependence on the user selections made via the example menus shown in .

An electronic document is illustrated in . The electronic document includes revealed information from electronic document illustrated in including track changes information and hidden text and and comments .

An electronic document is illustrated in . The electronic document may be an Excel electronic document. The electronic document includes information that may be displayed on a display device and includes hidden information. The hidden information may be a hidden column D which may include data calculated by hidden formulas.

The hidden information in the electronic document may be revealed on a display of a device such as computer having loaded into its memory the reveal hidden information application. A user may reveal the hidden information in document by selecting the unhide columns from selectable attributes of and selecting show formulas not calculated values from program defaults of selecting ok and opening the document using the reveal hidden information application as described above.

An electronic document is illustrated in . The electronic document includes revealed information from electronic document illustrated in unhidden column information in column D and formulas and calculated values .

The reveal hidden information application allows a user to select from one interface hidden information types for hidden information that the user wants to reveal in electronic documents native to each of a plurality of different applications. When an electronic document native to one of the applications is opened using the selected hidden information types the reveal hidden information application may open the electronic document create a modified version of the electronic document with the hidden information revealed not revealed in accordance with the user s selections and then forward the modified electronic document to the native application to be opened and displayed to the user with the hidden information revealed.

Alternatively the reveal hidden information application could function such that when an electronic document native to one of the applications is opened using the selected hidden information types the reveal hidden information application passes the reveal not reveal settings made using the above described menus to the native application e.g. via an application programming interface so that the document is displayed in the native application in accordance with these reveal not reveal settings. Unless the document is saved after being opened with the passed reveal not reveal settings the settings in the electronic document may revert to their original settings when the electronic document is closed.

The reveal hidden information application will temporarily save the modified version of the electronic document so that it may be displayed by the native application and the modified version of the electronic document may be purged after it is closed in the native application. If a user wants to save a copy of the modified version of the electronic document with the hidden information revealed a user can select to save as when the modified version of the electronic document is open in the native application. Changes made to the modified electronic document will not be made to the original document.

A flowchart of a method of revealing hidden information in an electronic document is illustrated in . This method may be performed by processor executing instructions stored in memory . In step a user may activate the user interface of the reveal hidden information application as described above. In step a user interface of the reveal hidden information application is displayed the user interface displaying a list of one or more native applications each of which is associated with an electronic document type. In step user input is received of a first native application from the list.

In step one or more hidden information types corresponding to the selected one of the applications are displayed. In step settings for the hidden information types corresponding to the first native application are received. In step an electronic document whose document type corresponds to the first native application is displayed using the first native application with hidden information revealed not revealed in accordance with the settings.

The disclosed embodiments have been illustrated using electronic documents native to certain applications and illustrated with certain hidden information types. However the methods and systems may be utilized with other applications and other hidden information types. For example electronic documents often have hidden metadata or other hidden information not specifically illustrated herein and the systems and methods disclosed and claimed herein are usable any other hidden information types or with other applications.

The described systems methods and techniques may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of these elements. Apparatus embodying these techniques may include appropriate input and output devices a computer processor and a computer program product tangibly embodied in a non transitory machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor. A process embodying these techniques may be performed by a programmable processor executing a suitable program of instructions to perform desired functions by operating on input data and generating appropriate output. The techniques may be implemented in one or more computer programs that are executable on a programmable system including at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data and instructions from and to transmit data and instructions to a data storage system at least one input device and at least one output device. Each computer program may be implemented in a high level procedural or object oriented programming language or in assembly or machine language if desired and in any case the language may be a compiled or interpreted language. Suitable processors include by way of example both general and special purpose microprocessors. Generally a processor will receive instructions and data from a read only memory and or a random access memory. Non transitory storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include all forms of computer memory including but not limited to non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EPROM Electrically Erasable Programmable Read Only Memory EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and Compact Disc Read Only Memory CD ROM . Any of the foregoing may be supplemented by or incorporated in specially designed ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

The processing system circuitry described in the specification e.g. processor is programmed to control the revealing of hidden information or data in electronic documents in accordance with the logic described in this specification. One of ordinary skill in the art will therefore recognize that for example a processing system including at least one CPU when executing instructions in accordance this logic operates as programmed logic circuitry to perform the operations defined by the logic.

While the methods system and computer readable medium have been described in connection with what are presently considered to be the most practical and preferred embodiments it is to be understood that the such are not to be limited to the disclosed embodiments but on the contrary are intended to cover various modifications and equivalent arrangements included within the spirit and scope of the technology. Also the various embodiments described above may be implemented in conjunction with other embodiments e.g. aspects of one embodiment may be combined with aspects of another embodiment to realize yet other embodiments. Further each independent feature or component of any given assembly may constitute an additional embodiment.

