---

title: Populating documents with user-related information
abstract: One or more techniques and/or systems are disclosed for generating a document pre-populated with user-based information. A user's authorized social network can be mined for user-based information. The user-based information mined from the user-authorized social network can be added to a document template at locations in the template of one or more information identifiers in order to generate the pre-populated document. The one or more information identifiers can be used to identify the user-based information on the user authorized social network.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09652447&OS=09652447&RS=09652447
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09652447
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101207
---
Social networks are used by online users to share information with people and other entities. The social network user can typically choose who to share the information with sometimes broadcasting the information across all connections or limiting the sharing a desired set of contacts. Further the social network user can provide a plurality of information that is stored by the social network such as the user s identification contact information updates comments images documents activities and as much or as little else as may be desired. These social networks are becoming increasingly important and popular and are changing the way people share information with others. The sharing and collaborative creation of information in the form of typical common business type documents e.g. word processing spreadsheets presentation documents etc. is not used by social networks however and the traditional behavior of emailing document files is instead the dominant form of sharing of such content.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

There is an abundance of data stored by social networks that may be relevant to certain types of documents but there is not a simple way to import the data from the social network into a document using existing tools. For example when a user creates a document that comprises their name contact information and or other relevant information e.g. education and employment for a resume they usually have to retrieve the information from a source and enter it into a document template or one created from scratch.

Currently a user may create a document template that comprises relevant information and use this template to generate the desired document. However the document is limited to merely that template and if the relevant information changes the template is no longer useful and or the user may have to re enter the information. Further there are no current tools that allow the user to import relevant data over a variety of document templates for example where the type of data is constant but the actual information may change e.g. the user s contact related information images documents etc. .

Accordingly one or more techniques and or systems are disclosed that allow users to generate documents of various types that are pre populated with data pulled from their social networks. For example the data might include items from their profile friends profiles groups they are part of etc. After document creation and perhaps edits by the user the document might be shared with other users via private messaging published social network stream entry and or uploaded to a cloud based storage that provides access to the user s contacts such as for collaboration and or interaction with the document for example.

As an example starting from a document template that contains text formatting graphics formulas etc. relevant data can be imported on behalf of a user from a social network such as by using one or more application programming interfaces APIs . The data can be used to populate various fields in the template resulting in creation of a new pre populated document. Optionally for example the user may utilize typical editing tools to further customize the document and then share the document with other users of the social network.

In one embodiment for generating a document pre populated with user based information user based information can be added to a document template at locations of one or more information identifiers in the document template to generate the pre populated document. The user based information added to the template can correspond to the one or more information identifiers and is retrieved from a user authorized social network.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

A method may be devised that provides for creating a document from a template that is pre populated with information a user may normally need to add to the document such as contact information user profile information background information and or other details that are not typically included in a template and or may change periodically. For example one or more of the user s social networks can be mined for user based information and the mined information can be populated into the template to provide the pre populated document. Further as an example the pre populated document may be shared with the user s one or more social networks such as by sharing e.g. messaging posting sharing in newsfeed a link to the document or uploading it to the social network.

As an example an abundance of user related data may be stored by one or more social networks of a user. Often a user s social network may comprise the user s name contact information e.g. email phone number instant message contact address etc. education history employment history images documents and other relevant information that the user may upload as well as similar information for the user s social network contacts and or groups with which they may be associated. This information may be accessed for example and automatically e.g. programmatically plugged into a document template that comprises indicators corresponding to the relevant information.

As an illustrative example a document template can be created such as a resume template for a word processing application. A resume typically includes the user s name contact information education history and employment history. In this example the document template can comprise information indicators at locations where the relevant information may be typically found in a document. An example name information indicator may be and an example address information indicator may be . In this example these indicators can be found at the locations in the template such as document fields where a user may typically insert this information in the document such as the resume.

Further in this illustrative example the information that corresponds to the information indicators can be retrieved from one or more of the user s social networks such as those that have been authorized by the user for collection of such information. An authorized social network may be mined for the information that corresponds to the indicators in the template and retrieved for example. The retrieved user related information can then be filled into the appropriate fields in the template and the pre populated document is generated for example where the pre populated resume has the user s name and contact information as well as their education and employment history in the appropriate locations in the document for example. As an illustrative example the user may provide additional edits to the documents and publish it as needed.

At the user can be prompted to provide authorization information for accessing the social network. For example when a user accesses a social network the site hosting the social network typically prompts the user to provide a login authorization e.g. username and password unless the login information is saved on the user s client machine . In one embodiment the user can provide the authorization information so that the social network site can be contacted and accessed on behalf of the user.

At the authorization information can be used to connect with the user authorized social network such as by accessing an application programming interface API used to interface with the social network. For example a client machine used by the user for generating the document can be connected to the Internet and this connection may be used e.g. by an application that generates the document to connect with the API to interface with the social network. As another example a remote service e.g. remote to a user s client machine providing document services may be connected to the Internet and use this connection to interact with the social network.

At a type of user based information can be identified. For example a document template can comprise information identifiers which are associated with corresponding user based information. In one embodiment the information identifiers in the document template can be used to facilitate identification of the corresponding user related information in the user authorized social network. As an example an information identifier may correspond to an image that the user uploaded to the social network for use as their profile image. In this example the user based information type can comprise an image and may further comprise the user s profile image.

In one embodiment the information identifier may comprise an extension that can facilitate identification of the user based information type. For example the information identifier comprises the extension jpg which corresponds to a JPEG image file. As an illustrative example user based information may comprise images text formatting graphics programming code and or other types of information that may be inserted into a template to generate a pre populated document where information of an image may be chosen for insertion into a template for example where an image related identifier such as jpg is identified for example.

In one embodiment the interface API may be used to facilitate identifying the user based information type. As an example the interface API can use the information identifier to identify a corresponding user based information type on the user authorized social network. At a location of the corresponding user based information can be identified on the user authorized social network. In one embodiment the interface API may be used to find the location for the corresponding user based information.

At the appropriate user based information can be retrieved from the user authorized social network. In one embodiment retrieving the user based information can comprise pulling the user based information from the user authorized social network. For example the user based information can be pulled from an identified location on the social network such as a remote storage server associated with the social network using the interface API. In another embodiment the retrieving the user based information can comprise requesting the user based information from the user authorized social network such as by sending a request to or using the interface API. In this embodiment the user based information can be received from the user authorized social network in response to the request.

At the user based information retrieved from the social network can be added to the document template . In one embodiment adding the user based information to the document template can comprise filling a section of the document template tagged by the information identifier with the user based information. For example the information identifier can tag or mark a field in the document template that can be filled by the user based information. As an illustrative example a field where a user may insert their education history may be tagged by an identifier . Similarly a profile image of the use may be inserted at a location tagged by an identifier 

At the pre populated document can be generated using the user based information filled into the document template such as filled into the fields marked or tagged by the information identifiers. The resulting pre populated document can comprise a format that the user can edit and or publish for example. In one embodiment the pre populated document can be generated in a format that provides for interacting with the pre populated document online without a client side application specific to the document format. For example the user may generate the document in a format that uses a specific application which may not be available to other users interested in viewing and or collaborating on the document. In this embodiment for example a platform agnostic format may be provided such as using a web based document platform that allows other users to view and or collaborate on the document without having to load the specific application onto their respective client devices.

At creating the document template can comprise identifying information in the origin document that may be used for populating with the user related information. For example the origin document can comprise fields that may be filled in with specific user related information such as name address etc. In this example the fields in the origin document can be identified. At the location of the information fields can be identified in the origin document and information identifiers can be inserted at the identified locations in the origin document at .

At the pre populated document can be created as described above using the document template. In this example embodiment at the pre populated document can be posted such as by the user. In one embodiment the pre populated document can be posted to the user authorized social network. Posting the pre populated document can comprise using a social network application programming interface API to broadcast a link for example to the pre populated document over the social network at . In this way for example the pre populated document may be delivered to a desired audience e.g. connections other users etc using the social network.

As an illustrative example in an example embodiment of a document template can be created such as for a resume. In this example the document template comprises information fields tagged with respective information identifiers contact info education and employment . Further the user authorized social network may be mined for the corresponding user related information and the pre populated document can be created. In this example the pre populated document comprises the user related information populated in the information fields at the corresponding locations.

In one embodiment the API may be used to post to a user s stream in the social network at . For example social networks typically allow a user to update their status and or provide commentary on something of interest to the user. In this example the user may select the pre populated document for sharing in the user s stream of the social network such as a newsfeed or blog. In another embodiment the API may be used for messaging to one or more connections in the user authorized social network where a message comprises a link to the pre populated document at . As an example a message can be created that comprises a link to the pre populated document and the user can send the message to one or more desired contacts.

In another embodiment the user can post the pre populated document by making the document accessible to one or more connections in the user authorized social network at . For example the user may upload the pre populated document to a cloud based server. In this example some social networks allow for users to make the saved document accessible to other users such as by authorizing desired users to view and or interact with a shared directory or folder comprising the file. In this way for example the user is able to provide the pre populated document to as many other users as they wish e.g. on the user s client and or a remote server .

In one embodiment when generating the pre populated document the document can be created in a format that provides for interacting with the pre populated document online without a client side application specific to the document format. For example as described above the pre populated document can be posted for interaction by desired users. However not all of the desired users may have an application available on their client that allows for interaction with the document e.g. a particular word processing application . In this embodiment for example the pre populated document can be posted to an Internet based service that allows users to view and interact with the document without having the supporting application resident on their machines e.g. a web based word processing service .

A system may be devised for pre populating document with user desired information that may not be included in a template document. User related information may be mined from one or more of the user s social networks and the mined information can be populated into the template to provide the pre populated document for example using such a system. Further as an example the system may be used to share the pre populated one or more of the user s social network contacts such as by sharing e.g. messaging posting sharing in newsfeed a link to the document and or uploading it to the social network.

In one embodiment the document e.g. the document template and or the pre populated document can comprise a word processor based document a spreadsheet based document a presentation based document an image editor based document a form based document an organizer application based document and an email based document. Further in one embodiment the document template can comprise an open extensible markup language format e.g. open XML and the information identifiers can comprise a markup tag . The markup tag may identify a location in the template to populate with the user based information and identify the user based information e.g. an information field for filling with the user related information .

In the example embodiment an abstraction layer component can be used to interface the system with the user authorized social network . For example the abstraction layer component can comprise an application programming interface API provided for interacting with the social network. Further the abstraction layer component can be used to identify a location of the user based information on the user authorized social network and identify a type of user based information on the user authorized social network. For example the API may be able to match the type of information called for by the markup tags in the document template and find the location of the corresponding user based information in the social network .

A document interaction component can provide a client agnostic platform for interacting with the pre populated document online. For example the client agnostic platform may comprise an online service that allows the user s connections to view and or interact with the pre populated document without having to load a document specific support application to their client machine. A sharing component can interact with the user authorized social network to broadcast an access to the pre populated document over the user authorized social network . For example the sharing component can provide a link to the pre populated document in a user s social network stream message and or upload.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method such as at least some of the exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as at least some of the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

