---

title: Distributed load edge clamp
abstract: An arrangement for clamping a flat plate to a flat surface includes juxtaposing the plate to the flat surface. An axially-movable wedging element defining a surface fitted with wedges is fixed against motion in other than a direction of elongation, and is forced to move in the direction of elongation. The wedges are forced against a first spring beam to impart forces thereto. The forces are coupled from the first spring beam to a second spring beam by intermediary supports. The second spring beam bears against a surface of the flat plate to force the plate against the flat surface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08240648&OS=08240648&RS=08240648
owner: Lockheed Martin Corporation
number: 08240648
owner_city: Bethesda
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100928
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 864 033 filed Sep. 28 2007. The entire disclosure of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 864 033 is incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under Contract Grant N00024 99 9 5386 NTW Radar . The United States Government has a non exclusive non transferable paid up license in this invention.

This invention relates to provision of even clamping pressure between flat objects and more particularly to providing such even pressure between a heat generating item and a heat sink or cold plate.

Temperature is a well known cause of degraded performance and or failure in electronic devices. When vacuum tubes were in widespread use the heat generate by such devices as color television receivers tended to raise internal temperatures to the point that various electronic elements such as resistors would cook and change value and sockets for the vacuum tubes if made from organic material such as phenolic would char and in some cases disintegrate.

With the advent of semiconductors and other solid state devices the amount of heat produced by an electronic device tended to be less than in vacuum tube equipment. However while the amount of heat produced by a solid state apparatus may be less per device than in a vacuum tube apparatus the number of solid state devices and their packing density can be so great that temperature related problems are exacerbated.

Various methods have been used to control the temperature of solid state devices. In any situation in which undesired heat is produced by a device the heat must be taken away by a low thermal resistance path. Since heat flows from a region at a given temperature only to a region at a lower temperature the number of options for temperature abatement are limited. When discrete packaged semiconductors were in widespread use a thermally conductive large surface area heat sink could be attached to the case of the semiconductor to increase the effective surface area of the case in order to provide a low thermal resistance path from the high temperature semiconductor to lower temperature ambient air. The art of heat sinks became elaborate especially as applied to cased microcircuits such as microprocessors.

Another technique for helping to control the maximum temperature of semiconductors in a heat producing circuit is to connect a flat portion of the case of the circuit by means of a thermally conductive path to a thermally conductive cold plate. Those skilled in the art know that a cold plate is not necessarily cold to the touch and needs only to be cold relative to the item to be cooled. One such arrangement with a cold plate is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 316 719 issued Nov. 13 2001 in the name of Pluymers et al. Ideally a single such circuit is to be temperature controlled and the broad side of the circuit plate can be affixed to the cold plate as by screws or adhesive.

In some cases it is necessary to provide a relatively large number of heat producing circuits within a defined region. Such a situation occurs in the case of active array antennas where the operating frequency and antenna beam characteristics tend to determine the inter circuit spacing of the associated active circuits. In some cases the active circuits may be only low noise amplifiers. In such cases the heat density of the array of active elements may be relatively low. When however the active circuits include transmitter functions as in the case of an active array antenna for a radar system a large amount of heat may be generated within each active circuit and the active circuits may be in close proximity. Perfect solutions to temperature control of the active circuits under such conditions have not been found.

One solution to the problems of temperature control in the high packing density radar active array context is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 469 671 issued Oct. 22 2002 in the name of Pluymers et al. In this arrangement a plurality of transmit receive modules are arrayed on each of a plurality of generally planar heat conducting baseplates of a line replaceable unit. The heat producing modules are mounted along an edge of the baseplates facing the antenna array. This arrangement is effective but may be costly and some embodiments may undesirably not have all the electronic devices on the line replaceable unit but on the underlying frame.

Another way to cool solid state devices is by use of a coolant fluid which transfers heat by convection to a heat sink. Such a scheme is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 013 997 issued May 7 1991 in the name of Reese. This arrangement has the advantage of reducing stress on the heated element but may not be useful in the case of line replaceable units. Another scheme for the use of a coolant fluid is described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 459 474 issued Oct. 17 1995 in the name of Mattioli et al. In this arrangement the electronic modules associated with the elements of an array antenna are mounted behind the array on slide in carriers so the electronic modules can be exposed. The electronic modules transfer heat by a thermally conductive path to a cold plate and a flow of coolant fluid transfers heat away from a cold plate. This arrangement is effective in maintaining the cold plate temperature but does not improve the transfer of heat from the heat producing modules to the cold plate. The fluid connections may be difficult to connect and disconnect and may leak under some conditions. U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 640 445 filed Aug. 13 2003 in the name of Pluymers now U.S. Pat. No. 7 717 470 issued May 18 2010 describes a coolant fluid quick connect arrangement which tends to reduce spillage under certain conditions.

An arrangement is described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 388 317 issued May 14 2002 in the name of Reese in which a flow of coolant is provided to support elements immediately underlying the solid state chip which is the source of heat. This arrangement is very effective in heat transfer but requires a fluid path for each chip which in turn requires plumbing for each chip and may be expensive. The fluid paths if numerous provide many locations at which leakage can occur.

A method according to another aspect of the invention is for clamping a generally planar object to a planar surface. The method includes juxtaposing the planar object to the planar surface. An elongated wedging element including a plurality of wedges along its length is fixed against motion in directions other than the direction of elongation of the wedging element and is forced to move axially in the direction of elongation. Each of the wedges bears against a corresponding first spring beam in a direction orthogonal to the direction of elongation in response to the axial motion in the direction of elongation of the wedging element to thereby impart force to the first spring beam. The forces imparted to the first spring beam are coupled by intermediary supports to a second spring beam and from the second spring beam to the generally planar object to force the generally planar object into contact with the planar surface.

A method for extracting heat from a replaceable module including a plate having a straight exposed edge region according to an aspect of the invention comprises the step of placing a first side of the edge region adjacent a surface of a fixed generally planar cold plate. A clamping element elongated in a direction of elongation is placed between a second side of the edge region and a generally straight fixed object. The clamping element includes an elongated spring element having protrusions spaced apart by a pitch distance and also includes an elongated wedging element including a plurality of individual wedges also spaced apart by about the pitch distance. Each of the individual wedges is adjacent to at least one of the protrusions. The method includes moving the elongated wedging element in a direction parallel to the direction of elongation in such a manner as to cause a wedge surface of each of the wedges to move in a direction toward its associated protrusions whereby force is applied to force the spring element toward the second edge portion of the plate and the first edge portion of the plate is forced against the generally flat surface of the fixed generally planar cold plate.

An edge clamp according to an aspect of the invention is for clamping an elongated edge of a first flat plate to a fixed flat structure. The edge clamp comprises an elongated first spring element including first and second generally mutually parallel spring plates. The first and second spring plates are elongated in a first direction namely the direction of elongation of the elongated edge of the first flat plate. The first and second spring plates are mechanically interconnected by a plurality of spaced apart supports extending in a second direction generally orthogonal to the direction of elongation of the first and second spring plates to define between the supports a plurality of unsupported regions in which the first and second spring plates are not interconnected and to also define external surfaces of the first and second spring plates on those sides of the first and second spring plates remote from the supports. The first spring plate defines at least a first and preferably a second externally directed projection from the external surface of the first spring plate in regions overlying at least some of the unsupported regions and the second spring plate defines at least a first externally directed projection from the external surface of the second spring plate centered on at least some of the unsupported regions. The edge clamp also includes first fixing means coupled to the elongated first spring element and to the fixed flat structure for preventing motion of the elongated first spring element in or parallel with the first and second directions and for allowing motion of the externally directed projections in a third direction generally orthogonal to both the first and second directions. An elongated first wedging element is elongated in the first direction and juxtaposed with the second spring plate of the elongated spring element. That surface of the first wedging element facing the second spring plate bears a plurality of wedges having length dimensions parallel with the first direction which are approximately equal to the spacing between the supports. Each of the wedges also has height dimensions parallel with the third direction the height of each of the wedges varying from a first value to a second value along the lengths thereof. The edge clamp also includes second fixing means coupled to the elongated first wedging element for preventing motion of the elongated first wedging element as a whole in the third direction and for allowing bidirectional motion of the first wedging element parallel to the first direction. Force application means are coupled to the first wedging element for applying force to the first wedging element parallel to the first direction for thereby causing motion of the first wedging element in a direction parallel with the first direction to thereby move each of the wedges relative to the externally directed projections of the second spring element to cause motion of the externally directed projections of the second spring element in the third direction relative to the fixed flat plate. As a result or whereby the externally directed projections of the first spring plate are urged against the elongated edge of the first flat plate.

In a preferred embodiment of the edge clamp according to the above aspect of the invention the second fixing means comprises a second flat plate defining an elongated edge and a second fixed flat structure. The elongated edge of the second flat plate extends parallel with the first direction and is juxtaposed with the second fixed flat structure. A second elongated spring element includes third and fourth generally mutually parallel spring plates. The third and fourth spring plates are elongated in the first direction. The third and fourth spring plates are mechanically interconnected by a plurality of spaced apart second supports extending parallel with the second direction to define between the second supports a plurality of unsupported regions in which the third and fourth spring plates are not interconnected and to also define external surfaces of the third and fourth spring plates on those sides of the third and fourth spring plates remote from the second supports. The third spring plate defines at least a first externally directed projection from the external surface of the first spring plate in regions overlying at least some of the unsupported regions and the fourth spring plate defines at least a first externally directed projection from the external surface of the second spring plate centered on at least some of the unsupported regions. The elongated second spring element is adjacent the elongated edge of the second flat plate in a manner symmetrical with the disposition of the first spring element relative to the edge of the first flat plate. An elongated second wedging element is provided. The second wedging element is elongated in the first direction and is fixed to the first wedging element for motion therewith parallel with the first direction and is juxtaposed with the fourth spring plate of the second spring element. That surface of the second wedging element facing the fourth spring plate bears a plurality of wedges having length dimensions parallel with the first direction which are approximately equal to the spacing between the second supports and height dimensions parallel with the third direction. The height of each of the wedges varies from a first value to a second value. The wedges of the second wedging element and the projections of the fourth spring element are equal in dimensions and registered with the dimensions of those of the first wedging element and the first spring element. This produces equal and oppositely directed forces on the conjoined first and second wedging means when the forcing means moves the conjoined first wedging means and second wedging means relative to the first and second spring elements respectively.

In structure of a plurality in this case two of cold plates is illustrated. The two illustrated cold plates are an upper cold plate and a mutually parallel lower cold plate . The terms upper and lower and other derivative terms are meant only as an aid to the reader in identifying or locating the items in the FIGURES and are not meant to indicate the orientation of the items in space. Cold plates and are illustrated as being solid thermally conductive plates but they may contain channels for the flow of coolant fluid if desired. As illustrated in a plurality or set of elongated bosses are affixed to or integral with the upper surface of upper coldplate . Similarly a plurality of elongated bosses and are located on the lower surface of upper coldplate and registered with the bosses and respectively. A plurality of elongated bosses are affixed to or integral with the upper surface of lower coldplate . Similarly a plurality of elongated bosses and are located on the lower surface of lower coldplate and registered with the bosses and respectively. The locations of bosses and of lower cold plate are also registered with bosses and of upper coldplate . The bosses of set of may or may not contain channels for the flow of coolant fluid but may be considered to be part of the cold plate.

Also illustrated in are three line replaceable units LRUs and of a set of line replaceable units. Not all the line replaceable units are illustrated in . Each line replaceable unit of set is associated with a generally planar supporting cold plate. More particularly supporting cold plate is associated with line replaceable unit supporting cold plate is associated with line replaceable unit and supporting cold plate is associated with line replaceable unit . Heat producing electrical or electronic elements or modules are mounted on each supporting cold plate of set of line replaceable units. As illustrated in the heat producing elements associated with supporting cold plate of line replaceable unit include a set of modules including modules and . Other heat producing modules are illustrated as being mounted on supporting cold plate but are not separately designated. While most of the heat producing modules associated with the supporting cold plates and of line replaceable units and are not visible in heat producing module is illustrated as being mounted on cold plate and a heat producing module is illustrated as being mounted on supporting cold plate

According to an aspect of the invention the heat transferred from the heat producing modules of set of modules of each of the line replaceable units and of set is transferred principally from an edge portion of the associated supporting cold plates and to the adjacent boss of set of bosses. In heat coupled into supporting cold plate of line replaceable unit is coupled principally to one side of boss through a bottom edge portion of supporting cold plate heat coupled into supporting cold plate of line replaceable unit is coupled principally to one side of boss through a bottom edge portion of supporting cold plate and heat coupled into supporting cold plate of line replaceable unit is coupled principally to the other side of boss through a bottom edge portion of supporting cold plate . While not explicitly designated corresponding heat flows occur between an upper edge portion of supporting cold plate and one side of boss between an upper edge portion of supporting cold plate and one side of boss and between an upper edge portion of supporting cold plate and the other side of boss . Thus heat is extracted or flows from the upper and lower edge portions of supporting cold plates and and by extension from the corresponding edges of other cold plates to the various bosses of set of bosses affixed to or integral with cold plates and and by extension to other cold plates not illustrated located above cold plate and below cold plate

The line replaceable units and of set of line replaceable units of and other like line replaceable units not illustrated can be inserted into or removed from the array of set of line replaceable units simply by grasping the exposed edge of the line replaceable units and pulling the line replaceable unit so grasped from the array. As known in the art push type connectors or couplings not illustrated at the other or remote end of the line replaceable unit can make or break the desired electrical connections between the modules of each line replaceable unit and the outside world regions on the far side of structure in .

According to an aspect of the invention a set of elongated edge clamps each of which can be actuated from the near side of the structure of is used to provide a relatively even clamping pressure between the edge portions of the supporting cold plates and of line replaceable units and and the relevant surfaces of adjacent bosses and . Two such elongated clamps of set are illustrated in . A first elongated clamp of set is illustrated as and a second elongated clamp of set is illustrated as

Most of clamp is not visible in so clamp is deemed to be representative and is described in detail. Edge clamp of is illustrated in exploded view and more detail in . In the edge clamp can be seen to include a wedge element elongated in a direction corresponding to a z axis. A first spring element and a second spring element are operated on by the various individual wedges of wedge element when the wedge element is moved axially in the direction of elongation. A pair of upper and lower housings T and B respectively held together by screws one of which is designated prevent motion of wedge element and spring elements and in the x and y directions while allowing motion in the z direction parallel to axis under the influence of a captivated power screw engaging a threaded aperture in the near end of wedge element .

In and the power screw includes a threaded portion T and a collar C which coacts with a pair of shoulders of the edge clamp housing not illustrated in and to restrain the power screw from substantial axial movement in the direction of elongation. A portion of the threads T of power screw engages the threaded bore at the left end of wedge element . The elongated portion of wedge element also defines a plurality of elongated or oval through apertures TA which provide clearance for screws for mounting the upper T and lower B portions of the housing as illustrated in thereby allowing for axial motion of the wedge element in the direction of elongation indicated by double headed arrow . Those surfaces of elongated wedge element which face elongated springs and define a plurality or sets and respectively of individual wedges. Set of wedges includes individual wedges . . . and each of which is separated from the next by the pitch distance S and each of which has a length dimension Swhich is approximately equal to S. Similarly set of wedges includes individual wedges . . . and each of which is separated from the next by the pitch distance S. At any fixed transverse position at which a wedge of a set or exists axial motion of the elongated wedge element causes a surface or angled edge of the wedge to move toward or away from the axis of elongation. Rotation of the power screw to engage more or less of threaded portion T in the threaded aperture in the left end of elongated wedge element as seen in moves the elongated wedge element to the left or right respectively.

Also in and the fixed location elongated spring elements and define sets TA and TA of elongated through apertures. More particularly spring element defines through apertures TA TA . . . TA TA TA and spring element defines through apertures TA TA . . . TA TA and TA. The sets TA and TA of through apertures together define support elements lying between the through apertures. More particularly set TA of through apertures defines a set S of support elements S S . . . S S and S. Similarly set TA of through apertures defines a set S of support elements S S . . . S S and S. These supports of sets S and S are defined by apertures extending in the direction of the Y axis and therefore extend in the Y direction orthogonal to the z and x axes. The apertures of sets TA and TA are not clearance apertures for screws but instead aid in defining the individual spring elements or beams of the elongated spring elements and in the regions lying between the supports of sets S and S. Mounting screw clearance apertures SML and SML allow the left ends of elongated spring elements and to be fixed to the housing so that it remains immobile during motion of the elongated wedging element . Corresponding screw clearance apertures at the right are apertures SMR and SMR.

The illustrations of and as mentioned show the elongated edge clamp in its stowed or retracted state in which the inclined surfaces of the individual wedges contact the points on the A spring beams at locations which impart little or no force in a direction transverse to the direction of elongation in the x direction of the coordinate axes .

In the end elevation view of a portion of structure of includes cold plate with fixed structures or bosses and affixed to its upper surface . Each boss and is mounted on cold plate as described in conjunction with and has elongated thermal or heat transfer edges and respectively. As illustrated in supporting cold plate includes a lower or bottom edge portion and this lower edge portion defines elongated flat surfaces and . As illustrated in the lower or bottom edge portion of supporting cold plate of line replaceable unit has one side abutting heat transfer surface of boss and its other side abutting a long side of edge clamp . Similarly one side of the bottom edge portion of supporting cold plate of line replaceable unit abuts an elongated side of boss and its other side abuts the other side of elongated edge clamp . When power screw of is rotated in one direction the wedges of edge clamp not visible in press outward from the edge clamp to force the adjacent bottom edge portion surfaces and of supporting cold plates and away from edge clamp thereby tending to press or push the elongated thermal or heat transfer surfaces of supporting cold plates and toward heat transfer surfaces and of bosses and respectively. The resulting pressure is distributed along the length of the edge clamp by virtue of its spring action described in conjunction with and . As illustrated in heat sources in the form of electronic modules and may be physically mounted on supporting cold plates and thermally coupled thereto by way of intermediary elements such as printed circuit boards and . For better thermal coupling the heat producing electronic modules such as module may be mounted directly to the supporting cold plate as for example through an aperture C in a printed circuit board or in the absence of a printed circuit board. The distributed forces tend to hold the heat transfer surfaces of the supporting cold plates and in good thermal contact with the bosses and of the cold plate thereby tending to provide good heat transfer from the heat producing elements to the ultimate heat sink.

It should be noted that the edge clamps such as edge clamp of may also provide some measure of heat sinking since the edge clamps are juxtaposed to the heat sinks such as heat sink of and the edge clamps also have surface area exposed to the ambient air.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that the forces imparted by the elongated edge clamp as described in conjunction with and are applied equally on either side of the edge clamp and that these equal forces tend to render the edge clamp immobile just as though it were fixed in the lateral or x direction. Those skilled in the art will recognize that the edge clamp can be rendered immobile in the x direction with only a single clamping side that is with only a single elongated spring element such as spring element and with only a single side of the wedging element having individual wedges if the wedging element is constrained against lateral motion motion in the x direction . Such a restraint is easily accomplished by placing mounting or fixing screws through the elongated through apertures in the wedging element . Such a mounting screw is illustrated as of extending through aperture TA.

A method according to another aspect of the invention is for clamping a generally planar object to a planar surface . The method includes juxtaposing the planar object to the planar surface . An elongated wedging element including a plurality of wedges along its length is fixed against motion in directions x y other than the direction of elongation of the wedging element and is forced to move axially in the direction of elongation. Each of the wedges bears against a corresponding first spring beam in a direction x orthogonal to the direction of elongation in response to the axial motion in the direction of elongation of the wedging element to thereby impart force to the first spring beam A . The forces imparted to the first spring beam A are coupled by intermediary supports to a second spring beam B and from the second spring beam B to the generally planar object to force the generally planar object into contact with the planar surface .

A method for extracting heat from a replaceable module one of set including a plate having a straight exposed edge region according to an aspect of the invention comprises the step of placing a first side of the edge region adjacent a surface of a fixed generally planar cold plate . A clamping element elongated in a direction of elongation is placed between a second side of the edge region and a generally straight fixed object . The clamping element includes an elongated spring element having protrusions spaced apart by a pitch distance S and also includes an elongated wedging element including a plurality of individual wedges also spaced apart by about the pitch distance S . Each of the individual wedges is adjacent to at least one of the protrusions. The method includes moving the elongated wedging element in a direction parallel to the direction of elongation in such a manner as to cause a wedge surface of each of the wedges to move in a direction toward its associated protrusions whereby force is applied to force the spring element toward the second edge portion of the plate and the first edge portion of the plate is forced against the generally flat surface of the fixed generally planar cold plate .

Thus an edge clamp according to an aspect of the invention is for clamping an elongated edge of a first flat plate to a fixed flat structure . The edge clamp comprises an elongated first spring element including first B and second A generally mutually parallel spring plates. The first B and second A spring plates are elongated in a first direction namely the direction of elongation of the elongated edge of the first flat plate . The first B and second A spring plates are mechanically interconnected by a plurality of spaced apart supports S S . . . extending in a second direction y generally orthogonal to the direction of elongation of the first B and second A spring plates to define between the supports S S . . . a plurality of unsupported regions in which the first B and second A spring plates are not interconnected and to also define external surfaces of the first B and second A spring plates on those sides of the first B and second A spring plates remote from the supports S S . . . . The first spring plate B defines at least a first and preferably a second externally directed projection . . . from the external surface of the first spring plate B in regions overlying at least some of the unsupported regions and the second spring plate A defines at least a first externally directed projection from the external surface of the second spring plate A centered on at least some of the unsupported regions . The edge clamp also includes first fixing means aperture SML and screws coupled to the elongated first spring element and to the fixed flat structure for preventing motion of the elongated first spring element in or parallel with the first and second y directions and for allowing motion of the externally directed projections in a third x direction generally orthogonal to both the first and second y directions. An elongated first wedging element is elongated in the first direction and juxtaposed with the second spring plate A of the elongated spring element . That surface of the first wedging element facing the second spring plate bears a plurality of wedges . . . having length dimensions S parallel with the first direction which are approximately equal to the spacing S between the supports S S . . . . Each of the wedges . . . also has height dimensions parallel with the third direction x the height of each of the wedges varying from a first value to a second value along the lengths thereof. The edge clamp also includes second fixing means symmetry andor screws coupled to the elongated first wedging element for preventing motion of the elongated first wedging element as a whole in the third x direction and for allowing bidirectional motion of the first wedging element parallel to the first direction. Force application means are coupled to the first wedging element for applying force to the first wedging element parallel to the first direction for thereby causing motion of the first wedging element in a direction parallel with the first direction to thereby move each of the wedges . . . relative to the externally directed projections of the second spring element A to cause motion of the externally directed projections of the second spring element A in the third x direction relative to the fixed flat plate . As a result or whereby the externally directed projections of the first spring plate B are urged against the elongated edge of the first flat plate .

In a preferred embodiment of the edge clamp according to the above aspect of the invention the second fixing means comprises a second flat plate defining an elongated edge and a second fixed flat structure . The elongated edge of the second flat plate extends parallel with the first direction and is juxtaposed with the second fixed flat structure . A second elongated spring element includes third B and fourth A generally mutually parallel spring plates. The third B and fourth A spring plates are elongated in the first direction. The third B and fourth A spring plates are mechanically interconnected by a plurality of spaced apart second supports S extending parallel with the second direction y to define between the second supports S a plurality of unsupported regions in which the third B and fourth A spring plates are not interconnected and to also define external surfaces Bes Aes of the third B and fourth A spring plates on those sides of the third B and fourth A spring plates remote from the second supports S . The third spring plate B defines at least a first externally directed projection from the external surface Bes of the first spring plate B in regions overlying at least some of the unsupported regions and the fourth spring plate A defines at least a first externally directed projection from the external surface Aes of the second spring plate A centered on at least some of the unsupported regions . The elongated second spring element is adjacent the elongated edge of the second flat plate in a manner symmetrical with the disposition of the first spring element relative to the edge of the first flat plate . An elongated second wedging element other side of wedges . . . is provided. The second wedging element other side of wedges . . . is elongated in the first direction and is fixed to the first wedging element for motion therewith parallel with the first direction and is juxtaposed with the fourth A spring plate of the second spring element . That surface of the second wedging element other side of wedges . . . facing the fourth B spring plate bears a plurality of wedges . . . having length dimensions S parallel with the first direction which are approximately equal to the spacing S between the second supports and height dimensions parallel with the third direction x . The height of each of the wedges varies from a first value to a second value. The wedges of the second wedging element other side of wedges . . . and the projections of the fourth spring element A are equal in dimensions and registered with the dimensions of those of the first wedging element first side of wedges . . . and the first spring element. This produces equal and oppositely directed forces on the conjoined first and second wedging means when the forcing means moves the conjoined first wedging means and second wedging means relative to the first and second spring elements respectively.

