---

title: Internet based system and method for wagering on an artist
abstract: This invention relates generally to the field of applications for Internet based websites. Moreover, it pertains specifically to a system and method for wagering on an artist. In the preferred embodiment, system participants use an electronic exchange to place wagers related to the popularity profile of an artist.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09122749&OS=09122749&RS=09122749
owner: Popular Metrics, Inc.
number: 09122749
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101105
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 322 625 entitled INTERNET BASED METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR RANKING ARTISTS USING A POPULARITY PROFILE filed Feb. 4 2009 which claims priority from provisional U.S. Patent Application No. 61 065 284 entitled INTERNET BASED METHOD AND SYSTEM FOR RANKING ARTISTS USING A POPULARITY PROFILE filed Feb. 11 2008 which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates generally to the field of applications for Internet based websites. Moreover it pertains specifically to a system and method for wagering on an artist. In the preferred embodiment system participants use an electronic exchange to place wagers related to the popularity profile of an artist.

Existing Internet based wagering systems typically provide tools to facilitate a wager made between two or more parties while providing little or no guidance as to the wager amount or the terms of the wager except where the odds of a wager are predetermined and otherwise easily calculated e.g. betting games such as poker and craps . There is a lack of innovation in the related art regarding the automated determination of a wager amount or the payout of a wager for events related to artists and their created content.

Existing systems that facilitate the wagering associated with an artist or an artist s created content generally rely on predetermined heuristics and the characteristics from prior or pending wagers to determine wager payouts. As with other systems the wager payouts associated with such wagering suffer from significant inefficiencies where the volume of wagers or the quality and variety of information about the object of the wagers are insufficient to effectively determine a wager payout amount. As such it is an object of the present invention to provide an Internet based system and method that overcomes these deficiencies by relying in part on a popularity profile of an artist to determine in an automated manner a more optimal payout of a wager.

In view of the limitations now present in the prior art the present invention provides a new and useful Internet based system and method for wagering on an artist which is simpler in use more universally functional and more versatile in operation than known applications of this kind. It is also a purpose of the present invention to provide a new Internet based system and method for wagering on an artist which has many novel features not offered by the prior art applications that result in a new Internet based system and method for wagering on an artist which is not apparent obvious or suggested either directly or indirectly by any of the prior art applications.

Artists may include musicians writers and book authors filmmakers graphic artists and painters actors entertainers and other creators of art and media content. While the preferred embodiment focuses on music artists it is to be understood that the present invention may embody artists of other content and as such references to music described herein may be substituted with other created content.

The goal of present invention disclosed herein otherwise referred to as The Wagering System is to provide an electronic exchange whereby a participant can make a wager based on one or more metrics related to an artist or an artist s popularity profile. A wager refers to a bet on a future outcome of a metric related to an artist. The outcome of a wager in the Wagering System is determined by the value of a metric or plurality of metrics related to an artist at a future date. This metric or plurality of metrics is based at least in a part on data related to an artist s popularity profile provided by a Popularity Profiling System as described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 322 625. Such data may include a score or set of scores. An example of a metric related to a popularity profile is a score and the success of a wager on that metric would depend on the outcome of the score at a future time.

In one embodiment a wager may be made by a participant at no cost and the participant risks no currency while earning points or other virtual currency if the wager is won. In the preferred embodiment a wager consists of some amount of virtual currency that is placed at risk of loss by the participant if the actual outcome of the metric or plurality of metrics does not match the outcome expected by the wager. If the actual and expected outcomes match or the wager is otherwise deemed successful the participant who placed the wager earns points or other virtual currency.

In the preferred embodiment The Wagering System provides the capability to incorporate widgets and badges on participants and artists websites including their MySpace page Facebook page and the like allowing them to interact with the Wagering System and or display their winnings and or other measures of performance related to the Wagering System. A participant can make a wager using a widget such as an iPhone application an Android operating system based application or another rich Internet application. Also a participant can display the participant s wager winnings and or other measures of performance through a widget.

In the preferred embodiment the present invention also embodies a system and method for conducting and hosting a variety of Internet based contests through a website or a widget that will allow participants to compete against each other with respect to the amount of their virtual currency or the status of wager goal rank vote popularity metric or other type of metric using the present invention disclosed herein as the Wagering System.

In the preferred embodiment the present invention further embodies a system and method for maintaining and displaying a list of participants via a website or a widget that will show participants in ranked order or categorize participants into groups using in one or more metrics related to virtual currency wagering and voting.

Although the following detailed description contains many specifics for the purposes of illustration anyone of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that many variations and alterations to the following details are within the scope of the invention. Accordingly the following embodiments of the invention are set forth without any loss of generality to and without imposing limitations upon the claimed invention.

All systems and communicate using a document transfer protocol such as Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or any other document transfer protocol known in the art such as FTP Gopher WAIS XMLP etc. The client computer may include a browser program such as an HTML browser capable of submitting requests using the HTTP protocol in a manner known in the art. In the preferred embodiment if the client requests the uniform resource locator URL for the Wagering System Server then the Wagering System Server would return an HTML page or any other document based on protocols known in the art in which the user at the client may utilize within a web browser. Alternatively the client may include software capable of rendering a graphical user interface based program such as a rich Internet application RIA that interacts with the Wagering System Server whether directly or through another application. RIAs include applications written using HTML5 AJAX JavaFX Microsoft Silverlight Abode Flex and Adode AIR. It is understood that RIAs and web browsers may operate on personal computers and well as mobile computers and smart phones including the iPhone and devices incorporating Google s Android operating system.

The Electronic Exchange processes wagers on behalf of participants of the Wagering System . In the preferred embodiment the Electronic Exchange allows a participant to make a wager to predict the future outcome of one or more metrics related to an artist. The metric or plurality of metrics include at least one metric that is a part of or based upon an artist s popularity profile provided by a Popularity Profiling System as discussed in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 322 625.

In the preferred embodiment the popularity profile of an artist includes one or more scores. Examples of the one or more scores or their equivalents include but are not limited to Fan Score based on the number of fans of the artist Play Score based on number of plays and downloads of songs for the artist Conversation Score based on the number of comments reviews and blog posts related to the artist Radio Score based on number of broadcast and online radio song plays of the artist Concert Score based on the number and type of upcoming shows for the artist ticket sales of pending shows and the attendance at prior shows Social Score based on number of people who recommend the artist or list the artist as a favorite Music Sales Score based on online and retail store sales of music related to the artist Video Score based on number of video plays related to the artist Sentiment Score based on sentiments expressed by consumers fans and critics toward the artist Hotness Score based on the market momentum of the artist and Brand Score an aggregate score based on the above scores .

In the preferred embodiment the Electronic Exchange processes transactions using a virtual currency. A virtual currency may be defined as dollars credits tokens points badges or similar terms representative of value or ranking. The Electronic Exchange maintains or accesses an account holding an amount of a virtual currency for each participant in the Wagering System . The Electronic Exchange will debit and credit a participant s account with respect to transactions involving the participant.

In the preferred embodiment a wager refers to a bet on a future outcome of a metric or plurality of metrics related to an artist as noted above. A wager will include at least two components 1 an expiration date and time and 2 an event predicted to occur by or at the expiration date and time. An event may include but is not limited to an artist s score or other popularity metric reaching a threshold value an artist s score or other popularity metric rising or falling by a threshold value an artist being signed or fired by a record label an artist s song reaching a measure of success and an artist earning a career achievement or award. An event may be further defined by music genre consumer demographic and or geographic region.

In the preferred embodiment an wager is requested by a participant using a client computer and transmitted to the Electronic Exchange via the Web Server or the Widget Server . Unless the wager is conditional it is executed upon receipt by the Electronic Exchange . A conditional wager will not be executed until the occurrence of a conditional event such as an artist being nominated for a Grammy award and until it is executed it will have no effect. An executed wager is considered open until it is fulfilled or it expires. A wager is fulfilled when the outcome of the event that is the object of the wager has been determined. A fulfilled wager is either won or lost from the perspective of the participant. For a lost wager the participant loses the amount wagered. For a won wager the participant wins the wager payout amount as determined by the Electronic Exchange and such amount is debited to the participant s account. A wager expires if the expiration date and time is reached prior to the determination of the outcome of the event that is the object of the wager. In the preferred embodiment an expired wager is treated the same as a lost wager.

In the preferred embodiment a wager payout amount is determined by the Electronic Exchange based at least in part on data obtained from the PPS Server . The PPS Server maintains a popularity profile for a plurality of artists wherein the PPS Server has the capability to list a metric or plurality of metrics such as a score or set of scores related to the popularity profile of each artist in a numerical order. An example of a metric is the Brand Score of an artist wherein artists are listed in descending order of the value of the Brand Score. A distribution is formed from a list by segmenting the list into groups wherein a group is defined as a range of values. The distribution allows the Electronic Exchange to determine the percentage of artists within a population of artists that exhibit a metric of which the value falls within a group e.g. 5 of artists exhibit a Brand Score greater than 500 . A payout factor is then determined from the distribution of the probabilities that a future value of the metric will equal or exceed the wagered outcome or in cases where the metric is expected to decrease the wagered outcome will equal or exceed the future value . By way of example in the preferred embodiment the payout amount in the form of a virtual currency earned for a wager is represented as follows 

In the situation where a wager is placed on a quantitative metric encapsulated in an artist s popularity profile or otherwise measured by the PPS e.g. a wager that an artist s Brand Score will reach Electronic Exchange determines the wager payout amount based on the probability that the initial value of a metric at the time the wager was executed will change to the wagered outcome the outcome which must be achieved in order to win the wager before the wager expires. This probability is calculated by the Electronic Exchange at least in part as a function of the percentage of artists exhibiting the metric at the initial value the percentage of artists exhibiting the metric at the wagered outcome the momentum of the metric as measured by the PPS the duration of the wager period the time before expiration and wagers placed by other participants in the Wagering System for the same or related metric. In the situation where a wager is placed on a qualitative metric e.g. a wager that an artist will win a Grammy award the probability is calculated from a quantified metric or plurality of metrics encapsulated in an artist s popularity profile or otherwise measured by the PPS that best serves as an indicator for the qualitative metric that is the basis of the wager.

The Widget Server acts as an interface between the Wagering System and any applications operating on a client computer that provide or receive data to or from the Wagering System . An example of a widget is an application that runs on an iPhone and allows the iPhone operator to place wagers through the Wagering System . The Widget Server may provide or receive data using an application programming interface API web services file exchange or other techniques known in the art. In the preferred embodiment data is exchanged between the Widget Server and the client computer in a structured format which conforms to a protocol such as XML or JSON.

In the preferred embodiment the Widget Server maintains a list of uniform resource locators URLs associated with client computers that host the widgets. The Widget Server pushes data or commands to the widgets operating on the client computers according to configuration settings for each widget that indicates what data is to be pushed and the time or frequency to push it. Further widgets can relay information to the Widget Server based on a user request or via an automated process such as a notification of status an event occurrence or an alert. Generally active widgets listen for commands or data sent from the Widget Server and the Widget Server listens for requests from widgets.

The Web Server acts an interface between the Trading System and any browser applications operating on a client computer . It generates one or more web pages which may utilize data from the Database . A typical web page is a document composed in languages protocols and formats including but not limited to HTML DHTML Java Javascript JSP ASP PHP Python Perl Ruby Scala Erlang C C C JSON and XML it may be implemented with other computer protocols languages and techniques known in the art. A web user may register on the website providing personal and or login information in order to procure a website based user account and gain access to restricted web pages and or features. The Web Server may also exchange data and documents with the Widget Server for use with widgets and 3party applications.

In the preferred embodiment a client computer requests a web page from the Web Server via a web browser. At least one web page is presented to a participant that provides the current status and outcome of the one or more wagers and or trades of shares made by the participant. Also in the preferred embodiment a web page may be presented that lists participants in order of performance as measured by one or more metrics including but not limited to the amount of currency in a participant s account the amount of currency gained or lost in one or more wagers and the number or percentage of favorable or unfavorable wagers made by a participant.

The Database stores information utilized by the Wagering System . One of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the Database can be implemented using a variety of open source and commercial products and tools.

The Prediction Engine performs data analysis and makes predictions about artists based on data provided by the Wagering System and the Popularity Profiling System Server . Other data may also be utilized. A prediction may include the future performance or popularity of an artist or an artist s content as measured by wagers music sales online plays scores or other metrics reflected in data obtained from the Wagering System and the Popularity Profiling System Server .

In the preferred embodiment the Prediction Engine estimates the future value of a metric such as a score as part of the popularity profile of an artist based at least in part on wagers placed by participants of the Wagering System .

In the preferred embodiment the Prediction Engine makes a prediction of a future value based on a metric or plurality of metrics such as a criterion set of criteria score or set of scores associated with an artist s popularity profile as determined by a PPS operating on Popularity Profiling System Server . Examples of a metric include music sales song downloads and plays attendance at concerts a popularity score and other measures of popularity and music demand. The prediction is a function of at least the amounts of the wagers the wager payouts the duration of the wagers the difference between the time of execution and either expiration or fulfillment the wagered outcomes the actual outcomes and the historical win loss record of the participants. The Prediction Engine will make one or multiple predictions for each metric. For multiple predictions the Prediction Engine calculates a probability distribution for the set of predictions related to a metric wherein each prediction in the set is assigned a probability 0 to 100 or similar indicator that the prediction will be correct i.e. a confidence level . The Prediction Engine further calculates a margin of error for each prediction to indicate its expected accuracy. Further for some metrics such as scores a prediction function incorporates a trend analysis of an artist s historical scores and or other metrics associated with a popularity profile. This is illustrated by the following examples 1 2 and 3 and 4 and 5 where dot over S is the predicted value of a score e.g. brand strength at time t 1 Sis the set of historical values of the score S for a prior period of time incrementally defined in units 1 through t Mis a set of n different historical metrics which may include retrieved data or other scores for the prior period Wis a set of n different wagers related to the score for the prior period dot over S is a set of prior predictions of the score S if any made by the Prediction Engine for the prior period and Eis a set of error values e.g. dot over S S dot over S S . . . dot over S S . . . dot over S S for the prior period. The function may be defined as a mathematical operation or set of operations on the inputs which may include S M W dot over S and E . By way of example could represent a trend estimation technique such as the least squares method weighted least squares method or other method of linear regression. As another example could represent a pattern recognition technique such as a neural network or a hidden Markov model.

Also in the preferred embodiment the Wagering System and other components described herein are used as part of an Internet based game. In one version of the game a player assumes the role of a music professional e.g. a music scout in the game MusicScout.com with the goal of predicting which artists and or songs will be successful. A player earns points or other virtual currency via a wager payout by making accurate predictions. Success of an artist or an artist s content is gauged at least in part by an artist s popularity profile as determined by the PPS. It may also be gauged by the results of wagers conducted via the Wagering System . It may be further gauged by results from the Prediction Engine .

A principal object of the present invention is to provide a Wagering System and Method that will overcome the deficiencies of the prior art devices.

An object of the present invention is to provide a Wagering System and Method that will provide a means for participants to make wagers trades and or predictions related to one or more measures of the popularity and performance of an artist or an artist s content such as the measures associated with an artist s popularity profile.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a Wagering System and Method that will predict which bands musicians and artists will likely become commercially successful or which exhibit a high potential for commercial success based at least in part on the wagers placed via the Wagering System related to the artists or the artists music.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a Wagering System and Method which is incorporated into an Internet based game.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a Wagering System and Method which has mobile ability including being accessible through mobile phones PDAs and other mobile Internet based devices such as the iPhone.

Another object of the present invention is to provide a Wagering System and Method which is accessible through web browsers widgets and RIAs.

It is intended that any other advantages and objects of the present invention that become apparent or obvious from the detailed description or illustrations contained herein are within the scope of the present invention.

