---

title: Live media captioning subscription framework for mobile devices
abstract: A subscription-based system provides transcribed audio information to one or more mobile devices. Some techniques feature a system for providing subscription services for currently-generated (e.g., not stored) information (e.g., caption information, transcribed audio) for one or more mobile devices for a live/current audio event. There can be a communication network for communicating to the one or more mobile devices, a transcriber configured for transcribing the event to generate information (e.g., caption information, transcribed audio). Caption data includes transcribed data and control code data. The system includes a subscription gateway configured for live/current transfer of the transcribed data to the one or more mobile devices. The subscription gateway is configured to provide access for the transcribed data to the one or more mobile devices. User preferences for subscribers can be set and/or updated by mobile device users and/or GPS-capable mobile devices to receive feeds for the live/current audio event.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08285819&OS=08285819&RS=08285819
owner: Media Captioning Services
number: 08285819
owner_city: Carlsbad
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101022
---
This application claims the benefit of priority from U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 191 265 entitled Live Media Captioning Subscription Framework for Mobile Devices filed Aug. 13 2008 now allowed which is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 087 023 entitled A Real Time Captioning Framework for Mobile Devices filed Mar. 21 2005 which issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 421 477 on Sep. 2 2008 which is a non provisional U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 554 896 entitled A Real Time Captioning Framework for Mobile Devices filed Mar. 19 2004. The disclosure of these applications is incorporated by reference in their entirety.

The present disclosure relates to media content in particular media content that is captioned for mobile applications and devices.

Traditional captioning devices such as televisions and display monitors combine text with a video broadcast in which the text represents a transcribed audio portion of the video. The captions can be either closed captions or open captions. For closed captions the caption data is embedded in a video signal and the captions are not displayed unless they are decoded. The text or caption data is embedded in line of the vertical blanking interval VBI in analog television. The VBI is an interval in a television signal that temporarily suspends transmission of the signal for an electron gun to move to the first line of a television screen for the next screen field. The VBI can be used to carry data such as a test signal or the closed captioning data.

Closed captioned data created for analog television may use protocols described by the EIA Electronics Industry Association 608 Standard. Closed captioned protocols for digital television may be described in the EIA 708 Standard. In a digital transmission such as with high definition television the EIA 708 captioning data can be encoded in user data packets in an MPEG compressed video stream.

When captions are decoded the captions can be displayed on the screen. Typically captions can be decoded at the display device. Open captions may be already decoded in the video signal and may be displayed on screen such as subtitles in foreign films. In broadcast transmission systems caption data may be transmitted to an encoder that may include text and control codes.

Caption data may also be provided to the internet using transcribed data from broadcast sources such as broadcast radio or television signals. For instance a caption writer for a radio station may transcribe a broadcast program from the radio station to post on the radio station s web page. In another example a caption writer may caption the audio portion of a television signal and send the caption data to an encoder device at a broadcast facility for inclusion in the video transmission.

The present disclosure describes methods systems and techniques for subscription based services for captioned media content. Information for the captioned media content may be created in real time and accessible to mobile devices. The information may include special reports emergency news alerts news updates on a variety of topics and reports on sports and or financial news. Some information may be accessible to mobile devices on a fee basis via an authentication mechanism utilizing user names and password protection. Alternatively some information may be freely provided as long as the mobile device user remains a subscriber. The content sent to the user may be individually customized based on the subscriber s preferences.

In one general aspect the techniques feature a system for providing subscription services for near real time caption information for one or more mobile devices. The system includes a communication network for communicating to the one or more mobile devices a transcriber connected with the communication network and configured for transcribing an event to generate caption data. The caption data includes transcribed data and control code data. The system includes a subscription gateway configured for near real time transfer of the transcribed data over the communication network to the one or more mobile devices. The subscription gateway is configured to provide access for the transcribed data to the one or more mobile devices.

Advantageous implementations can include one or more of the following features. The system can be configured to transfer transcribed data to at least two mobile devices simultaneously. The communication network may involve the Internet and the subscription gateway can be configured to send notices and alerts to subscribers using the one or more mobile devices based on subscriber preferences.

The system also includes an external subscription database to store information associated with subscribers of the near real time caption information. The use of subscriber preferences may involve sending transcribed event information to a mobile device of the subscriber based on any of an area code a country code and a zip code.

The system may also include a device with captioning functionality and a display to present caption data and a decoder to decode the caption data for presentation on the device comprising captioning functionality. The system may be further configured for near real time transfer of the caption data to the decoder.

The subscription gateway may include a transcription device interface to interact with the transcriber an encoder interface to interact with an external encoder that encodes the caption data and a subscriber database to store information associated with subscribers of the near real time caption information. The subscription gateway may also include a subscriber database interface to interact with an external subscriber database that is configured to store information associated with subscribers of the near real time caption information. The information associated with the subscribers may include subscriber preferences for caption information. The subscription gateway may have a communication network interface to interact with the communication network and transmit event data as well as a server interface to interact with an external server. The one or more mobile devices can be configured to interact with the external server and the communication network.

In another general aspect a subscription based method for sending near real time caption information to one or more mobile devices involves transcribing an event to generate device generated caption data having control codes removing the control codes from the caption data to produce text data searching a database of caption information subscribers to locate one or more subscribers subscribed to receive the text data for the event and sending the text data to one or more mobile devices over a communication network.

Advantageous implementations can include one or more of the following features. The method may also involve receiving information associated with zip codes telephone country codes telephone number area codes and city and state names from the one or more mobile devices. The method may involve comparing any of the received information with zip codes telephone country codes telephone number area codes and city and state names stored in the database and providing event data to the one or more mobile devices when information received from the one or more mobile devices corresponds with similar or the same information stored in the database.

The communication network may include any one of a satellite channel a telephony channel an optical channel a wireless channel a cable channel and an internet channel. The event data provided may be based on a geographic region relating to any of the zip codes and telephone codes in which the event data may include local news weather alerts traffic reports and emergency information. The method may involve presenting one or more real time captioning streams from one or more events to subscribers using one or more mobile devices based on subscriber preferences. The method may include authenticating subscribers based on a user name and a password stored in the database in which the transcribing involves using a transcription device to add control codes to the transcribed data. The method may involve encrypting the text data and or the subscriber data prior to sending the text data to the one or more mobile devices over the communication network. The text data and subscriber preferences can be displayed on the one or more mobile devices.

In another general aspect an article including a machine readable medium storing instructions operable to cause a machine to perform operations including receiving information from a mobile device for subscriber preferences for media content to be sent to the mobile device and searching a database that has information for subscribers of media content. The media content involves real time streaming data of transcribed data sent over a communication network. The operations include sending the transcribed data to the mobile device in which the subscriber preferences include a zip code an area code and or a country code.

Advantageous implementations can include one or more of the following features. The transcribed data may include control code data for a caption target. The caption target may have closed captioning functionality. The text data can be sent to the mobile device and the transcribed data can be sent to the caption target simultaneously. The text data can be sent to the mobile device and the transcribed data is sent to the caption target in near real time.

The operations may include selecting the media content based on any of a zip code an area code and a country code and sending an alert to the mobile device that media content is available to the sent to the mobile device. The media content can include news weather alerts traffic reports and emergency information that is specific to any of the zip codes area codes and or country codes.

In one general aspect the techniques feature a system for providing near real time caption information for one or more mobile devices. The system includes a communication network for communicating to the mobile devices and a transcriber connected with the communication network. The transcriber is configured to transcribing audio of an event to generate caption data in which the caption data includes transcribed text data and control code data. The system is further configured for near real time transfer of the transcribed audio text data over the communication network to the one or more mobile devices.

In another general aspect the techniques feature a method for sending near real time caption information to one or more mobile devices. The method involves transcribing audio to text of an event to generate caption data having control codes removing the control codes from the caption data to produce text data and sending the text data to one or more mobile devices over a communication network. The event can be a broadcasted media event which includes audio.

In another general aspect the techniques feature an article that includes a machine readable medium storing instructions operable to cause a machine to perform operations. The operations involve generating transcribed data from a transcription device sending text data from the transcribed data to a mobile device using a communication network and sending the transcribed data from the transcription device to a caption target. The text data is sent to the mobile device and the transcribed data is sent to the caption target simultaneously. The text data is sent to the mobile device and the transcribed data is sent to the caption target in near real time.

In another general aspect the techniques feature an article that includes a machine readable medium storing instructions operable to cause a machine to perform operations. The operations involve transcribing audio data from a radio broadcast and sending the transcribed audio data to at least one mobile device using a communication network. The operation of sending the data involves near real time transmission of the transcribed audio data. The communication network is coupled to at least one mobile device.

A transcription device may be used in the operation of transcribing the audio data. The operations may also include using a software program to remove closed captioning control codes from the transcribed audio data prior to sending the transcribed audio data to at least one mobile device. The transcribed audio data may involve audio data that is transcribed into text data. The audio data may be voice data.

In one exemplary implementation a system includes a communication network such as the Internet and one or more mobile devices coupled to the communication network. The system includes a transcription device to transcribe data in real time or near real time e.g. real time with a very small time delay . The transcribed data includes text data and control code data. The control code data is used by one or more captioning devices to display caption data. The control code data is removed from transcribed data and the mobile devices receive text data via the communication network. The system can simultaneously send transcribed data to one or more captioning devices while sending the text data to one or more mobile devices. Subscribers of transcribed media content can receive real time news reports emergency information and alerts on their mobile devices.

Aspects of the disclosed techniques involve a system for providing information for one or more mobile devices. The system includes a server for communicating to the one or more mobile devices for one or more users in which the one or more mobile devices includes Global Positioning System GPS capabilities. The system includes a subscription gateway configured to receive a user preference for transcribed audio for an audio event associated with a geographic location specified by the user the user preference comprising any of an area code a country code a zip code a state name a country name a city name a radio station identifier or a television station identifier. The subscription gateway includes a subscriber database to store information associated with the users of the one or more mobile devices. At least one of the mobile devices includes a software selection for a user option to utilize the GPS capabilities to update the user preference based on a geographic location of the mobile device with a selected user option. The system includes a stenocaptioning device configured for transcribing audio for the audio event simultaneously with an occurrence of the audio event. The stenocaptioning device is further configured to generate caption data that includes transcribed data and control code data. The system includes a captioning device to receive the caption data and a software tool configured to remove the control code data from the caption data to generate American Standard Code for Information Interchange ASCII text data. The system is configured for transfer of the text data over the server to the one or more mobile devices and transfer of caption data to the captioning device. The system is configured for transfers of the text data and caption data that occur coincidentally with the transcribing of audio for the audio event. The system is configured for concurrent transfer of the text data to the one or more mobile devices and the caption data to the captioning device.

These and other implementations can optionally include one or more of the following features. The system can be configured to transfer the text data to at least two of the mobile devices simultaneously. The system may further include a communication network with Internet functionality and the subscription gateway can be configured to send notices and alerts to users of the one or more mobile devices based on at least one user preference. The system can include a subscription database that is external to the subscription gateway to store information associated with the users of the one or more mobile devices or the user of the captioning device. The user preference further can include a request for the transcribed audio. At least one of the devices can include an Internet Protocol IP . The radio and television station identifiers can be associated with at least one audio source. The system can include a decoder to decode the caption data for presentation on the captioning device. The captioning device can be a device including captioning functionality. The stenocaptioning device can be a device with a stenographic keyboard a computing device having software with captioning functionality or a computing device having voice recognition software and captioning functionality. The subscription gateway can include a transcription device interface to interact with the stenocaptioning device an encoder interface to interact with an external encoder that encodes the caption data a subscriber database interface to interact with an external subscriber database configured to store information associated with the users of the one or more mobile devices or the user of the captioning device in which the information associated with the any of the users comprises subscriber preferences for the transcribed audio a communication network interface to interact with a communication network and a server interface to interact with the server in which the one or more mobile devices can be configured to interact with the server and the communication network.

In some aspects some implementations feature a method for sending transcribed audio information to one or more mobile devices. The method includes communicating via a server to the one or more mobile devices for one or more users in which the one or more mobile devices includes Global Positioning System GPS capabilities. The method includes receiving via a subscription gateway a user preference for transcribed audio for an audio event associated with a geographic location specified by the user. The user preference includes any of an area code a country code a zip code a state name a country name a city name a radio station identifier and or a television station identifier. The subscription gateway includes a subscriber database to store information associated with the users of the one or more mobile devices and at least one of the mobile device s includes a software selection for a user option to utilize the GPS capabilities to update the user preference based on a geographic location of the mobile device with a selected user option. The method includes transcribing audio with a stenocaptioning device for the audio event simultaneously with an occurrence of the audio event in which the stenocaptioning device is configured to generate caption data that comprises transcribed data and control code data. The method involves receiving the caption data with the captioning device removing the control code data from the caption data with a software tool to generate American Standard Code for Information Interchange ASCII text data transferring the text data over the server to the one or more mobile devices and transferring the caption data to the captioning device. The transfers of the text data and caption data occur coincidentally with the transcribing of audio for the audio event and there is concurrent transfer of the text data to the one or more mobile devices and the caption data to the captioning device.

These and other implementations can optionally include one or more of the following features. The user preference for transcribed audio for the audio event can include a preference for a type of audio event. The method may further include searching the subscriber database to locate one or more users subscribed to receive the text data for the audio event. The method may involve the following receiving information associated with zip codes telephone country codes telephone number area codes the city name the state name the country name the radio station identifier and or the television station identifier from the one or more mobile devices comparing any of the received information with zip codes telephone country codes telephone number area codes radio station identifiers television station identifiers audio sources video sources or city state or country names in the database and providing the text data to the one or more mobile devices when information received from the one or more mobile devices corresponds with similar information in the database. Any of the transfers of data may utilize a communication network that includes any one of a satellite channel a telephony channel an optical channel a wireless channel a cable channel and an Internet channel. The data related to the audio event can be received based on the geographic location associated with any of the following zip codes telephone country codes telephone number area codes the city name the state name the country name the radio station identifier or the television station identifier. The transcribed audio can be associated with news a weather report a traffic report a sporting event a broadcasted event or emergency information. The method may include presenting one or more data streams of text from one or more audio events to users using the one or more mobile devices based on user preferences. The method may involve authenticating users of the one or more mobile devices based on user names and passwords in one or more databases and transferring the text data to at least two of the mobile devices simultaneously. The transfer to a first one of the at least two mobile devices can at least partially overlap in time with the transfer to a second one of the at least two mobile devices. The method may involve encrypting the text data prior to transferring the text data to the one or more mobile devices. The radio and television station identifiers can be associated with at least one audio source. The method can involve transferring data to the one or more devices for displaying the text data the user preference a menu of audio events or geographic location information. The transfer of data to the one or more devices can involve transferring data to the one or more devices within an order of a few seconds from the occurrence of the audio event. The transfer of data to the one or more devices can include transferring data to the one or more devices within forty five seconds from the occurrence of the audio event e.g. 

In some aspects some implementations feature an article including a machine readable medium storing instructions operable to cause a machine to perform operations. The instructions include communicating via a server to one or more mobile devices for one or more user in which the one or more mobile devices includes Global Positioning System GPS capabilities. The instructions include receiving via a subscription gateway a user preference for transcribed audio for an audio event associated with a geographic location specified by the user in which the user preference includes any of an area code a country code a zip code a state name a country name a city name a radio station identifier and or a television station identifier. The subscription gateway includes a subscriber database to store information associated with the users of the one or more mobile devices and at least one of the mobile devices includes a software selection for a user option to utilize the GPS capabilities to update the user preference based on a geographic location of the mobile device with a selected user option. Further instructions involve transcribing audio with a stenocaptioning device for the audio event simultaneously with an occurrence of the audio event in which the stenocaptioning device is configured to generate caption data that includes transcribed data and control code data. The instructions include receiving the caption data with the captioning device removing the control code data from the caption data with a software tool to generate American Standard Code for Information Interchange ASCII text data transferring the text data over the server to the one or to more mobile devices and transferring the caption data to the captioning device. The transfers of the text data and caption data occur coincidentally with the transcribing of audio for the audio event and there is concurrent transfer of the text data to the one or more mobile devices and the caption data to the captioning device.

These and other implementations can optionally include one or more of the following features. The transcribed data can be generated from the stenocaptioning device a computing device having software with captioning functionality or a computing device including voice recognition software and captioning functionality. The article may include instructions operable to cause the machine to perform the following operations receiving information from one of the mobile devices for user preferences for media content to be sent to the mobile device searching one or more databases for media content in which the media content includes streaming ASCII text data of the transcribed audio and sending the text data to the mobile device that sent the information corresponding with the user preference. The user preference may include a video source identifier or an audio source identifier. The article can have instructions for selecting the media content based on any of the zip code the area code the country code the radio station identifier the television station identifier the audio source identifier and or the video source identifier. The radio and television station identifiers can be associated with at least one audio source. The article may further include instructions for sending an alert or an indicator to the mobile device that the transcribed audio corresponding to user preferences is available to be sent to the mobile device. The media content can include any of the following a news report a weather report a traffic report a sporting event a broadcasted event and or emergency information that is associated with any of the zip code the area code the country code the city name the state name the country name the radio station identifier the television station identifier the audio source identifier and or the video source identifier. The article can include instructions for displaying the text data on the one or more mobile devices as the text data arrives to the one or more mobile devices. The article may include instructions to cause the text data to be displayed as scrolling text and instructions to transfer the text data via the Internet.

In some aspects some implementations feature a subscription gateway for handling transcribed audio data. The subscription gateway includes a server interface for receiving one or more data feeds of transcribed audio data concurrently as audio data is transcribed into text data for a live event. The transcribed audio data includes American Standard Code for Information Interchange ASCII text data and wrapper data in which the wrapper data includes one or more client identifiers. The one or more client identifies can include a station name a call sign an area code and or a zip code. The subscription gateway includes a server for communicating with one or more mobile devices that are configured to receive the text data based on at least one user subscription. The server is configured for transmitting the text data to the one or more mobile devices concurrently with the reception of the transcribed audio data into the server interface. The subscription gateway includes a subscription server for processing one or more user preferences of users of the one or more mobile devices and for authenticating one or more user subscriptions for receiving the text data on the one or more mobile devices.

These and other implementations can optionally include one or more of the following features. The subscription server can be configured for authenticating one or more subscribers that are permitted to receive the data feeds on the one or more mobile devices as the data feeds are being received by the server interface. The authentication can include utilizing at least one user name or password. The one or more user preferences can include a user preference for transcribed audio data for an audio event associated with a geographic location specified by the user or at least one mobile device utilizing a Global Positioning System GPS to specify the geographic location. The user preference can include any of an area code a country code a zip code a state name a country name a city name a radio station identifier and or a television station identifier. The subscription gateway includes a subscriber database to store information associated with the users of the one or more mobile devices. The subscription gateway can include software to associate the user preference with the wrapper data to associate a data feed corresponding to the specified geographic location. The subscription server can be configured to execute instructions relating to a subscription status user account information payment information or a subscription term or condition. The subscription gateway can be configured to interact with a communication network that is coupled to a caption target that receives caption data corresponding to the transcribed audio data. The transcribed audio data and or caption data can be compatible with an Electronics Industry Association 708 standard EIA 708 and in some implementations the EIA 608 standard. The subscription server can include software to categorize any of the user preferences. The categorization can include geographic information area codes zip codes station identifiers event types audio sources video sources client identifiers news categories sports news or information and or financial news or information. The text data can be a product of a digital television data stream. Alternatively the text data can be a product of an analog television data transmission. The transmission of the text data via the server to the one or more mobile devices can involve bypassing any text data storage units if any during the transmission to the one or more mobile devices. The subscription gateway can be text data storage unit less e.g. without a storage unit for text data . The event can be an audio event. The subscription gateway can include a software tool for sending an alert or an indicator to at least one mobile device that live transcribed audio data for a live audio event corresponding to at least one user preference is available to be sent to at least the one mobile device. The transcribed audio data can be a product of caption data that has control codes removed from the caption data.

In some aspects some implementations feature a method for handling transcribed audio data. The method can include receiving one or more data feeds of transcribed audio data in a server interface concurrently as audio data is transcribed into text data for a live event. The transcribed audio data can include American Standard Code for Information Interchange ASCII text data and wrapper data. The wrapper data can include one or more client identifiers in which the one or more client identifies comprises a station name a call sign an area code or a zip code. The method includes the following communicating via a server with one or more mobile devices that are configured to receive the text data based on at least one user subscription transmitting the text data via the server to the one or more mobile devices concurrently with the reception of the transcribed audio data into the server interface processing one or more user preferences of users of the one or more mobile devices with a subscription server and utilizing the subscription server to authenticate one or more user subscriptions for receiving the text data on the one or more mobile devices.

These and other implementations can optionally include one or more of the following features. The method can include utilizing the subscription server to authenticate one or more subscribers that are permitted to receive the data feeds on the one or more mobile devices as the data feeds are being received by the server interface. The authentication can include utilizing at least one user name or password. The one or more user preferences can include a user preference for transcribed audio data for an audio event associated with a geographic location specified by the user or at least one mobile device utilizing a Global Positioning System GPS to specify the geographic location. The user preference can include any of an area code a country code a zip code a state name a country name a city name a radio station identifier or a television station identifier. The method can involve utilizing a subscriber database to store information associated with the users of the one or more mobile devices. The method can involve associating the user preference with the wrapper data to associate a data feed corresponding to the specified geographic location. The method can include executing instructions with the subscription server relating to a subscription status user account information payment information and or a subscription term or condition. The method can include interacting with a communication network that is coupled to a caption target that receives caption data corresponding to the transcribed audio data. The transcribed audio data or caption data is compatible with an Electronics Industry Association 708 standard EIA 708 and in some implementations the EIA 608 standard. The method can include categorizing any of the user preferences with the subscription server. The categorization can include geographic information area codes zip codes station identifiers event types audio sources video sources client identifiers news categories sports news or information and financial news or information. The method can include producing the text data from a digital television data stream or an analog television data transmission. The method can involve transmitting the text data to the one or more mobile devices by bypassing any text data storage units during the transmission to the one or more mobile devices. The method can include sending an alert or an indicator to at least one mobile device that live transcribed audio data for a live audio event corresponding to at least one user preference is available to be sent to the at least the one mobile device. The transcribed audio data can be a product of caption data that has control codes removed from the caption data and the caption data can be a product of a stenocaptioning device. Transmitting the text data to the one or more devices can involve transmitting the text data to the one or more devices within an order of a few seconds from an occurrence of the event that is being transcribed. Alternatively transmitting the text data to the one or more devices can involve receiving the text data at the one or more devices within an order of a few seconds from an occurrence of the event that is being transcribed.

In some aspects some implementations feature an article that includes a machine readable medium storing instructions operable to cause a machine to perform operations. The instructions include receiving one or more data feeds of transcribed audio data in a server interface concurrently as audio data is transcribed into text data for a live event. The transcribed audio data include American Standard Code for Information Interchange ASCII text data and wrapper data. The wrapper data includes one or more client identifiers in which the one or more client identifies includes a station name a call sign an area code and or a zip code. The instructions also involve the following communicating via a server with one or more mobile devices that are configured to receive the text data based on at least one user subscription transmitting the text data via the server to the one or more mobile devices concurrently with the reception of the transcribed audio data into the server interface processing one or more user preferences of users of the one or more mobile devices with a subscription server and utilizing the subscription server to authenticate one or more user subscriptions for receiving the text data on the one or more mobile devices.

These and other implementations can optionally include one or more of the following features. The article can include instructions for utilizing the subscription server to authenticate one or more subscribers that are permitted to receive the data feeds on the one or more mobile devices as the data feeds are being received by the server interface. The authentication can involve utilizing at least one user name or password. The one or more user preferences can include a user preference for transcribed audio data for an audio event associated with a geographic location specified by the user or at least one mobile device utilizing a Global Positioning System GPS to specify the geographic location. The user preference can include any of an area code a country code a zip code a state name a country name a city name a radio station identifier and or a television station identifier. The article can include instructions for utilizing a subscriber database to store information associated with the users of the one or more mobile devices. The article can include instructions for associating the user preference with the wrapper data to associate a data feed corresponding to the specified geographic location. The article can include instructions for executing instructions with the subscription server relating to a subscription status user account information payment information and or a subscription term or condition. The article can include instructions for interacting with a communication network that is coupled to a caption target that receives caption data corresponding to the transcribed audio data. The transcribed audio data can be compatible with an Electronics Industry Association 708 standard EIA 708 and in some implementations the EIA 608 standard. The article can include instructions for categorizing any of the user preferences with the subscription server. The categorization can include geographic information area codes zip codes station identifiers event types audio sources video sources client identifiers news categories sports news or information and or financial news or information. The article can include instructions for producing the text data from a digital television data stream or from an analog television data transmission. The instructions for transmitting the text data to the one or more mobile devices can include instructions for bypassing any text data storage units during the transmission to the one or more mobile devices. The article can include comprising instructions for sending an alert or an indicator to at least one mobile device that live transcribed audio data for a live audio event corresponding to at least one user preference is available to be sent to the at least the one mobile device. The transcribed audio data can be a product of caption data that has control codes removed from the caption data. The caption data can be a product of a stenocaptioning device. The stenocaptioning device can include a device with a stenographic keyboard a computing device having software with captioning functionality or a computing device having voice recognition software and captioning functionality. The instructions for transmitting the text data to the one or more devices can include instructions for transmitting the text data to the one or more devices within an order of a few seconds from an occurrence of the event. The text data can be received at the one or more devices within an order of a few seconds from an occurrence of the event.

Details of one or more implementations are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features and advantages will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

The following detailed description makes reference to the accompanying drawings. The following also describes tasks techniques systems apparatuses and or methods relating to fee and or advertising based and or subscription based service and or framework for closed captioned media. Other embodiments of the present invention are possible and modifications may be made to the embodiments without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Therefore the following detailed description is not meant to limit the invention.

Moreover for convenience in the ensuing description some explanations of terms are provided herein. However the explanations contained herein are intended to be exemplary only. They are not intended to limit the terms as they are described or referred to throughout the specification. Rather these explanations are meant to include any additional aspects and or examples of the terms as described and claimed herein and or as used by one of skill in the art.

The following describes various tasks techniques and systems relating to fee and or subscription based services for closed captioned media content. The present disclosure describes methods and systems that involve a fee and or subscription based framework for sending real time caption data from a caption writer to one or more mobile devices through a communication network such as the internet while simultaneously having the ability to send caption data to traditional captioning devices such as a television or monitor that can display captioned information.

The caption writer refers to a person such as a stenographer who transcribes data from a source presentation or an event. The data may be from a live event such as a sporting event an academic presentation or a financial news report. The data can be audio and or video data that is transcribed into text data. The caption writer may also transcribe the data remotely in which the writer does not have to be physically present to perform the transcription. The writer may remotely listen to and or watch the event using a telephone and or a monitor or television set. The event may or may not be an event that is broadcasted such as an event using broadcast television or radio signals.

In some implementations a subscriber system can use a password to authenticate a subscriber for the service. User names and user preferences may be stored in one or more databases. The subscriber system can be used to alert mobile device users to captioned data that may be available from video and or radio programmers. In some implementations the real time data may be created voice recognition captioning systems using stenographic theories and or methodologies. The caption data can be produced in a data stream that may have control codes or may not have control codes. The data stream can be transmitted by a server or server program as Transmission Control Protocol with Internet Protocol TCP IP packets to one or more mobile device users in real time.

In some implementations real time captioned data can be sent in a real time data stream to mobile devices. The real time captioned data can be accessed by mobile device users on a subscription basis. Each user may have a user name and password and the mobile device users may have the ability to select from among a group of content service providers. In some implementations the mobile device users can enter zip codes telephone country codes telephone number area codes city and state names by comparing zip code phone or country codes preferences to the content providers zip code phone and complete telephone numbers to enables subscribers to choose from among a range of real time captioning streams that may be available. Some of the captioning streams may be local and specific for a geographic region such as for local news weather alerts traffic reports and emergency information. Each mobile device user may set up individualized user preferences on the desired content. An alert can be sent to a subscriber if the user s preferences match the content provided by video and or audio listed providers in the database. The providers may have content that is specific for various zip codes country codes or area codes.

The caption information may be delivered from a provider of captioning services or from a content provider and a captioning service that transcribes the content provider s information. In some implementations the real time captioning transcription can be provided from a content provider to enable transmission of captioned information with caption codes to a captioning encoder or to the captioning encoder and one or more mobile devices simultaneously. Also the real time captioned data from caption service providers can be sent to a communications network from decoded output of one or more content provider stations. The real time captioned data can be verified in a database with subscriber preferences. The system can provide for user authentication by using user names and passwords and can issue alerts and notifications to subscribers of the availability of real time captioned data on video and or radio programs that have captioned data. In some implementations the notifications may include notifying subscribers of the availability of real time captioned data on video and radio programs that have captioned data that is outside the preferences of the subscribers but may be related to the preferences of the subscribers. For example an alert may be issued for a weather report of dangerous weather conditions in a local area and a subscriber may also be notified that captioned data is available for local traffic conditions in that weather.

As shown in the captioning system can simultaneously send caption information to traditional captioning devices targets and mobile devices . The captioning targets receive transcribed data which includes text data entered by the writer and control code data for the captioning device . The mobile devices are connected to a communication network and receive text data and not the control code data. The control code data can be removed from the transcribed data prior to sending data to the communication network .

The transcribed data from the writer is sent to the transcription device that sends the transcribed data to an encoder . The encoder uses the control codes to encapsulate the transcribed data for presentation on a caption target . The caption target can refer to a monitor or a television with closed captioning functionality.

Instead of or in addition to sending transcribed data to an encoder the transcription device may remove the control code data from the transcribed data and send text data to a communication network to enable for one or more users to access the text data. Examples of communication networks include various forms or mediums of data communications such as a local area network LAN a wide area network WAN a wireless local area network WLAN and a personal area network PAN . Other examples of communication networks include a mobile communication network using a multiple access technology such as a cellular phone network with Code Division Multiple Access CDMA a satellite network and the Internet.

In sending the text data to the communication network the transcription device may have software to remove the control codes from the transcribed data before sending the data to the communication network . In removing the control codes the data that is transmitted to components includes text data. The text data can be sent to the communication network and can be displayed on one or more mobile devices such as computers cell phones and personal digital assistants PDAs . The communication network interacts with a server to communicate with multiple devices. The server may refer to one or more hardware servers or software servers such as a server program. The text data may be displayed as scrolling text data in which the text is updated as the mobile device receives text. The devices may be internet compatible devices and may be connected through a cellular phone network. As used herein a mobile device may also refer to any general purpose mobile machine that processes data according to a set of instructions that is stored internally either temporarily or permanently including but not limited to general purpose mobile computers laptop computers internet compatible mobile phones wired or wireless laptop computers. Mobile devices also include satellite based transmission devices smart client devices that actively fetch data and store data locally wireless devices a cellular or mobile telephone an electronic handheld unit for the wireless receipt and or transmission of data a media content playable device such as an MP3 player or the like. Each device may have a specific or unique interne address in which the communication network may direct data to one or more devices based on the device s internet address. The system may use multicasting protocols and be configured to broadcast the simultaneously transcribed audio to text data streams from specific IP addresses assigned to the text data streams feeds from each content provider in which the text data streams are received by mobile devices that have users who are authorized to receive the text data streams.

To provide for interaction with a user each of the mobile devices uses a display such as a cathode ray tube CRT or liquid crystal display LCD monitor which displays information to the user and a keyboard and or a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball to serve as input to the mobile device. The mobile device may provide feedback to the user with any form of sensory feedback such as visual feedback or tactile feedback.

The communication network may include a back end component such as a data server or a middleware component such as an application server or a front end component such as a client computer having a graphical user interface portal or a Web browser through which a user can interact with an implementation of the systems and techniques described here. The mobile device itself may have a front end component that includes a graphical user interface. In general the communication network and or the mobile device may use any combination of such back end middleware or front end components.

The software also known as programs software tools or code in the captioning system of may include machine instructions for a programmable processor and can be implemented in a high level procedural and or object oriented programming language and or in assembly machine language. The mobile device may have an Application Programming Interface API . For example the mobile device may also run on a Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW platform an open source on line application development platform for wireless CDMA devices from Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. The BREW platform can allow application developers to write programs and scripts in various software languages such as C C JAVA and XML. The mobile device may have a software media player such as a Windows media player that can show the text data and or a video presentation of the transcribed event.

As used herein the term machine readable medium refers to any computer program product apparatus and or device used to provide machine instructions and or data to a programmable processor. The machine readable medium refers to magnetic discs optical disks memory Programmable Logic Devices PLDs and the like.

In the described system the caption writer can be located remotely from the source of the transcribed event. Also the data can be sent to a mobile device using the communication network such as the internet. Internet compatible devices with displays can present captioned text in real time or near real time. The transcribed data can be presented on a traditional caption target and a mobile device simultaneously.

In one implementation a device can allow a user to pause text streams to receive incoming phone calls or messages to the mobile device. A user may resume receiving text streams from the point at which the mobile device paused to receive an incoming message or phone call. Alternatively the user may download and review text data from a web site that has the content of live text stream data that was saved from the point the data stream was paused to the time the data stream transmission was resumed to be received by the mobile device.

In a writer transcribes the event data that they hear or see into a device that sends the data to a computer . The transcription device includes a computer with software to add control code data to the text produced from the writer . The event data may or may not be broadcasted over conventional television or radio channels. The data is sent from the computer to a communication network and then to an encoder . As described above the communication network may include a modem an internet channel and or a telephony channel. The encoder encaptions the data at the caption target so that the data is put into a format for presentation on a television or a monitor such as utilizing line of the VBI as described above. The caption target itself has a decoder to decode the encaptioned data from the encoder prior to presenting the text on the monitor.

Alternatively and or simultaneously software in the computer removes the control codes from the transcribed data and sends text data to a server . The server may be implemented in hardware or software. The server sends the text data to the mobile device . In one implementation the server may send the text data to the mobile device using a communication network such as the internet. The mobile device can receive the data from the communication network through a router such as a cable DSL Digital Subscriber Line router or a router in an enterprise or business environment.

The server can send the text data to the mobile device via an internet address. In one implementation the mobile device has a particular internet address. As the text data is routed through the internet the text data is routed to the internet address of a particular mobile device . In this aspect the mobile device is a client to the server .

Instead of being located in the computer the software or program to remove the control code data from the transcribed data can be distributed among one or more components of . In one implementation the control code data may be removed by software located in the device itself as described in . The transcribed data may then be sent to the caption target and or the text data may be sent to the mobile device without using the computer .

In another implementation both the caption target and the mobile device can receive the transcribed data with the control code data. The mobile device itself may have software to remove the control code data. The device can have control code removal abilities without having to require control code removing software in another component of the system.

In an alternative implementation shown in voice recognition software can be used to generate caption information. Voice recognition software can be used instead of the writer and the transcription device . The voice recognition software can convert speech audio input into transcribed data output. The transcribed data can include control codes to be sent to the caption target . At the same time the voice recognition software can output the text of the transcribed data to be sent to the mobile device .

In some exemplary implementations the system may include a communication network such as the Internet one or more mobile devices coupled to the communication network and a subscription gateway . The subscription gateway may be a communication network or a server program. The subscription gateway can receive transcribed data from a transcription device . The data may include captioning control codes or the control codes may be removed by a computer using control code removal software . In some implementations the subscription gateway can transmit data to a communication network which will distribute data to a caption encoder . The subscription gateway may distribute text data to a server device that may authenticate subscriber data by a user name and a password. The mobile device can display a menu of video radio and event programming that is currently transcribed for selection by the subscriber.

In another implementation the transcription device can transmit data to the subscription gateway. The subscription gateway may be connected to a communication network which can transmit authentication data user name password data and other subscriber data information from mobile device users. The subscription gateway can provide data encryption and authentication of subscriber related data using the user names and password authentication.

In one exemplary implementation the server interface can compare user name and password authentication information and distribute real time transcribed information to the server . The server interface can process the authenticated subscriber information and according to user preferences transmit the transcribed data to the server which is connected to one or more mobile devices . In one exemplary implementation the mobile device user subscriber can enter a zip code or a country code to display a menu selection of event programming audio broadcasts and or video programming that are being transcribed in real time and are available for selection by a subscriber.

In another exemplary implementation the server interface can compare real time transcribed data streams from video and radio providers which can be inserted in the communication network to the communication interface of the subscription gateway . The communication interface may be implemented in hardware or software. In some implementations the communication interface can be used to transmit an alert message to subscribers of the availability of data streams of video and or radio programming in subscriber profiles by zip code and or country code. The system can allow the subscriber to select a video program provider for a particular zip code for emergency notifications as well as to enter user names and passwords in the mobile device. The mobile devices could transmit data via the communication network to the communication network interface . Alternatively the mobile devices could transmit data via the server to the server interface . In some implementations the communication network interface device can authenticate the user names and password information from the external subscriber database through the subscriber data interface . Alternatively the communication network interface device can authenticate the user names and password information from the internal subscriber database . The listing of transcribed real time data may be transmitted to the server interface and to the server . After authentication and selection of real time data stream from a content provider the mobile device can receive the selected data stream through the communication network . Mobile device users with subscriptions can be notified of available data streams of transcribed content from video and or radio programmers for user specified zip codes area codes or country codes. The notifications may be sent from communication interface with an e mail alert or an audible alert.

In another implementation the communication network may receive captioned data from the communication network interface . In some exemplary implementations the communication network interface may remove control codes if any and transmit real time text data received from a communication network to mobile devices using the server and the server interface . The communication network may receive captioned data from decoded output of an encoder device at a video and or radio program station. The communication network may also receive caption data transcribed using voice recognition technologies or through stenographic techniques of an audio broadcast. The received data may contain control codes or be in raw text form. Data passing through the subscription gateway may be encrypted by data security features in which the data security features may be implemented in hardware or software. The data whether encrypted or unencrypted can be sent to communication network interface . In some implementations subscriber authentication by user name and password can be performed by the subscriber data interface accessing an external subscriber database . Caption content subscribers on mobile devices can enter a user name and a password on a mobile device and access streaming data after authentication. The subscribers can access transcribed captioned video and or radio programming being transmitted in real time using real time transcription technologies such as voice recognition technology or stenographic based technology.

In other implementations video and or radio station programmers can send alerts and messages to the communication network . The communication network may include the apparatuses of an internet service provider that may have the capabilities of sending notifications of emergency and or special reports of captioned data being transmitted by the station providers. The communication network interface may receive the captioned data with or without control codes.

In some implementations the subscriber data interface may compare data provided by communication network with such data provided in the internal database or external database and match station call sign data provided by stations to a zip code and or a country code. In some implementations the user preference data can be matched to the call sign data of stations of content providers to automatically match the news messages and alerts of the stations to a local zip code or country code for the subscriber. In these implementations subscribers can automatically be able to receive captioned content from stations of content providers such as a local news television station or a radio station. In some implementations the content from the stations are not necessarily limited to the area code where the subscriber is located but a subscriber may want to receive alerts and messages from stations located in other jurisdictions. For example the subscriber may be in one location e.g. San Diego Calif. area code 619 with their mobile device and may have user preferences with an area code e.g. Charlotte N.C. area code 704 to receive alerts and notifications for a different location.

In some implementations the subscriber may have preferences for captioned real time data from video and or audio providers based on selected zip codes area codes or country codes of the video and audio providers. The subscriber data may be authenticated by the subscriber data interface . The subscriber database interface may compare subscriber preferences and profiles and can transmit alerts via the communication network to one or more mobile device subscribers. In some implementations the mobile device subscribers may be mobile phone subscribers. In other implementations the mobile device subscribers may be using WiMax the IEEE 802.16 Air Interface Standard. The mobile device subscribers can enter a user name and a password for authentication via the subscriber database interface .

In some implementations the captioned data stream for a selected captioned video and or radio program can be sent to the server interface which can remove control codes if any and transmit the data to the server . The server can transmit TCP IP data of real time captioned data with no control codes to the communication network which can multicast the captioned data to authenticated subscribers for receipt on one or more mobile devices.

In some implementations the subscribers may have a free subscription to one or more content providers. The content providers can interact with a caption service provider to provide caption and or transcription services to subscribers. In other implementations the subscribers may have a fee based subscription to the contents providers. Alternatively the subscribers may have a free subscription to some free content providers and a fee based subscription to fee based content providers. The subscribers may have free or fee based subscriptions to one or more caption service providers. The content providers and or the caption service providers may provide captioned and or transcribed data free for a limited time and for a fee at a later time. Subscription information accounts payments terms and related information on the subscribers may be maintained in the subscription gateway database and or the external subscriber database .

The subscription gateway may be implemented in software and or hardware. One or more components e.g. communication network interface subscriber database interface server interface of the subscription gateway may be implemented in software and or hardware. The subscriber preferences may be sent from a webpage over the Internet to be entered into the subscription gateway.

In analog television a caption standard is defined by EIA 608 Electronic Industry Association and in the digital domain HD SDI by an EIA 708 standard or a variation of that standard. In digital television the digital television bit stream of information can be encapsulated in a transport protocol which includes video user data bits a dtvcc caption channel. In the dtvcc caption channel caption service formerly line data in the analog format and additional caption service data streams can be contained in the bit stream. In some implementations in digital transmission the data rate for closed captioned data can be 9600 bps enabling many additional features to be implemented such as user control over font size color and other text characteristics.

In some implementations the data from the writers may be caption data that includes audio data that is translated into text data during the occurrence of an audio event and the caption encoder can have functionality to decode the caption data to produce ASCII text data. In these implementations the caption encoders and or the network interfaces can have functionality to add a wrapper with the ASCII text data in a data stream to the Internet .

The subscription gateway in includes the subscription server the server interface and a server . The server can have functionality to transmit selected user preferences and or text feeds to from mobile devices . The subscription server can store and or categorize user preferences such as geographic information area codes zip codes station identifiers event types audio and or video sources client identifiers news categories sports news and information financial news and information as well as authentication data. The subscription server authenticates mobile devices data for users of mobile devices and or requests and or data from mobile devices . The subscription server can interact with the server interface to authorize data transmission with one or more mobile devices. In some implementations data may be transmitted to from the mobile devices as a function of user preferences and or requests from users of the mobile devices . The authentication data may include passwords user names subscription statuses user account information payment information subscription terms and conditions and the like. The subscription server server interface and server may be located within one physical unit or may be distributed servers. The servers and or the subscription gateway may be implemented in hardware and or software in any combination. In some implementations the subscription gateway may be the same subscription gateway as or similar to the subscription gateway of with corresponding components therein. The event can be a broadcasted media event which can include audio.

The captioning system can simultaneously send caption information to captioning devices targets and mobile devices . The captioning targets receive transcribed data which includes text data entered by the writer and control code data for the captioning device . The transcription device can interact with a communication network and the communication network can interact with the server interface and the Internet . The communication network can send or receive text and or data to or from the server interface and or the Internet . The system can be configured for transfer of the text data over a server to the one or more mobile devices and transfer of caption data to the captioning device. The system can be configured for transfers of the text data and caption data that occur coincidentally with the transcribing of audio for the audio event. The system can be configured for concurrent transfer of the text data to the one or more mobile devices and the caption data to the captioning device. The system can transfer the text data to at least two of the mobile devices simultaneously.

In some implementations because audio is being transcribed into text data the system requires no video stream to be sent to the mobile device. In some of these implementations because ASCII text data is sent to the mobile device the system resources and overhead required to quickly transmit text data to the mobile device can be significantly lower than when transmitting video data thus providing efficiency low overhead and fast response times for the overall system.

In some embodiments there can be multiple writers transcription devices encoders and caption targets in parallel that are arranged similar to writer transcription device encoder and caption target in or the other figures. These parallel sources of transcribed audio data can be transmitted to the communication network and the server interface in the subscription gateway .

In some implementations a client device can encapsulate the text data which can represent a text version of audio data that was simultaneously transcribed with the occurrence of an event. In some implementations using digital television e.g. HD TV the ASCII text data can be extracted from the encoded DTV transport bit stream as service field data by using an internal module to decode the ASCII text and thus removing it from the encoded TV signal.

In some implementations the encoder may decode the EIA 608 NTSC caption data which may be encapsulated in the DTV bit stream by using an internal decoder module or an external line decoder box. The decoded text data may be output by the encoder using a EIA 608 caption stream through an internal module in an encoder to output the text to the client. In other implementations an unconverted 608 to 708 caption data stream may be decoded by an internal module in an encoder to output ASCII text without control codes and to transmit via client network.

In some implementations a subscription system can allow users to create and or update user preferences through a web portal e.g. accessing the subscriber database in the subscription gateway and or directly from a mobile device to access the subscriber database. In some implementations the mobile device may have Global Positioning System GPS capability and the mobile device user can have the option to have the user preferences to be automatically e.g. without human intervention and instantly updated to reflect user preference information based on where the mobile device is located. In some implementations the mobile device with the GPS capability employing this subscription system can display all potential audio text feeds coming from around the geographic area of the mobile device. The updates and or display of audio text feeds can occur automatically wherever the mobile device is located including any changes in location of the mobile device .

Because the mobile device immediately receives ASCII text from transcribed audio data for a current live event no storage is required for the audio text feeds. In some instances even though some or all of the user preferences may be stored on the mobile devices no storage is required at all for the audio text feeds for operation of the subscription system for any of the implementations shown herein. In some of these instances no storage of the audio text feeds e.g. audio data caption data and or ASCII text data streams is required anywhere in the subscription system including the server communication network subscription gateway and or the mobile devices.

In one example application a traveler in Los Angeles might specify in his user preferences to have access to all news streams from areas codes for 213 818 or 760 if he is travelling via airplane to New York area code 212 . The mobile device user can select the option to have his user preferences to be automatically and instantly updated to reflect user preference information based on where the Mobile device is located. Accordingly when his plane lands in Chicago for a stop or to change planes his user preferences for his mobile device can be automatically and immediately updated via GPS to have all Chicago area codes e.g. area code 312 to enable live streams of text data e.g. ASCII text from translated audio data for a current live event to be sent to his mobile device at that time in that location.

Any of the implementations described herein can be configured for live current transmission of text data from transcribed audio to multiple mobile devices while an audio event is occurring. For example these implementations can be used by a live current media feed from a television station to transmit live current news reports announcements live programs or live sporting events to one or more mobile devices while combining the implementations with other technologies to transmit pre recorded programs such as pre recorded television shows movies commercials recordings and advertisements. The pre recorded programs may include audio that was transcribed into text data at a time before an occurrence of live current transmission of transcribed audio data for a live current audio event. The pre recorded programming may have audio and or transcribed audio data that was stored on a storage unit e.g. DVD CD tape a machine readable medium and or storage device e.g. memory hard drive flash drive a machine reading data from the machine readable medium . Any of the implementations herein can be used exclusively for live current transmission of transcribed data for a live current audio event to one or more mobile devices and or one or more caption targets simultaneously in which the transcribed text data may not be stored on any storage unit and or device before it is received into the one or more mobile devices and or the one or more caption targets.

