---

title: Energy harvesting systems and methods of assembling same
abstract: A method of assembling an energy harvesting system is provided. The method includes coupling at least one energy storage device in flow communication with at least one apparatus that is configured to generate thermal energy and to transfer the thermal energy into at least one fluid stream. The energy storage device is configured to store the fluid stream. Moreover, the method includes coupling at least one fluid transfer device downstream from the energy storage device. The fluid transfer device receives the fluid stream from the energy storage device. A bladeless turbine is coupled in flow communication with the fluid transfer device, wherein the bladeless turbine receives the fluid stream to generate power.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08549856&OS=08549856&RS=08549856
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration
number: 08549856
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101012
---
The invention described hereunder was made in the performance of work under a NASA contract and is subject to the provisions of Public Law 96 517 35 U.S.C. 202 in which the Contractor has elected not to retain title.

The field of the invention relates generally to energy harvesting systems and more particularly to energy harvesting systems that convert waste heat to power using a bladeless turbine or a boundary layer turbine.

Waste heat is generated from machines electrical equipment and industrial processes for which there exists no useful application and is often regarded as a waste by product. For example waste heat can be generated from steel mills concrete plants smokestacks and automobile exhausts. Moreover waste heat can be harvested for power. At least some known systems that harvest waste heat for power use steam turbine engines to convert heat to power by extracting thermal energy from pressurized steam prior to converting the energy into rotary motion used to drive a generator. Known generators convert the mechanical energy into electrical power.

However the process of converting thermal energy into electrical power via such systems is generally inefficient. Specifically to generate a large amount of power from thermal energy a relatively high temperature heat is required. Although heat losses in such a process contribute greatly to the overall efficiency of the system the high temperatures are necessary to ensure operation of the system. For example in at least some known steam turbine engines the turbines are not operable with liquid flow as liquid may damage the turbine and lead to erosion of the components of the turbine. As such known energy harvesting systems require additional heating technology such as superheaters to ensure any fluid flow is vaporized to steam prior to any flow entering the turbine. Therefore the cost effectiveness and or operational efficiency of known energy harvesting systems may be limited.

In one embodiment a method of assembling an energy harvesting system is provided. The method includes coupling at least one energy storage device in flow communication with at least one apparatus that is configured to generate thermal energy and to transfer the thermal energy into at least one fluid stream. The energy storage device is configured to store the fluid stream. Moreover the method includes coupling at least one fluid transfer device downstream from the energy storage device. The fluid transfer device receives the fluid stream from the energy storage device. A bladeless turbine is coupled in flow communication with the fluid transfer device wherein the bladeless turbine receives the fluid stream to generate power.

In another embodiment an energy harvesting system is provided. The energy harvesting system includes at least one apparatus configured to generate thermal energy and to transfer the thermal energy into at least one fluid stream. The energy harvesting system also includes at least one energy storage device that is coupled in flow communication with the apparatus and the energy storage device is configured to store the fluid stream. Moreover the energy harvesting system includes at least one fluid transfer device that is coupled downstream from the energy storage device for receiving the fluid stream from the energy storage device. Further the energy harvesting system includes a bladeless turbine that is coupled in flow communication with the fluid transfer device. The bladeless turbine receives the at least one fluid stream to generate power.

In another embodiment an energy harvesting system is provided. The energy harvesting system includes at least one apparatus configured to generate thermal energy and to transfer the thermal energy into at least one fluid stream. The energy harvesting system also includes at least one energy storage device that is coupled in flow communication with the apparatus and the energy storage device is configured to store the fluid stream. Moreover the energy harvesting system includes at least one fluid transfer device that is coupled downstream from the energy storage device for receiving the fluid stream from the energy storage device. Further the energy harvesting system includes a bladeless turbine that is coupled in flow communication with the fluid transfer device and the bladeless turbine receives the at least one fluid stream to generate power. Moreover the energy harvesting system includes a condensing device that is coupled in flow communication with the bladeless turbine and with the fluid transfer device.

The exemplary methods apparatus and systems described herein overcome at least some known disadvantages associated with known energy harvesting systems that use waste heat to generate power. In particular the embodiments described herein provide a system that is efficient and that can convert waste heat to electrical power at a relatively low temperature. The energy systems described herein each use a bladeless turbine or a boundary layer turbine that receives a fluid stream at a relatively low temperature. More specifically such a turbine operates with using vapor and or liquid flow and does not require additional heating technology such as superheaters.

Moreover in the exemplary embodiment system also includes at least one energy storage device that is coupled in flow communication with apparatus via a fluid channel . In the exemplary embodiment energy storage device is a thermal energy storage device that provides a continuous source of heat via a fluid stream.

System includes at least one fluid transfer device that is coupled downstream from the energy storage device via a fluid channel . In the exemplary embodiment fluid transfer device is a loop heat pipe. Alternatively fluid transfer device may be any type of device configured to transfer fluid and that enables system to function as described herein. For example fluid transfer device may be any two phase heat and or fluid transfer device that is enabled to use capillary action to passively transfer fluid such as a capillary pumped loop or a thermosyphon and that enables system to function as described herein. Moreover fluid transfer device may be configured to actively transfer fluid via a pump and that enables system to function as described herein.

More specifically in the exemplary embodiment the fluid transfer device includes an evaporator a condenser and a compensation chamber . Evaporator and condenser are coupled to each other via a fluid channel and a fluid channel . Moreover evaporator and compensation chamber each contain at least one wick not shown .

System also includes a bladeless turbine that is coupled in flow communication with fluid transfer device . More specifically evaporator is coupled to bladeless turbine via a fluid channel and condenser is coupled to bladeless turbine via a fluid channel .

In the exemplary embodiment bladeless turbine is a Tesla turbine. Alternatively bladeless turbine may be any turbine that enables system to function as described herein. More specifically in the exemplary embodiment bladeless turbine includes a plurality of disks that are coupled to a rotor shaft to form a rotor . Each disk includes a central opening not shown extending therethrough and shaft extends through each disk opening such that each disk substantially surrounds shaft . Moreover the disk openings are in flow communication with each other such that at least one exhaust port not shown is defined between disks and shall . Further each disk is spaced a predetermined distance from each other such that a flow path is defined between adjacent disks .

Bladeless turbine also includes a stationary element at least partially circumscribing rotor such that stationary element and rotor at least partially define a cavity not shown between them. Stationary element includes at least one inlet . More specifically in the exemplary embodiment stationary element includes two inlets wherein each inlet is located on opposing ends. Each inlet is coupled to a nozzle and each nozzle is coupled to fluid channel and fluid channel . Moreover bladeless turbine is coupled to a generator . More specifically shaft is coupled to generator via a conduit .

During operation apparatus generates waste heat such as thermal energy and transfers the thermal energy into at least one fluid stream. In the exemplary embodiment the fluid stream is in a liquid and gaseous state. Energy storage device receives the fluid stream via channel and the fluid stream is stored in device . When power is needed for system the fluid stream is channeled from energy storage device towards fluid transfer device . More specifically the fluid stream is channeled via fluid channel to evaporator . As the fluid stream is channeled to evaporator liquid from the fluid stream is vaporized and a vapor stream is generated from at least a portion of the fluid stream. Moreover menisci formed in the evaporator wick develop capillary forces that passively channel the vapor stream and or the remaining fluid stream towards condenser via fluid channel . Alternatively the vapor stream and or remaining fluid stream can be channeled directly to turbine via fluid channel .

If the vapor stream and or the remaining fluid stream is channeled into condenser condenser generates a liquid stream from the vapor stream and or the remaining fluid stream channeled therein. The capillary forces passively channel the liquid stream to turbine via fluid channel .

Alternatively the liquid stream and or remaining fluid stream may be recirculated back into the evaporator . Specifically in such an instance the liquid stream and or remaining fluid streams are channeled via fluid channel into the evaporator . The compensation chamber stores excess liquid and controls the operating temperature of fluid transfer device .

Bladeless turbine receives the fluid stream from fluid transfer device via either fluid channel or via fluid channel . More specifically the fluid stream is channeled from fluid channel and or fluid channel into nozzles at inlets . The fluid stream is then channeled between disks such that flow path is defined between adjacent disks . The fluid stream is then channeled through the exhaust ports defined through the disk openings. The fluid stream channeled between disks induces rotation of disks and shaft . The mechanical energy is then converted into electricity via generator coupled to shaft . Thus the liquid and or vapor channeled to turbine creates a rotational force that ultimately produces work from turbine .

In the exemplary embodiment system is efficient and can convert waste heat to electrical power at a relatively low temperature. More specifically bladeless turbine receives the fluid stream in either a liquid state and or gaseous state from fluid transfer device . As such bladeless turbine operates with using vapor and or liquid flow and does not require additional heating technology such as superheaters. Moreover bladeless turbine is able to receive the fluid stream at a relatively low temperature. For example in one embodiment bladeless turbine receives the fluid stream at a temperature between about 65 C. to about 500 degrees C.

Moreover in the exemplary embodiment system also includes at least one energy storage device that is coupled in flow communication with apparatus via a fluid channel . In the exemplary embodiment energy storage device is a thermal energy storage device that provides a continuous source of heat via a fluid stream.

System includes at least one fluid transfer device that is coupled downstream from the energy storage device via fluid channel . In the exemplary embodiment fluid transfer device includes an evaporator and a compensation chamber . Energy storage device is coupled to evaporator via fluid channel . Evaporator and compensation chamber each include at least one wick not shown . Alternatively fluid transfer device may be any type of device configured to transfer fluid and that enables system to function as described herein. For example fluid transfer device may be any heat and or fluid transfer device that is enabled to use capillary action to passively transfer fluid and that enables system to function as described herein. Moreover fluid transfer device may be configured to actively transfer fluid via a pump not shown and that enables system to function as described herein.

System also includes a bladeless turbine that is coupled in flow communication with fluid transfer device . More specifically evaporator is coupled to bladeless turbine via a fluid channel . In the exemplary embodiment bladeless turbine is a Tesla turbine. Alternatively bladeless turbine may be any turbine that enables system to function as described herein.

More specifically in the exemplary embodiment bladeless turbine includes a plurality of disks that are coupled to a rotor shaft to form a rotor . Each disk includes a central opening not shown extending therethrough and shaft extends through each disk opening such that each disk substantially surrounds shaft . Moreover the disk openings are in flow communication with each other such that at least one exhaust port not shown is defined between disks and shaft . Moreover each disk is spaced a predetermined distance from each other such that a flow path is defined between adjacent disks .

Bladeless turbine also includes a stationary element at least partially circumscribing rotor such that stationary element and rotor at least partially define a cavity not shown between them. Stationary element includes at least one inlet . Inlet is coupled to a nozzle and nozzle is coupled to fluid channel . Moreover bladeless turbine is coupled to a generator . More specifically shaft is coupled to generator via conduit .

Moreover system includes a condensing device coupled in flow communication with bladeless turbine and with fluid transfer device . More specifically a first end of condensing device is coupled in flow communication with turbine via a fluid channel and a second end is coupled in flow communication with fluid transfer device via fluid channel . More specifically condensing device is coupled to evaporator via channel .

During operation apparatus generates waste heat such as thermal energy and transfers the thermal energy into at least one fluid stream. In the exemplary embodiment the fluid stream is in a liquid and gaseous state. Energy storage device receives the fluid stream and the fluid stream is stored in device . When power is needed for the system the fluid stream is channeled from energy storage device towards fluid transfer device . More specifically the fluid stream is channeled via fluid channel to evaporator . As the fluid stream is channeled to evaporator liquid from the fluid stream is vaporized and a vapor stream is generated from at least a portion of the fluid stream. Moreover menisci formed in the evaporator wick develop capillary forces that passively channel the vapor stream and or the remaining fluid stream towards bladeless turbine via fluid channel .

More specifically the fluid stream is channeled from fluid channel into nozzle at inlet . The fluid stream is then channeled between disks such that flow path is defined between adjacent disks . Moreover the fluid stream is channeled through the exhaust ports defined through the openings. The fluid stream channeled between disks induces rotation of disks and shaft . The mechanical energy is then converted into electricity via generator coupled to shaft . Thus the liquid and or vapor channeled to bladeless turbine creates a rotational force that ultimately produces work from bladeless turbine .

Any remaining fluid and or vapor not used by turbine is channeled via fluid channel into condensing device . Condensing device condenses a liquid stream from the vapor and the capillary forces passively channel the liquid stream to fluid transfer device via fluid channel . More specifically the liquid stream is recirculated to evaporator via channel such that another fluid stream can be channeled to bladeless turbine to generate power.

In the exemplary embodiment system is efficient and can convert waste heat to electrical power at a relatively low temperature. More specifically bladeless turbine receives the fluid stream in either a liquid state and or gaseous state from fluid transfer device . As such bladeless turbine operates with using vapor and or liquid flow and does not require additional heating technology such as superheaters. Moreover bladeless turbine is able to receive the fluid stream at a relatively low temperature. For example in one embodiment bladeless turbine receives the fluid stream at a temperature between about 65 C. to about 500 degrees C. Further using condensing device after the fluid stream has been channeled through turbine enables system to continue to convert waste heat to electrical power.

Moreover at least one fluid transfer device shown in is coupled downstream from energy storage device . Further a bladeless turbine shown in is coupled in flow communication with fluid transfer device .

The methods and apparatus for an energy harvesting system as described herein facilitates a system that is efficient and that can convert waste heat to electrical power at a relatively low temperature. The energy systems described herein each use a bladeless turbine or a boundary layer turbine that receives a fluid stream at a relatively low temperature. More specifically such a turbine operates with using vapor and or liquid flow and does not require additional heating technology such as superheaters.

Exemplary embodiments of an energy harvesting system using a bladeless turbine or a boundary layer turbine are described above in detail. The methods apparatus and systems are not limited to the specific embodiments described herein nor to the specific illustrated energy harvesting system. While the invention has been described in terms of various specific embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the invention can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the claims.

Although specific features of various embodiments of the invention may be shown in some drawings and not in others this is for convenience only. Moreover references to one embodiment in the above description are not intended to be interpreted as excluding the existence of additional embodiments that also incorporate the recited features. In accordance with the principles of the invention any feature of a drawing may be referenced and or claimed in combination with any feature of any other drawing.

This written description uses examples to disclose the invention including the best mode and also to enable any person skilled in the art to practice the invention including making and using any devices or systems and performing any incorporated methods. The patentable scope of the invention is defined by the claims and may include other examples that occur to those skilled in the art. Such other examples are intended to be within the scope of the claims if they have structural elements that do not differ from the literal language of the claims or if they include equivalent structural elements with insubstantial differences from the literal languages of the claims.

