---

title: System and method for content and application acceleration in a wireless communications system
abstract: A system and method for content and application acceleration in a wireless communications system are provided. A method for transmitting data includes receiving a block of data from a content provider, generating a signature from the block of data, and determining if the signature exists in a content cache. The content cache includes previously transmitted signatures and blocks of data associated with the previously transmitted signatures. The method also includes if the signature exists in the content cache, saving the signature but not the block of data in a buffer. The method further includes if the signature does not exist in the content cache, saving the block of data in the buffer. The method additionally includes transmitting contents of the buffer over a backhaul link.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09420441&OS=09420441&RS=09420441
owner: Futurewei Technologies, Inc.
number: 09420441
owner_city: Plano
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100707
---
The present invention relates generally to a system and method for digital communications and more particularly to a system and method for content and application acceleration in a wireless communications system.

As mobile communications devices also commonly referred to as User Equipment UE mobile stations terminals smart phones and so forth become more technologically advanced they are becoming capable of providing more than just voice connectivity. In addition to providing voice connections the technologically advanced mobile communications devices may enable users to web surf stream multimedia share images serve as access points for computers and so forth at continually increasing data rates.

Studies have shown that the world wide market penetration of advanced mobile communications devices will double in the next few years increasing from approximately 16 percent of the total mobile communications devices market to about 37 percent of the total mobile communications devices market. Furthermore data e.g. web data multimedia images computer data and so on may double each year every year for the immediate future.

As an example mobile Internet has become a common platform to allow users to share information and content using advanced mobile communications devices. Streaming video applications based on hyper text transfer protocol HTTP transmission control protocol TCP are becoming a dominant traffic pattern in mobile Internet. However these applications may consume a considerable amount of bandwidth.

Therefore deployment of such large numbers of the advanced mobile communications devices may place a huge burden on bandwidth capabilities of wireless communications systems which must continue to increase bandwidth capabilities to ensure adequate performance to satisfy user demands.

These and other problems are generally solved or circumvented and technical advantages are generally achieved by preferred embodiments of the present invention which provide a system and method for content and application acceleration in a wireless communications system.

In accordance with a preferred embodiment of the present invention a method for transmitting data is provided. The method includes receiving a block of data from a content provider generating a signature from the block of data and determining if the signature exists in a content cache. The content cache includes previously transmitted signatures and blocks of data associated with the previously transmitted signatures. The method also includes if the signature exists in the content cache saving the signature but not the block of data in a buffer. The method further includes if the signature does not exist in the content cache saving the block of data in the buffer. The method additionally includes transmitting contents of the buffer over a backhaul link.

In accordance with another preferred embodiment of the present invention a method for processing data is provided. The method includes requesting content from a provider receiving a transmission over a backhaul link the transmission being based on the request and determining if the transmission comprises a signature without a block of data or a signature and a block of data. The method further includes if the transmission comprises the signature without a block of data retrieving an associated block of data from a content cache based on the signature. The method also includes if the transmission comprises the signature and the block of data saving the signature and the block of data in the content cache. The method additionally includes processing the block of data.

In accordance with another preferred embodiment of the present invention a communications device is provided. The communications device includes a receiver a transmitter a controller coupled to the transmitter and to the receiver and a content acceleration unit coupled to the controller to the transmitter and to the receiver. The receiver receives incoming information from a data input port the transmitter transmits outgoing information to a data output port and the controller controls transmissions to and from other communications devices. The content acceleration unit reduces a bandwidth utilization of a backhaul link in a wireless communications system by compressing blocks of data provided by a content provider based on a request from a user.

An advantage of an embodiment is that bandwidth utilization over a backhaul link of a wireless communications system may be significantly reduced which may allow the wireless communications system to support a larger number of users. Furthermore with the reduced bandwidth utilization an operator of the wireless communications system may be able to delay upgrades to the infrastructure of the wireless communications system thereby reducing costs.

A further advantage of an embodiment is that there is no protocol barrier to reducing the bandwidth utilization of the backhaul link.

Yet another advantage of an embodiment is that small changes in content does not affect the overall performance much since small changes may result in small changes in the cached data.

The foregoing has outlined rather broadly the features and technical advantages of the present invention in order that the detailed description of the embodiments that follow may be better understood. Additional features and advantages of the embodiments will be described hereinafter which form the subject of the claims of the invention. It should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that the conception and specific embodiments disclosed may be readily utilized as a basis for modifying or designing other structures or processes for carrying out the same purposes of the present invention. It should also be realized by those skilled in the art that such equivalent constructions do not depart from the spirit and scope of the invention as set forth in the appended claims.

The making and using of the presently preferred embodiments are discussed in detail below. It should be appreciated however that the present invention provides many applicable inventive concepts that can be embodied in a wide variety of specific contexts. The specific embodiments discussed are merely illustrative of specific ways to make and use the invention and do not limit the scope of the invention.

The present invention will be described with respect to preferred embodiments in a specific context namely a wireless communications system that supports communications devices with data capability i.e. third generation 3G and fourth generation 4G communications devices. The invention may also be applied however to wireless communications systems that support data capable communications devices in general.

eNB may be connected by link to a content aware device CAD such as a radio network controller RNC serving GPRS support node SGSN or gateway GPRS support node GGSN . Additional examples of a CAD may be a Long Term Evolution LTE service architecture evolution SAE gateway a packet gateway a content access router or an IP router. Link may be commonly referred to as a backhaul link. Typically the connection between eNB and RNC SGSN GGSN may be a wireline connection for example a low bandwidth connection e.g. a T1 or E1 link or a high bandwidth connection e.g. point to point fiber or microwave link . While high bandwidth connections are available due to economic reasons e.g. deployment costs low bandwidth connections still dominate. Although shown as a single entity RNC SGSN GGSN may be separate entities or a combination thereof.

RNC SGSN GGSN may be connected to a first router which in turn may be connected to a network . Network may be the Internet a private network or a combination thereof. Network may be connected to a second router which may be connected to a content provider a data center or so forth. First router network second router content provider and data center may make up a core network . Interconnectivity between components of core network is generally made up of high bandwidth wireline connections and typically does not present a limitation to the performance of wireless communications system .

A connection between UE and either content provider or data center may be a single TCP session wherein a TCP packet may be transported from content provider or data center to UE or vice versa. Although the TCP packet may take multiple hops between content provider or data center to UE the TCP packet traverses single TCP session .

Since wireless connections e.g. link generally may not be capable of supporting as much bandwidth as a wireline connection the wireless connection may be a bottleneck of wireless communications system . However since a wireless connection between UE and eNB is generally not shared with others the wireless connection may not be a significant bottleneck.

Although a backhaul link e.g. link may be a wireline connection with a considerably higher bandwidth than a wireless link e.g. link eNB may serve a large number of UEs with each UE having one or more active connection to core network . As an example let link be a 1 Mbps link but if eNB is serving UEs with each demanding maximum bandwidth each UE may be allocated a maximum bandwidth of 50 kbps which may or may not be adequate for the applications executing on the UEs. Therefore an aggregate bandwidth from each UE being served by eNB may exceed the bandwidth of the backhaul link thereby making the backhaul link significant bottleneck of wireless communications system .

Even as providers are planning to replace low bandwidth backhaul links with high bandwidth backhaul links a coverage area of an eNB is becoming smaller. It is predicted that micro or pico eNBs will become significant players in next generation wireless communications systems. Smaller coverage areas imply an increased number of eNBs in order to provide a similar degree of coverage and increasing the number of eNBs also increases the number of backhaul links. Therefore to reduce deployment costs providers may continue to use low bandwidth backhaul links.

By breaking up a single TCP session such as TCP session into multiple TCP sessions it may be easier to control as well as modify information being transported on the TCP sessions. For example if TCP packets are transported over a single TCP session in order to modify information being transported over the single TCP session it may be necessary to monitor all TCP traffic occurring over the single TCP session buffer desired TCP traffic modify the desired TCP traffic and re inject the modified TCP traffic back into the single TCP session.

However if the single TCP session were to be broken up into multiple TCP sessions with a first session terminating at a point where TCP packets are to be inspected and modified and a second session originating at the point then it may not be necessary to actively monitor all TCP traffic since TCP traffic occurring over the first session would automatically be buffered where the TCP traffic may be inspected and modified as needed and then injected into the second TCP session.

According to an embodiment wireless intelligent content acceleration WICA units and may be added to both ends of link i.e. the backhaul link to reduce backhaul link bandwidth utilization. As shown in eNB is at a first end of the backhaul link and RNC SGSN GGSN is at a second end of the backhaul link. Although shown in to be attached to eNB and RNC SGSN GGSN WICA units and may be implemented as integral part of eNB and RNC SGSN GGSN for example WICA units and may be implemented as software hardware or firmware in eNB and RNC SGSN GGSN .

According to an alternative embodiment WICA units and may be standalone hardware positioned on the backhaul link between eNB and RNC SGSN GGSN . According to yet another alternative embodiment WICA units and may be implemented differently. As an example WICA unit may be implemented as software hardware or firmware in eNB while WICA unit may be implemented as a standalone hardware positioned on the backhaul link between eNB and RNC SGSN GGSN .

According to yet another alternative embodiment WICA units and may partially implemented as software hardware or firmware in eNB and RNC SGSN GGSN and partially as standalone hardware positioned on the backhaul link between eNB and RNC SGSN GGSN . WICA units and may be implemented purely in software an add on service card a standalone hardware device or a combination thereof.

WICA units and may be used to monitor intercept and redirect TCP traffic to divide data payloads into multiple blocks of a specified size to generate a signature for each block based on a signature generating function to compare signatures for a block with stored signatures that are stored in a cache like manner. WICA units and may also be used to retrieve stored data based on a signature. Furthermore WICA units and may be used to create and maintain user flow signature UFS profiles for users UEs wherein the UFS may be used to guide relaying between UE and CAD. The UFS profile includes a User device ID e.g. MAC address of user device a Flow ID e.g. IP address port ID or H IP address Port ID where H is a hash function a Signature of the data flow or a combination thereof.

WICA units and may not need to implement identical operations. For example since in some applications such as web browsing a disproportional amount of backhaul bandwidth may be dedicated to transmissions to UE as opposed to transmissions from UE . In such a situation WICA unit may not need to implement a full set of WICA operations. For example WICA unit may not need to be able to divide data payloads generate signatures and so forth. Similarly WICA unit located at or near RNC SGSN GGSN may not need to restore stored data based on a signature. Although the capabilities of the WICA units may not need to be identical the WICA units spanning the backhaul link need to be compatible symmetrically to ensure compatibility of the operations. Furthermore in applications wherein backhaul bandwidth is about equal the WICA units spanning the backhaul link may have identical capability as well as symmetrically compatible.

The use of WICA can significantly increase the capacity of backhaul links as well as reduce round trip time delays and packet loss ratios. Therefore WICA can help solve the bandwidth bottleneck at the backhaul link.

Communications controller may include a receive unit that may be used to receive incoming information generally in the form of IP packets. Communications controller may also include a transmit unit that may be used to transmit outgoing information. Receive unit and transmit unit may be wireline and or wireless units. In general TCP packets may arrive at communications controller through receive unit and may leave communications controller through transmit unit .

Communications controller also includes a control unit . Control unit may be implemented using a general purpose or special purpose processor or controller combinatorial logic state machines or a combination thereof. Control unit may be used to control the operation of communications controller . For example if communications controller is an eNB then control unit may be used to grant and schedule transmission opportunities to UEs served by control unit process attach requests participate in handovers and so forth while if communications controller is a CAD then control unit may be used to compute routes based on a routing function detect faults serve as anchors for UEs and so on.

Communications controller also includes a memory that may be used to store configuration information routing information UE specific information scratch memory buffer space for transmissions and so forth. Memory may be a combination of read only memory random access memory programmable read only memory and so on.

Communications controller also includes a WICA unit for use as a content acceleration unit. As shown in WICA unit may be implemented as a number of discrete units with each discrete unit used for specific WICA operations. WICA unit may also be implemented as a single unit that may be used for a combination of specific WICA operations. Therefore also the discussion focuses on a number of discrete units WICA unit may be implemented as a single unit or a number of units with some units being used for several specific WICA operations.

According to an embodiment WICA unit may be used to perform inspection and interception of TCP flows process TCP flow signatures and content cache between eNB and CAD. Specifically WICA unit may perform the following operations 1 TCP traffic interception and re direction 2 TCP payload division and signature generation 3 Content cache handling and 4 TCP payload compression and decompression.

WICA unit when implemented as a number of discrete units with each discrete unit used for specific WICA operations may include a traffic intercept re direct unit a payload divide signature generate unit a cache data handler unit and a payload compress decompress unit . Although illustrates four discrete units in WICA unit it may be possible to further divide some of the units into sub units or combine some of the units into super units. Therefore the illustration and discussion of four discrete units should not be construed as being limiting to either the scope or the spirit of the embodiments.

Traffic intercept re direct unit may be used to intercept and re direct all or selected TCP traffic to other units in WICA unit . Traffic intercept re direct unit may reside in an eNB or a CAD. Alternatively the WICA device may also reside in the eNB or the CAD or be external to the eNB or the CAD as a separate standalone unit. Examples of protocols used to re direct the TCP traffic may include 1. web cache communications protocol e.g. WCCP 2.0 2. a proprietary proxy re direction protocol 3. an internal application programming interface API or so forth.

According to an embodiment traffic intercept re direct unit or equivalent unit may already be present in some communications controllers. If traffic intercept re direct unit is already present in a communications controller traffic intercept re direct unit may not be included in WICA unit .

With a wireless device such as an eNB or a RNC where traditionally TCP packets are not exposed some additional processing may need to be performed to extract TCP packets from radio wave protocols and trunk tunnel protocols. For example in an eNB deep packet inspection DPI may be used to identify TCP flows from a protocol stack such as with either a packet data convergence protocol PDCP for an air interface to UEs or GPRS tunneling protocol user data tunneling GTP U for a trunk interface to the RNC or a gateway and an interworking function IWF module may be implemented to decapsulate encapsulate IP packets between WICA unit and PDCP GTP U relay modules. The IWF module may intercept TCP flows re direct the TCP flows to other units in WICA unit to perform WICA processing and re dispatch the TCP flows to PDCP GTP U protocol stack.

Payload divide signature generate unit may be used to receive and process TCP traffic re directed by traffic intercept re direct unit . Once payload divide signature generate unit receives TCP traffic payload divide signature generate unit break the TCP session into three TCP sessions. The breaking of the TCP session into three TCP sessions may involve payload divide signature generate unit replacing an original TCP destination address contained in the TCP traffic with its own address foaming a first TCP session. Payload divide signature generate unit may then create a second TCP session between itself and its remote peer e.g. an alternate payload divide signature generate unit located at the CAD if payload divide signature generate unit is located at an eNB or an alternate payload divide signature generate unit at the eNB if payload divide signature generate unit is located at a CAD . The remote peer of payload divide signature generate unit may then create a third TCP session connecting itself to the original TCP destination address.

In general a TCP session between a UE and a server that is intercepted by WICA unit may be broken down into three TCP sessions with one TCP session between the UE and a WICA unit located at an eNB serving the UE another TCP session between the WICA unit located at the eNB and a WICA unit located at a CAD and another TCP session between WICA unit located at the CAD and the server.

Once payload divide signature generate unit gets the re directed TCP session broken down into three separate TCP sessions payload divide signature generate unit may examine a data payload carried in the three separate TCP sessions and divide break up the data payload into smaller blocks. An algorithm used to divide the data payload may divide the data payload into fixed sized blocks. Alternatively the algorithm may divide the data payload into variable sized blocks based on specified binary patterns for example. A maximum size may be specified for the blocks with a preferred maximum size being about 400 bytes.

After the data payload has been divided into a number of blocks a signature may be generated for each block. An algorithm used to generate the signatures should ensure that unique signatures be generated for distinct blocks. According to an embodiment a hash algorithm such as a MD5 like hash algorithm may be used on each block to generate a six byte long signature. The signature may be used later for content cache look up reduction of backhaul link bandwidth utilization and so forth.

Cache data handler unit may be used to maintain a content cache. Content cache may be stored in a memory local to WICA unit or it may be formed out of memory . Content cache may be relatively large in size and since extremely fast memory may not be needed content cache may be formed out of secondary memory such as magnetic disk storage memory without having to use extremely high speed memory used in a normal cache.

Cache data handler unit may be used to perform signature queries to the content cache. A signature table may be preserved in a memory again local to WICA unit or part of memory that contains pairings consisting of signatures and disk storage locations. Each pairing consists of a signature to a block of data and a location on a disk where the block of data is stored. When a new signature is received cache data handler unit may insert the signature into the signature table if the signature table is not full. Cache data handler unit may also store a block of data associated with the signature in the content cache and store a location of the block of data in the signature table.

If the signature table is full and the signature is not already in the signature table then cache data handler unit may need to replace an existing signature in the signature table to make room to store the signature. According to an embodiment any of a wide range of replacement algorithms such as first in first out signature age signature use recent usage or so on may be used to select a signature to be replaced.

According to an embodiment when a first signature is received insert the first signature into the signature table unless the signature table is full. If the signature table is full select a signature for removal using a replacement algorithm. If the first signature is already in the signature table i.e. the first signature matches a signature already stored in the signature table the first signature alone may be stored in a signature data buffer which may also be local to WICA unit or a part of memory . When a second signature associated with another block of data from the same TCP session as the first signature arrives search the signature table for the second signature. If the second signature is not in the signature table add the second signature to the signature table save a block of data associated with the second signature to the content cache and save both the second signature and the block of data associated with the second signature to the signature data buffer. Repeat until all blocks of data from the TCP session have been processed.

With all of the blocks of data from the TCP session processed WICA unit may send the contents of the signature data buffer to its peer WICA unit. The peer WICA unit may use the contents of the signature data buffer and its own content cache to reconstruct the blocks of data of the TCP session. The peer WICA unit may then send the blocks of data of the TCP session to an intended destination of the TCP session.

According to an alternative embodiment rather than processing all of the blocks of data from a TCP session at once WICA unit and cache data handler unit may process a single block of data from the TCP session at a time and the signature or the signature and the block of data may be transmitted to the peer WICA unit for reconstruction.

In an optimal condition cache data handler unit may find all of the signatures associated with the blocks of data of the TCP session already located in the signature table. When all of the signatures are already in the signature table the signature data buffer will only contain signatures. Therefore only signatures are transported to the peer WICA unit thus achieving a maximum TCP acceleration and minimum backhaul link bandwidth utilization.

According to an embodiment if a number of blocks of data or associated signatures are found in the signature table in a continuous block it may be possible to generate a signature for the continuous block which may be transmitted. The signature for the continuous block may be a signature for the signatures thereby creating a super compressed data block from the number of blocks of data.

Payload compress decompress unit may be used to compress blocks of data that have signatures not already in the signature table. As discussed previously if a block of data has a signature that is not in the signature table the block of data and its signature will be transported to the peer WICA unit. However instead of transporting the block of data in uncompressed form the block of data may be compressed prior to transmission. Depending on the type of data in the block of data and a compression algorithm being used compressing the block of data prior to transmission may reduce the amount of data being transmitted by a significant percentage up to 90 percent in some cases.

At the peer WICA unit a corresponding payload compress decompress unit may be used to decompress the compressed data. According to an embodiment the corresponding payload compress decompress unit may use the same algorithm or a corresponding decompression algorithm to decompress the compressed data.

WICA unit also includes a memory . Since WICA unit and communications controller are not integrated into a single unit using memory located in communications controller may result in very long memory access times which may negatively impact performance. Therefore WICA unit may have its own memory for use in storing content cache signature table signature data buffer scratch memory and so forth. Memory may include read only memory random access memory secondary memory and so on.

Backhaul link bandwidth utilization may be improved through TCP Receive Window RWIN size control packet loss control and so forth. When considering RWIN throughput may be less than or equal to RWIN RTT where RTT is round trip time. Senders should have consistent window size in order to have reliable re transmission. If RTT is reduced by 50 or more throughput will increase significantly. When considering packet loss throughput may be less than or equal to MSS RTT square root over Ploss where MSS is a maximum segment size and Ploss is a probability of packet loss. If a TCP session is terminated at a wireless gateway or a co located box then a TCP re transmission RTT may be shorted Ploss is reduced and packet loss performance is greatly improved.

CDN sends the specific content to first client as well as placing the specific content in the content cache. A second client then requests the same specific content which may be intercepted and forwarded to CDN . CDN detects a content cache hit and fetches the specific content from the content cache and serves the specific content to the second client. According to an embodiment CDN may need to inform an origin server OS when it is serving the second client. Interaction between clients such as first client and content providers such as content provider may occur through a service provider interface SPI and a deep packet inspection DPI unit.

WICA unit operations may begin with the WICA unit receiving data from a TCP session block . The data may be as a result of a request from a UE. As an example the UE may have requested a video to be streamed to the UE a file to be downloaded to the UE or so on. The WICA unit may divide the data into multiple blocks block . According to an embodiment the data may be divided into multiple blocks with each block being the same size. Alternatively variable sized blocks may be used. As an example the data may be divided into blocks that are 250 bytes in size.

The amount of compression may be based on the size of the blocks of data. As an example if a block of data is 240 bytes in size then a compression ratio of 1 6 240 97.5 may be achieved. Similarly if a block of data is 600 bytes in size then a compression ratio of 99 is possible while if a block of data is 6000 bytes in size then a compression ratio of 99.9 is possible. However with larger block of data sizes the hit ratio may suffer.

The WICA unit may select a block for processing block . According to an embodiment the WICA unit may select the blocks from the multiple blocks in numerical order. The WICA unit may then generate a signature for the selected block block . As discussed previously the WICA unit may use any of a variety of signature generating functions as long as the signature generating function ensures that a unique block will produce a unique signature. An example of the signature generating function may be a MD5 like hashing function or some other similar hashing function that generates a six byte long signature from a block of data.

As part of content cache management the WICA unit may when the content cache or memory used to store the content cache is approaching a specified capacity execute a content cache purging policy may be applied to remove some signatures and associated blocks of data. Removal of the signatures and associated blocks of data may provide space for new signatures and their associated blocks of data. The purging policy may be based on a first in first out FIFO a least recently used LRU a segmented LRU a least frequently used LFU or some other technique.

The WICA unit may search in a content cache to determine if the signature is already stored in the content cache block . If the signature is already in the content cache then the WICA unit has already processed an identical block previously. The WICA unit may store the signature alone in a signature data buffer block .

The content cache may need to be large to provide a good hit rate but since the content cache is required only at the WICA units only a relatively small number of content caches are needed. As an example if the content cache is to be 500 gigabytes in size with each block of data being 400 bytes then 2 giga signatures are needed or 12 gigabytes of storage is needed for the 2 giga signatures when each signature is six bytes in size . Compression and special access search algorithms may be utilized to reduce the size of the content cache as well as the storage for the signatures.

However if the signature is not already stored in the content cache block then the WICA unit has not already processed an identical block previously or it has been such a long time that the signature has been removed from the content cache . The WICA unit may save the signature and the block to the content cache and store the signature and the block to the signature data buffer block . According to an embodiment since the signature generating function is available at all WICA units in a wireless communications system it may not be necessary to save the signature in the signature data buffer if the block of data is saved in the signature data buffer. A WICA unit that receives the block of data may be able to generate the signature from the block of data using its own signature generating function which is identical to the other signature generating functions used in the wireless communications system .

The WICA unit may then perform a check to determine if all of the blocks in the multiple blocks have been processed block . If not all of the blocks have been processed then the WICA unit may return to block to select another block from the multiple blocks and repeat the signature generation block signature in content cache determination block and updating signature data buffer and content cache block .

If all of the blocks have been processed block then the WICA unit may send the contents of the signature data buffer to a WICA unit at a client end of the TCP session block . The WICA unit may then perform a check to determine if additional data has arrived block . If additional data has arrived then the WICA unit may return to block to receive the data. If additional data has not arrived then WICA unit operations may terminate.

According to an embodiment instead of waiting until the processing of every block in the multiple blocks is complete the WICA unit may send a result of block immediately to the WICA unit at the client end of the TCP session after each block has been processed. By immediately transmitting the result of block either a signature alone or a signature and block the signature data buffer may be eliminated.

According to another embodiment instead of saving the signature and the block of data in the signature data buffer the WICA unit may save only the block of data in the signature data buffer. The WICA unit may then send the WICA unit at the client end of the TCP session where the signature may be regenerated from the block of data.

WICA unit operations may begin with the WICA unit receiving a transmission from a WICA unit at a content end of the TCP session block . Depending on a content cache the transmission may either be a signature alone or a signature and a block of data. The WICA unit may perform a check to determine a nature of the transmission block .

If the transmission contains only a signature then the WICA unit may use the signature to reference its own content cache to retrieve a block of data associated with the signature block . If the transmission contains both a signature and a block of data then the WICA unit may process the transmission by saving the signature and the block of data in the content cache block . Processing the transmission may further include sending the block of data to an intended recipient of the block of data e.g. a UE that requested the data. WICA unit operations may then terminate.

According to an embodiment if the transmission contains only a block of data processing of the transmission may further include generating a signature from the block of data prior to saving the block of data and the signature now generated at the WICA unit receiving the transmission instead of being included in the transmission to the content cache.

According to an alternative embodiment rather than processing a transmission in a singular fashion the WICA unit may wait to receive multiple transmissions and then process the multiple transmissions at the same time. As an example the WICA unit may process the received transmissions in an order in which the transmissions are received in an order in which the transmissions are transmitted in an order as specified by an ordering scheme specified in the transmissions or so on.

WICA unit operations may begin with the WICA unit receiving a request for content from a client where the content is not already present in its content cache block . The WICA unit may create a user flow signature UFS for the client block . The UFS may be used to guide content cache compression multi client support as well as context switches for mobility handover support. The UFS may be a portion of a content cache that is used to store signatures associated with a client or clients. After the UFS for the client has been created the WICA unit may be ready to transmit the content to the client.

The WICA unit may begin to receive data corresponding to the content from a TCP session block . The data may be as a result of the request from the client. As an example the client may have requested a video to be streamed to the client a file to be downloaded to the client or so on. The WICA unit may divide the data into multiple blocks block . According to an embodiment the data may be divided into multiple blocks with each block being the same size. Alternatively variable sized blocks may be used.

The WICA unit may select a block for processing block . According to an embodiment the WICA unit may select the blocks from the multiple blocks in numerical order. The WICA unit may then generate a signature for the selected block block . As discussed previously the WICA unit may use any of a variety of signature generating functions as long as the signature generating function ensures that a unique block will produce a unique signature. An example of the signature generating function may be a MD5 like hashing function.

The WICA unit may search in a content cache to determine if the signature is already stored in the content cache block . If the signature is already in the content cache then the WICA unit has already processed an identical block previously. The WICA unit may update the UFS for the client as well as store the signature alone in a signature data buffer block .

However if the signature is not already stored in the content cache block then the WICA unit has not already processed an identical block previously or it has been such a long time that the signature has been removed from the content cache . The WICA unit may save the signature and the block to the UFS as well as store the signature and the block to the signature data buffer block .

According to an embodiment since the signature generating function is available at all WICA units in a wireless communications system it may not be necessary to save the signature in the signature data buffer if the block of data is saved in the signature data buffer. A WICA unit that receives the block of data may be able to generate the signature from the block of data using its own signature generating function which is identical to the other signature generating functions used in the wireless communications system .

The WICA unit may then perform a check to determine if all of the blocks in the multiple blocks have been processed block . If not all of the blocks have been processed then the WICA unit may return to block to select another block from the multiple blocks and repeat the signature generation block signature in content cache determination block and updating signature data buffer and content cache block .

If all of the blocks have been processed block then the WICA unit may send the contents of the signature data buffer to a WICA unit at the client end of the TCP session block . The WICA unit may then perform a check to determine if additional data has arrived block . If additional data has arrived then the WICA unit may return to block to receive the data. If additional data has not arrived then WICA unit operations may terminate.

WICA unit operations may begin with the WICA unit receiving a request for content from a client where the content is already been requested recently and therefore is stored in a content cache block . The WICA unit may add the client to the UFS associated with the content block . The WICA unit may then send content corresponding to signatures from the UFS to the client block . The WICA unit may continue to send signature and or data as long as additional data continues to arrive. WICA unit operations may then terminate.

First eNB operations may begin with the first eNB that is serving a client with a UFS changing eNBs for example to the second eNB block . The first eNB may transfer the UFS to the second eNB block and remove UFS entries associated with the client from its own UFS information block . First eNB operations may then terminate.

Second eNB operations may begin with the second eNB detecting that a client that is being served by the first eNB changing to be served by the second eNB block . The second eNB may receive from the first eNB UFS entries associated with the client block .

The second eNB may check the UFS entries provided by the first eNB to determine if signatures in the UFS entries already exist in its own content cache block . If the signatures already exist then the second eNB may add the client to the UFS entries containing the signatures provided by the first eNB block . However if the signatures do not exist in the content cache of the second eNB the second eNB may drop the client s existing TCP session block and establish a new TCP session for the client block . As discussed previously in establishing a new TCP session may entail creating UFS entries for the client.

The second eNB may then relay data from the TCP stream to the client block . According to the embodiment the second eNB may utilize WICA operation where possible to reduce backhaul link bandwidth utilization. Second eNB operations may then terminate.

Although the present invention and its advantages have been described in detail it should be understood that various changes substitutions and alterations can be made herein without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims.

Moreover the scope of the present application is not intended to be limited to the particular embodiments of the process machine manufacture composition of matter means methods and steps described in the specification. As one of ordinary skill in the art will readily appreciate from the disclosure of the present invention processes machines manufacture compositions of matter means methods or steps presently existing or later to be developed that perform substantially the same function or achieve substantially the same result as the corresponding embodiments described herein may be utilized according to the present invention. Accordingly the appended claims are intended to include within their scope such processes machines manufacture compositions of matter means methods or steps.

