---

title: Prioritization of protocol messages at a server
abstract: System(s) and method(s) are provided for prioritizing protocol messages received at a server. A client generates a request message and incorporates a data unit therein in order to indicate type of service application that triggered generation of the request message. The client conveys the request message to a server configured to respond to the request message. To supply data in response to the message request, the server prioritizes the request message based at least on the data unit that conveys the type of service application. The server can assign a set of request messages to a group of scheduling queues based at least on ranking of the type of service associated with at least one request message in the set of request messages. Based on performance conditions, the server also can reject one or more request messages according to the ranking.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09319433&OS=09319433&RS=09319433
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P.
number: 09319433
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100629
---
The subject disclosure relates generally to communication networks and more specifically to prioritization of protocol messages received at a server wherein the prioritization is based at least on feature s of a service client such as application client or a control client that originates the protocol messages.

Various services in advanced networks wireless or wireline rely on packet based protocols for delivery of data and signaling. Such advanced networks generally exploit a group of application servers that generate at least part of the data and signaling that provide content and enable specific functionality associated with a service such as voice over internet protocol VoIP IP multimedia content delivery caller identification ID in IP television etc. In certain architectures the group of servers is deployed in an application layer which is functionally coupled to a control layer that typically includes several session control components that enable a service session e.g. a VoIP call a data call delivery of a pay per view movie . . . . An example of such architecture is 3GPP IP Multimedia System IMS core network. In 3GPP IMS core network a session control component is embodied in a control session control function CSCF node which can be a Serving CSCF S CSCF node Interrogating CSCF I CSCF node a Proxy CSCF P CSCF or a transit function node. In addition in 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE networks a Mobility Management Entity MME can embody a session control component.

To enable in part access of a subscriber device mobile device customer premises equipment etc. to network resources associated with a service application servers session control components or other network nodes generally acquire data from a centralized network repository which operates as a master database. In 3GPP architecture for next generation networks NGN Home Subscriber Server HSS can embody the centralized network repository master user database. A HSS can contain subscription related information subscriber profiles subscriber credentials etc. . In addition the HSS can perform authentication and authorization of a subscriber device and can provide information about the subscriber s location and IP information. HSS also can provide services to call processing nodes such as Call Session Control Functions CSCF or application feature servers in 3GPP IMS core network or 3GPP LTE networks.

Various protocol interfaces such as Diameter protocol interfaces enable access to data in HSS from a client. Such access to data is commonly accomplished via protocol messages which generally are not equally critical or urgent. As an example some Diameter queries from I CSCF or S CSCF are directed to registration or re registration of subscriber devices UEs CPEs etc. . While initial registration is critical for a subscriber device to receive subscribed services re registrations are not equally important and may remain without a response from HSS for a few minutes since a subscriber device typically requests re registration several minutes for example 10 minutes prior to registration expiration. As another example some message requests from I CSCF to HSS are directed to end to end call processing whereas other requests originated in I CSCF are intended to an application that issues message waiting indications.

Additionally in complex large e.g. several thousand nodes next generation network deployments based on 3GPP IMS core network elements or 3GPP LTE network elements performance of HSS can be subjected to various heavy load or overload conditions. When a HSS load is heavy it is desirable for HSS to favor more critical application requests rather than non critical ones. Moreover when a HSS is in an overload condition the HSS can reject or silently drop some request messages it is desirable for the HSS to reject or drop less critical requests first. Yet in conventional network systems it is common for the same client to employ the same type of Diameter message for different service applications directed to access data for different operation purposes. Accordingly management of message requests at HSS typically fails to be efficient.

The following presents a simplified summary of the subject disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects thereof. The subject summary is not an extensive overview of the disclosure and it is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the disclosure nor delineate any scope. The sole purpose of the subject summary is to present some concepts of the disclosure in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented later.

One or more embodiments of the subject disclosure provide system s and method s for prioritizing protocol messages received at a server wherein the protocol messages include an indication a client application that originates the protocol messages. A client generates a request message and incorporates a data unit in the request message the data unit indicates type of service application that triggers generation of the request message. The client conveys the request message to a server in a centralized network repository wherein the server is configured to respond to the request message. To supply data in response to the message request the server prioritizes the request message based at least on the data unit that conveys the type of service application. The server can assign a set of request messages to a group of scheduling queues based at least on ranking of the type of service associated with at least one request message in the set of request messages. In the alternative or in addition the server can assesses performance condition and can reject one or more request messages based at least on a ranking of the type of service associated with the one or more request messages.

Aspects features or advantages of the subject disclosure can be exploited in most any or any packet based core network that relies at least on a request reply messaging exchange with a network repository to access data related to providing packet based service s to a subscriber device. The packet based core network can be part of a wireline or wireless communication network.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the disclosure then comprises the features hereinafter fully described. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of the disclosure. However these aspects are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the subject disclosure may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the subject disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The subject disclosure is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the subject innovation. It may be evident however that the subject innovation may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the subject innovation.

As used in this application the terms component system platform layer node selector interface and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the entity can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server or network controller and the server or network controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. Also these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that confers at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Furthermore in the subject disclosure the term set is intended to refer to groups of one or more entities for example a set of data packets refers to one or more data packets. However as employed herein the term subset can include the empty set unless otherwise noted as in cases in which for instance disclosure of a subset of one or more entities is intended to expressly avoid the empty subset.

Furthermore the terms user subscriber customer consumer prosumer agent and the like are employed interchangeably throughout the subject specification unless context warrants particular distinction s among the terms. It should be appreciated that such terms can refer to human entities or automated components supported through artificial intelligence e.g. a capacity to make inference based on complex mathematical formalisms which can provide simulated vision sound recognition and so forth.

With reference to the drawings is a schematic example network system that can operate in accordance with aspects described herein. A packet based core network provides a variety of services to a subscriber. The services include numerous packet based services e.g. IP based services comprising VoIP video exchange digital music exchange digital photograph exchange IP Television IPTV clips or most any or any packetized digital content. In one or more embodiments packet based core network is a 3GPP IMS core network. Service can be provided at least in part via a protocol for session establishment such as session initiation protocol SIP or the H. suite of signaling protocols. Packet based core network includes a control layer that enables session establishment control and routing functionality for service sessions. Sessions primarily include data sessions for example VoIP call sessions. Control layer can receive signaling that conveys a request to establish a session call session data session etc. and in response to such request routes the session to one or more application servers e.g. application server s . Control layer includes one or more session control node s . In example network system the one or more application servers ASs are part of a set of application servers that are deployed within an application layer . The one or more ASs can include SIP AS s IP Multimedia Service Switching Function IM SSF server s Customized Applications for Mobile Networks Enhanced Logic CAMEL server s or OSA Service Capability Server s . In addition as illustrated packet based core network includes gateway nodes comprising circuit switched CS gateway node s and packet switched PS gateway node s for example embodiments in which packet based core network is a 3GPP IMS core network CS gateway node s can include Signaling Gateway node s SWG and PS gateway node s can include Media Gateway MGW node s .

As part of the providing a service to a subscriber device a mobile device a customer premises equipment etc. packet based core network can acquire e.g. extract receive data from a centralized network repository . Data acquired from the centralized network repository can be utilized by packet based core network to allocate network resources to a subscriber device. The centralized network repository includes one or more server s and a centralized data storage functionally coupled to the one or more server s . The centralized data storage comprises subscriber data subscriber profiles subscriber credentials etc. . In an aspect centralized data storage operates as a central logical unit even though can be geographically distributed. In addition centralized data storage affords various redundancy mechanisms for data integrity such as storage pairs. In embodiments in which packet based core network is a 3GPP IMS core network or a 3GPP LTE network the centralized network repository is a Home Subscriber Server in such embodiments the HSS can be a complex large system with multiple servers e.g. server s deployed in multiple functional layers comprising a variety of modules that provide functionality to the HSS.

Acquisition of data from centralized network repository can be enabled at least in part through interface s . Interface s can include components that enable exchange of data and signaling amongst the packet based core network and the centralized network repository in accordance with various access protocols Kerberos protocol Remote Authentication Dial In User Service RADIUS protocol Terminal Access Controller Access Control System Plus TACACS protocol Diameter protocol Lightweight Directory Access Protocol LDAP etc. and related transport protocols Transmission Control Protocol TCP Stream Control Transmission Protocol SCTP etc. . Features of exchange of data and signaling can be specific to the network element or network node in packet based core network CN that communicates with centralized network repository and one or more servers therein such features can be provided through execution of one or more procedures in the network element. Accordingly interface s can enable at least in part a plurality of interfaces such as Cx Sh Si Dx Dh Sha or the like. Interface s Interface s can be embodied in at least one of conventional link s e.g. a fiber optic link an Ethernet link a T1 E1 line wireless link s . . . reference link s e.g. Gi Gn . . . or one or more components of an access network not shown which can be wireline or wireless and private semiprivate or public.

A network element in packet based core network can be a client component or client of the centralized network repository if an access protocol interface is available to the network element. For a network element that includes at least one procedure e.g. a set of computer executable instructions and at least one component configured to execute the at least one procedure the access protocol interface is available. As an example in an embodiment in which packet based CN is a 3GPP IMS core network and centralized network repository is a HSS a network element can be a HSS client if a Diameter protocol interface is available to the network element S CSCF nodes I CSCF nodes P CSCF nodes application servers are HSS clients. Accordingly exchange of data and signaling amongst such network element and a server in the set of servers represented as server s can occur in accordance with various client server modalities. In an aspect at least one client in the set of servers can receive a plurality of protocol messages from a client and in response the at least one server can supply one or more protocol messages. Aspects or features of the subject disclosure can be implemented in front end servers and scheduling modules therein that interface with HSS clients directly. Various features or aspects of exchange of protocol messages amongst a client in packet based core network and a server in centralized network repository are described next.

In the illustrated embodiment the client component includes a request source component that can initiate a message associated with the access control protocol e.g. Kerberos protocol Diameter protocol LDAP in response to a request for service not shown received at the client component . In an aspect the message can be a request message that is specific to the access control protocol network attachment protocol AAA protocol etc. for example the request message can be a Diameter request message such as Location Info Request LIR Multimedia Authorization Request MAR Server Assignment Request SAR or the like. A request message can include a data unit that conveys a type of service provided by the client and the elicited generation of the request message. The data unit can be an attribute value pair AVP however data units other than AVPs also can be utilized. In an aspect client can exploit a set of data units retained in memory in the illustrated embodiment memory includes an attribute storage comprising a collection of sets of attributes e.g. set of attributes with K a positive integer that can be specific to a message request LIR MAR SAR etc. . At least one attribute in at least one such set of attributes can be an AVP. The collection is provisioned by a network operator that deploys e.g. installs configures tests and approves the client . In certain embodiments the collection may be referred to as a dictionary of attributes and can be specific to the network operator. The network operator can administer e.g. own and manage or lease and manage a packet based core network e.g. 3GPP IMS core network that includes client e.g. S CSCF . In addition one or more sets of attributes in the collection are configurable and extensible e.g. a set of attributes can be augmented or reduced and can be specific to characteristics of the network deployed and administered by the network operator.

Request source component generates a request message and incorporates a data unit e.g. attribute value pair that characterizes the type of service that originated the request message the attribute is one of the attributes in collection . In contrast to conventional systems request source component produces a request message that allows server to distinguish amongst the same type of message requests issued by client . As an illustration it should be appreciated that in a conventional e.g. standardized system e.g. HSS in a 3GPP network a S CSCF node employs the same MAR and SAR messages for initial registration and re registration processing while I CSCF uses the same LIR message for call processing and notification for message waiting in some implementation. In the subject disclosure such messages can be readily distinguished through the data unit and can be incorporated in such messages.

In certain embodiments e.g. example embodiment illustrated in request source component includes a request composition component that generates the request message and identifies the service application or client application that triggers the request message for instance client can be an I CSCF node and the service application can be Call Processing. In an aspect request component component selects an attribute name as part of an AVP intended to characterize the type of service that originated the message request. In an aspect the attribute name can be App Type even though other names can be employed. In addition request composition component conveys such identification to attribute manager component also referred to as attribute manager in the subject disclosure. In response and based at least on the identification of the service application the attribute manager extracts an attribute value from attribute storage and supplies the attribute value to request composition component . Request composition component incorporates the attribute value in the AVP intended to characterize the type of service and generates a message request which can be a Diameter protocol request message such as LIR MAR SAR.

To elicit generation of the request message e.g. Diameter request message client can execute one or more procedures that embody a service application also referred to as service. As an example the service application can be an application that allows Initial Registration of a device mobile or otherwise or an application that allows Re registration of the device. As another example the request for service not shown can be a request for end to end session processing. As yet another example the request for service not shown can be a request to issue e.g. generate and deliver a message waiting indication. In conventional systems e.g. 3GPP IMS core network and HSS a client can issue a single Diameter message request for a plurality of disparate service applications wherein the client delivers the single Diameter message request to a server in a centralized network repository. In contrast example client server system issues request message s that can convey a type of service via the data unit that discloses the type of service that provokes generation of the request message and thus allows server to distinguish request messages of the same type yet elicited in response to execution of disparate service applications.

The request source component can convey the request message to interface component which can deliver the request message to server . It should be appreciated that interface component also can deliver reply or answer messages. Interface component can be particular to client and can execute a group of procedures e.g. a software application or a firmware application to implement a specific interface that allows exchange e.g. delivery and reception of data and signaling with server . The group of procedures can be retained in interface code also referred to as interface as part of protocol storage in memory code in interface is computer executable code. As an example in embodiments in which client is an application server interface component can implement at least in part a Sh interface. As another example in embodiments in which client is a S CSCF node interface component can implement at least in part a Cx interface. As yet another example interface component can implement a Si interface in case client is embodied in IM SSF node.

In the illustrated example embodiment client includes one or more processor s configured to provide or that provide at least part of the described functionality of request source component and interface component . The one or more processor s can execute computer executable code instructions not shown in stored in memory to provide the described functionality of client . Such computer executable code instructions can include program modules or software application s or firmware application s that implement for example several of the methods described in the subject disclosure and associated at least in part with functionality of client . It should be appreciated that each of the one or more processor s can be a centralized element or a distributed element. In distributed scenarios the one or more processor s can be part of the various components that comprise client . Memory also stores data such as data structures data objects metadata numerical variables and parameters logical variables or the like. In addition processor s memory and the various components within client can exchange data and signaling via bus . In an aspect bus can be embodied in one or more of a system bus an address bus a message bus a memory bus a power bus in accordance with various hardware firmware or software implementations.

With respect to server interface component can receive protocol messages from client . To receive such messages interface component can execute a group of procedures e.g. a software application or a firmware application that implement an interface that enables exchange of data and signaling with client the interface is specific to the client e.g. Sx Sh Si or the like. The group of procedures can be retained in interface code also referred to as interface as part of protocol storage in memory code in interface is computer executable code. In an aspect interface component receives a request message that includes an indication of the type of service that triggered the request message as described supra. The interface component can supply the request message to scheduler component which exploits such indication of the type of service to prioritize a group of one or more request messages in accordance with a scheduling policy. As illustrated the scheduling policy can be retained in scheduling policy storage within memory .

The scheduling policy not shown can be based at least on an indication of type of service. In addition the scheduling policy also can be based on at least on a class of service COS prioritization scheme. Moreover the scheduling policy also can exploit one or more overload protection mechanisms. In addition the scheduling policy not shown can be specific to architecture e.g. software application s or hardware component s of server . In an embodiment server can support multiple scheduling queues for incoming tasks. In such embodiment and based in part on the indication of type of service e.g. App Type attribute and related value the scheduling policy not shown can enable scheduler component for example to rank and assign incoming message requests to different scheduling queues based at least in part on priority of a type of service provided by client . Priority of the type of service can be established by one or more operational criteria. In an additional or alternative embodiment the scheduling policy not shown based at least on the indication of type of service e.g. App Type information can be part of an overload protection mechanism s method s component s or combination thereof available to server . The overload protection mechanism s mitigate overload condition s or remediate e.g. recover from overload condition s . Values adopted by a group of key performance indicators KPIs of the server can reveal overload or non overload condition if at least one KPI in such group is above a predetermined threshold an overload condition is reached. Severity of the overload condition can be dictated by the number of KPIs that are above threshold. The group of KPIs can include a number of active processes or threads e.g. processor load a number of current or nearly current request messages virtual memory usage physical memory used. In situation s in which the server is in overload condition such scheduling policy not shown can enable server to select one or more request messages to be rejected or dropped.

In the illustrated example embodiment server includes one or more processor s configured to provide or that provide at least part of the described functionality of scheduler component and interface component . The one or more processor s can execute computer executable code instructions not shown in stored in memory to provide the described functionality of server . Such computer executable code instructions can include program modules or software application s or firmware application s that implement for example various of the methods described in the subject disclosure and associated at least in part with functionality of server . It should be appreciated that each of the one or more processor s can be a centralized element or a distributed element. In distributed scenarios the one or more processor s can be part of the various components that comprise server . Memory also stores data such as data structures data objects metadata numerical variables and parameters logical variables or the like. In addition processor s memory and the various components within server can exchange data and signaling via bus . In an aspect bus can be embodied in one or more of a system bus an address bus a message bus a memory bus a power bus in accordance with various hardware firmware or software implementations.

Example Diameter protocol message includes a Version field of 1 octet 8 bits scale represents a span of 32 bits. For example the Version field can be set to 1 e.g. 00000001 to indicate Diameter Version 1. To disclose the length of the Diameter message including the header fields a Message Length field comprising three octets is also included in the example Diameter protocol message . In addition a 1 octet field represents a Command Flags field . Each bit in the Command Flags field can be assigned as follows If bit is set to R then the example Diameter protocol message is a request message if bit is set to P then the example Diameter protocol message may be proxied relayed or redirected if bit is set to E then the example Diameter protocol message contains a protocol error and is referred to as error message such bit is not configured in a request message bit set to R if bit is set to T then the example Diameter protocol message is a potentially re transmitted message. Bits in the Command Flags field are commonly reserved r for customized utilization of the example Diameter protocol message .

The example Diameter protocol message also includes a Command Code field which spans three octets and conveys a command associated with the example Diameter protocol message . Furthermore a four octet Application Identifier ID field is included to specify an application to which the example Diameter message applies the application can be an authentication application an accounting application or a vendor specific application. Application ID field can adopt a value within a first range of hexadecimal numbers established by Internet Assigned Numbers Authority IANA for standardized applications or a value within a second range of hexadecimal numbers determined by IANA for vendor specific applications or services. A vendor specific value can be assigned a SMI Network Management Private Enterprise Codes value encoded in network byte order. Further yet a four octet Hop by Hop Identifier field and a four octet End to End Identifier field can be included to enable respectively matching requests and replies and detecting duplicate messages.

Additionally example Diameter protocol message includes a set of 32 bit Attribute Value Pair AVP fields such set is labeled with numeral and referred to herein as set of AVPs . Such AVPs encapsulate information relevant to the example Diameter message . In an aspect of the subject disclosure an AVP field that discloses a type of application or service that elicits generation of the example Diameter protocol message is added in the set of AVPs AVP field can be incorporated in response to setting bit R in the Command Flag field . As indicated supra the subject AVP field is unavailable in conventional Diameter protocol messages.

As an illustration AVP field can be formed by an attribute name App Type and an attribute value Att value characteristic of the client application or client service that triggers a request message. In an aspect various attribute values can be defined for various request messages diagram in presents an example set of attribute values for attribute name App Type applicable to respective Diameter request messages. As described supra the AVP fields determined by App Type Att value can be employed in AAA protocol s other than Diameter protocol. In addition such AVP fields can be utilized in one or more authentication protocols e.g. Kerberos protocol . As illustrated in diagram and based on attribute values of App Type Diameter request messages Multimedia Auth Request MAR Command Code 303 and Server Assignment Request SAR Command Code 301 when triggered in response to execution of an Initial Registration application can be distinguished from MAR and SAR requests triggered in response to execution of a Re Registration application. A message request elicited by execution of Initial Registration application includes an INI REG value for App Type whereas a request message originated from execution of Re Registration can include a RE REG value for App Type . Similarly Diameter message request User Authorization Request UAR triggered by Initial Registration can be distinguished from UAR triggered by Re Registration. Additionally or alternatively Diameter message request Location Info Request LIR can be distinguished through disparate assignment of Att value i For LIR message in response to Call Processing service Att value can adopt the value CALL ii for LIR message in response to Message Waiting Notify service Att value can adopt the value MWI iii for LIR message in response to Presence Service application Att value can equate PRESENCE and iv for LIR message that results from execution of Short Messaging service Att value can be SMS .

At least one advantage emerges from the various aspects of the subject disclosure A group of request messages of the same type e.g. LIR can be distinguished in accordance with type of service that originates each request message e.g. LIR in the group of request messages. As an example the subject disclosure enables distinction amongst a LIR message originated from Message Waiting Notify service from another LIR message originated in Call Processing service. As another example the subject disclosure also enables distinction amongst a MAR message due to Initial Registration service from a MAR message due to Re registration service. Thus as a result of such distinction the group of request messages can be prioritized based at least on criticality of the service that elicits a message request. Accordingly operation of a server in a centralized network repository e.g. HSS in a 3GPP network can be more efficient than in conventional systems particularly though not exclusively in heavy load or overload performance condition. Moreover based at least on such distinction scheduling disciplines and related scheduling policies can be enhanced through introduction of functionality that allows favoring critical message requests over non critical message requests. It should be appreciated that in conventional systems such distinction amongst a group of request messages of the same type is unavailable. Therefore in conventional systems scheduling policies typically prioritize according to request message type type of interface associated with transport of a request message type of network node or call processor yet scheduling policies in conventional systems do not differentiate amongst type of client application or service application that originates a request message.

Various aspects of the subject disclosure can be automated through artificial intelligence AI methods to infer e.g. reason and draw a conclusion based on a set of metrics arguments or known outcomes in controlled scenarios for example priority rankings for disparate AVPs that can be conveyed in a message request. Artificial intelligence techniques typically apply advanced mathematical algorithms e.g. decision trees neural networks regression analysis principal component analysis PCA for feature and pattern extraction cluster analysis genetic algorithm or reinforced learning to a data set e.g. the collected subscriber intelligence in the case of subscriber segmentation. In particular one of numerous methodologies can be employed for learning from data and then drawing inferences from the models so constructed. For example Hidden Markov Models HMMs and related prototypical dependency models can be employed. General probabilistic graphical models such as Dempster Shafer networks and Bayesian networks like those created by structure search using a Bayesian model score or approximation also can be utilized. In addition linear classifiers such as support vector machines SVMs non linear classifiers like methods referred to as neural network methodologies fuzzy logic methodologies also can be employed.

In view of the example system s described above example method s that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter can be better appreciated with reference to flowcharts in . For purposes of simplicity of explanation example methods disclosed herein are presented and described as a series of acts however it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of acts as some acts may occur in different orders and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. For example one or more example methods disclosed herein can alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover interaction diagram s may represent methods in accordance with the disclosed subject matter when disparate entities enact disparate portions of the methodologies. Furthermore not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a described example method in accordance with the subject specification. Further yet two or more of the disclosed methods can be implemented executed performed etc. in combination with each other to accomplish one or more features or advantages described herein.

Method s disclosed throughout the subject specification and annexed drawings are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture to facilitate transporting and transferring such method s to computers or chipsets with processing capability ies for execution and thus implementation by a processor or for storage in a memory. In an aspect one or more processors that enact method s described herein can be employed to execute computer executable code instructions retained in a memory or any computer readable or machine readable medium to implement method s described herein the code instructions when executed by the one or more processor implement or carry out the various acts in the method s described herein. The computer executable code instructions also referred to herein as code instructions provide a computer executable framework to enact or implement the method s described herein.

At act a data unit is acquired extracted received etc. in response to initiating the request message the data unit characterizes a type of service related to the service that triggered initiating the request message. In an aspect the data unit can be retained in memory storage e.g. a register a database a file . . . that is local to the client or one or more components therein that implement the subject example method. As described supra the data unit can be formatted in accordance with the access protocol protocol. In a scenario in which the access protocol e.g. AAA protocol is Diameter protocol the data unit can be an attribute value pair AVP for example the data unit can be an AVP that includes an attribute name such as Application Type or App Type and a related attribute value a described hereinbefore see e.g. . At act the data unit is incorporated in the request message. As an example for Diameter protocol incorporating the data unit includes embedding it in the AVP portion of a Diameter message the data unit can be a composite of various data that are introduced in the header of the Diameter message and as part of the payload data.

Example method illustrates a method for scheduling a message request the subject example method is suitable for complementing or supplementing overload protection algorithm s employed by a server that receives the message request and that supplies a response such as Diameter answer message. At act a request message is received wherein the request message includes an indication of service type that characterizes a service that elicited the request message. At act a performance condition of at least one server configured to respond to the request message is assessed. Responding to the request message can include generating and delivering an answer message e.g. a Diameter answer message . At act it is determined if a performance condition is an overload condition. Determination can be based at least one a comparison of a group of KPIs of the at least one server with a group of respective predetermined thresholds as described supra the group of KPIs comprising a number of active processes or threads e.g. processor load a number of current or nearly current request messages virtual memory usage physical memory used. In the affirmative case a priority is assigned to the request message based at least on a scheduling policy that ranks the service type at act . At act the request message is scheduled based at least on the priority and a first scheduling discipline. In a scenario in which the performance condition is non overload condition at act the request message is scheduled based on at least a second scheduling discipline under non overload condition.

In order to provide additional context for various aspects of the subject specification and the following discussion are intended to provide a brief general description of a suitable computing environment in which the various aspects of the specification can be implemented. While the specification has been described above in the general context of computer executable instructions that may run on one or more computers those skilled in the art will recognize that the specification also can be implemented in combination with other program modules and or as a combination of hardware and software.

Generally program modules include routines programs components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Moreover those skilled in the art will appreciate that the inventive methods can be practiced with other computer system configurations including single processor or multiprocessor computer systems minicomputers mainframe computers as well as personal computers hand held computing devices microprocessor based or programmable consumer electronics and the like each of which can be operatively coupled to one or more associated devices.

The illustrated aspects of the specification may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where certain tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules can be located in both local and remote memory storage devices.

A computer typically includes a variety of computer readable media. Computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by the computer and includes both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not limitation computer readable media can comprise computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computer.

Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of the any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

With reference again to the example environment for implementing various aspects of the specification includes a computer the computer including a processing unit a system memory and a system bus . The system bus couples system components including but not limited to the system memory to the processing unit . The processing unit can be any of various commercially available processors. Dual microprocessors and other multi processor architectures may also be employed as the processing unit .

The system bus can be any of several types of bus structure that may further interconnect to a memory bus with or without a memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of commercially available bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS is stored in a non volatile memory such as ROM EPROM EEPROM which BIOS contains the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computer such as during start up. The RAM can also include a high speed RAM such as static RAM for caching data.

The computer further includes an internal hard disk drive HDD e.g. EIDE SATA which internal hard disk drive may also be configured for external use in a suitable chassis not shown or an external HDD can be present in addition to internal HDD a magnetic floppy disk drive FDD e.g. to read from or write to a removable diskette and an optical disk drive e.g. reading a CD ROM disk or to read from or write to other high capacity optical media such as the DVD . The hard disk drive magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive can be connected to the system bus by a hard disk drive interface a magnetic disk drive interface and an optical drive interface respectively. The interface for external drive implementations includes at least one or both of Universal Serial Bus USB and IEEE 1394 interface technologies. Other external drive connection technologies are within contemplation of the subject specification.

The drives and their associated computer readable media provide nonvolatile storage of data data structures computer executable instructions and so forth. For the computer the drives and media accommodate the storage of any data in a suitable digital format. Although the description of computer readable media above refers to a HDD a removable magnetic diskette and a removable optical media such as a CD or DVD it should be appreciated by those skilled in the art that other types of media which are readable by a computer such as zip drives magnetic cassettes flash memory cards cartridges and the like may also be used in the example operating environment and further that any such media may contain computer executable instructions for performing the methods of the specification.

A number of program modules can be stored in the drives and RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data . All or portions of the operating system applications modules and or data can also be cached in the RAM . It is appreciated that the specification can be implemented with various commercially available operating systems or combinations of operating systems.

A user can enter commands and information into the computer through one or more wired wireless input devices e.g. a keyboard and a pointing device such as a mouse . Other input devices not shown may include a microphone an IR remote control a joystick a game pad a stylus pen touch screen or the like. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through an input device interface that is coupled to the system bus but can be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port an IEEE 1394 serial port a game port a USB port an IR interface etc.

A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video adapter . In addition to the monitor a computer typically includes other peripheral output devices not shown such as speakers printers etc.

The computer may operate in a networked environment using logical connections via wired and or wireless communications to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer s . The remote computer s can be a workstation a server computer a router a personal computer portable computer microprocessor based entertainment appliance a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described relative to the computer although for purposes of brevity only a memory storage device is illustrated. The logical connections depicted include wired wireless connectivity to a local area network LAN and or larger networks e.g. a wide area network WAN . Such LAN and WAN networking environments are commonplace in offices and companies and facilitate enterprise wide computer networks such as intranets all of which may connect to a global communications network e.g. the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computer is connected to the local network through a wired and or wireless communication network interface or adapter . The adapter may facilitate wired or wireless communication to the LAN which may also include a wireless access point disposed thereon for communicating with the wireless adapter .

When used in a WAN networking environment the computer can include a modem or is connected to a communications server on the WAN or has other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as by way of the Internet. The modem which can be internal or external and a wired or wireless device is connected to the system bus via the serial port interface . In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computer or portions thereof can be stored in the remote memory storage device . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are example and other means of establishing a communications link between the computers can be used.

The computer is operable to communicate with any wireless devices or entities operatively disposed in wireless communication e.g. a printer scanner desktop and or portable computer portable data assistant communications satellite any piece of equipment or location associated with a wirelessly detectable tag e.g. a kiosk news stand restroom and telephone. This includes at least Wi Fi and Bluetooth wireless technologies. Thus the communication can be a predefined structure as with a conventional network or simply an ad hoc communication between at least two devices.

Wi Fi or Wireless Fidelity allows connection to the Internet from a couch at home a bed in a hotel room or a conference room at work without wires. Wi Fi is a wireless technology similar to that used in a cell phone that enables such devices e.g. computers to send and receive data indoors and out anywhere within the range of a base station. Wi Fi networks use radio technologies called IEEE 802.11 a b g etc. to provide secure reliable fast wireless connectivity. A Wi Fi network can be used to connect computers to each other to the Internet and to wired networks which use IEEE 802.3 or Ethernet . Wi Fi networks operate in the unlicensed 2.4 and 5 GHz radio bands at an 8 Mbps 802.11a or 54 Mbps 802.11b data rate for example or with products that contain both bands dual band so the networks can provide real world performance similar to the basic 10BaseT wired Ethernet networks used in many offices.

The system includes a communication framework that can be employed to facilitate communications between the client s and the server s . The client s are operatively connected to one or more client data store s that can be employed to store information local to the client s . Similarly the server s are operatively connected to one or more server data store s that can be employed to store information local to the servers .

It is to be noted that aspects features or advantages of the subject innovation described in the subject specification can be exploited in substantially any wireless communication technology. For instance 4G technologies Wi Fi WiMAX Enhanced GPRS 3GPP LTE 3GPP2 UMB 3GPP UMTS HSPA HSDPA HSUPA GERAN UTRAN LTE Advanced. Additionally substantially all aspects of the subject innovation as disclosed in the subject specification can be exploited in legacy telecommunication technologies e.g. GSM. In addition mobile as well non mobile networks e.g. internet data service network such as IPTV can exploit aspect or features described herein.

As it employed in the subject specification the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification and annexed drawings terms such as store data store data storage database and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

Various aspects or features described herein can be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects disclosed in the subject specification can also be implemented through program modules stored in a memory and executed by a processor or other combination of hardware and software or hardware and firmware. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical discs e.g. compact disc CD digital versatile disc DVD blu ray disc BD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the subject innovation. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the subject innovation but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

