---

title: All-optical methods and systems
abstract: An all-optical modulation format converter for converting optical data signals modulated in an on-off-keying (OOK) format to a phase-shift-keying (PSK) format. The OOK-to-PSK converter can be coupled to a delay-line interferometer to provide an all-optical wavelength converter for differential PSK (DPSK). The OOK-to-PSK converter can also be used in all-optical implementations of various functions, including, for example, exclusive-OR (XOR/NXOR) and OR logic, shift registers, and pseudo-random binary sequence (PRBS) generators. Several variants of all-optical devices are described.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08457500&OS=08457500&RS=08457500
owner: Alcatel Lucent
number: 08457500
owner_city: Paris
owner_country: FR
publication_date: 20100823
---
This application is a continuation in part of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 497 959 filed Jul. 6 2009 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes into this application which is a continuation in part of U.S. Pat. No. 7 558 486 issued Jul. 7 2009.

The present invention relates to the field of high speed optical data communications and in particular to all optical methods and systems.

All optical signal processing is a key to enabling all optical networking All optical wavelength conversion AOWC for example can be used to perform wavelength routing and contention resolution in transparent optical data networks. As a promising alternative to optical electrical optical OEO conversion AOWC can reduce cost and power consumption in high bit rate core optical networks.

All optical format conversion is another functionality needed in all optical networks composed of multiple modulation formats. For example all optical on off keying OOK to phase shift keying PSK converters can seamlessly integrate OOK networks and PSK networks. All optical OOK to PSK converters also can be beneficially used in all optical pattern recognition circuits as PSK is preferred for passive pattern recognition using all optical correlators. Because of the constant intensity pattern of PSK formatted signals PSK is preferable where semiconductor optical amplifiers SOAs are used as optical amplifiers.

All optical logic operations such as XOR AND OR are an integral part in building all optical data networks where packet routing data buffering and wavelength conversion are expected to be processed in the optical plane. The XOR operation for example is particularly useful for label recognition and swapping pattern generation and parity checking The XOR logic element is a key building block for pseudo random binary sequence PRBS generators and optical half adders for example.

Integrated semiconductor optical device technology is maturing and much research has been done in optical signal processing using the nonlinear optics in SOAs. However the pattern dependence of SOAs owing to slow carrier recovery has been a key factor limiting the speed of all optical logic operation based on semiconductor optical devices. Existing all optical signal processing methods based on semiconductor optical devices however are better suited for OOK than PSK as the dominant optical nonlinearity such as cross gain modulation XGM or cross phase modulation XPM is mediated by intensity modulation and insensitive to the optical phase.

Efficient all optical signal processing methods that are applicable to multiple modulation formats and that have reduced pattern dependence are desirable. For example because of its superior performance in comparison to OOK differential phase shift keying DPSK is increasingly recognized as a promising modulation format for high bit rate e.g. 10 Gb s optical transmission. Given the importance of DPSK for high speed optical networks an efficient method of AOWC for DPSK is highly desired. In contrast to the several methods of AOWC demonstrated for OOK the few AOWC methods demonstrated for DPSK are based on four wave mixing FWM in optical fibers or in a semiconductor optical amplifier SOA . Intensity dependent optical nonlinearities such as cross gain modulation XGM and cross phase modulation XPM are usually considered inapplicable for AOWC of DPSK because of their phase insensitivity. FWM is highly polarization sensitive however and its conversion efficiency is typically less than the conversion efficiencies that have been achieved with XGM or XPM in SOAs. In addition FWM in SOA also suffers from high OSNR degradation owing to the relatively high level of amplified spontaneous emission.

In an exemplary embodiment the present invention provides a method and system for the all optical conversion of on off keying OOK formatted signals to phase shift keying PSK formatted signals. An exemplary embodiment of an OOK to PSK converter uses cross gain modulation XGM and cross phase modulation XPM in a differentially driven semiconductor optical amplifier SOA Mach Zehnder Interferometer MZI .

In a further embodiment of the present invention the exemplary OOK to PSK converter is used in an all optical wavelength conversion AOWC system for differential phase shift keying DPSK . An exemplary embodiment of a wavelength converter in accordance with the present invention comprises a silica planar lightwave circuit PLC delay line interferometer DI front end that demodulates the input DPSK signal into an OOK binary data stream and its complement which differentially drive the OOK to PSK converter. All of the optical devices can be fabricated on an integrated platform.

In further embodiments of the present invention an OOK to PSK converter is used to implement a variety of all optical logic functions including for example all optical OR and exclusive OR XOR functions. Several variants of all optical devices are disclosed.

The present invention also enjoys reduced pattern dependence making it better suited than known approaches for use with semiconductor optical devices for applications requiring high bit rate operation.

An exemplary embodiment of an all optical on off keying OOK to phase shift keying PSK converter is schematically illustrated in . The converter comprises a differential input stage which is driven by an OOK format signal A and its complement . A first output of the differential input stage is coupled to a first semiconductor optical amplifier SOA and a second output of the input stage is coupled to a second SOA . The SOAs and are driven with the same continuous wave CW laser. The output of the second SOA is coupled to a phase shifter which provides a nominal phase shift of radians. The output of the phase shifter and the output of the first SOA are combined by a combiner to provide the output of the converter .

In the exemplary embodiment the SOA MZI is implemented as a hybrid device fabricated by butt coupling a bar of InP SOA arrays with input and output silica PLC waveguides. The differential input stage can be implemented conventionally using fiber delay lines. Alternatively a monolithically integrated device can be implemented in which the SOA MZI and the differential input stage are fabricated on an InP device. The SOAs phase shifter and combiner can also be implemented using conventional components. These components can also be made integrated elements as well.

Note that although a continuous wave CW signal is shown as being provided to the SOAs other periodic signals can be used as well such as a train of optical pulses.

The operation of the OOK to PSK converter will now be described with reference to . When A 1 there will be a pulse at the A input and no pulse at the complementary input . The pulse at A is split and differentially delayed by the differential input stage so that the pulse that is applied to the input of the second SOA is delayed relative to the pulse that is applied to the first SOA . The differential delay is substantially the same as the nominal width of an OOK pulse. For 40 Gb s return to zero RZ OOK for instance an exemplary value for the differential delay is approximately 8 ps. The resultant amplitude of the electric field at the output of the first SOA is shown in as whereas the resultant amplitude of the electric field at the output of the phase shifter is shown in as . The signal has a phase whereas the signal has a phase . The phase is a non linear phase shift due to cross phase modulation XPM in SOAs. Due to the radian phase difference and the time difference between the signals and they are destructively combined by the combiner to yield the output signal i.e. the amplitude of the electrical field at the output shown in . The resultant output signal has a pulse duration of approximately and a phase .

When A 0 there will be a pulse at the complementary input of the converter and no pulse at the input A. The pulse at is split and differentially delayed by the differential input stage so that the pulse that is applied to the input of the first SOA is delayed relative to the pulse that is applied to the second SOA . The resultant amplitude of the electric field at the output of the first SOA is shown in as whereas the resultant amplitude of the electric field at the output of the phase shifter is shown in as . The signal has a phase whereas the signal has a phase . Due to the radian phase difference and the time difference between the signals and they are destructively combined by the combiner to yield the output signal shown in . In this case the resultant output signal has a pulse duration of approximately and a phase .

As such when A 1 at the OOK input of the converter the output of the converter has a phase whereas when A 0 at the OOK input the output has a phase . The OOK formatted input is thus converted to a PSK formatted output.

As is well known the input signals A will propagate through the SOAs and appear at the outputs of the SOAs. As such the OOK input signals at the input of the converter will appear to some extent at the output of the converter. One approach for addressing this feeding forward of the input signals is to use a CW laser for the SOAs of a different wavelength 2 than that of the input OOK signal 1 . An optical band pass filter OBPF can be placed at the output to pass the PSK output modulated at the second wavelength 2 while blocking the OOK input signals at the first wavelength 1. In such an implementation in addition to converting OOK to PSK the converter also acts as a wavelength converter i.e. from 1 to 2 . If wavelength conversion is not desired other known techniques for eliminating the feeding forward of the input signals can be employed such as using a CW laser of a different polarization reversing the CW inputs and signal outputs of the SOAs or using two cascaded wavelength converters with the second wavelength converter recovering the original signal wavelength.

In a further exemplary embodiment in accordance with the present invention the phase shifter can be eliminated and the phase shift introduced by applying different bias currents and or temperatures to the SOAs . Alternatively as can be appreciated a phase shifter can be coupled in line with the outputs of either or both SOA so long as the desired phase difference between the signals into the inputs of combiner is provided.

In yet a further exemplary embodiment the SOAs can be replaced by other nonlinear optical elements NOEs including for example nonlinear optical glass or absorptive devices such as electro absorption modulators.

An advantageous feature of the OOK to PSK converter of the present invention is its insensitivity to pattern dependence typically experienced by SOAs. As described above both of the SOAs and receive an OOK pulse during each bit period with the only variation between bit periods being the relative timing of the pulses. As such pattern dependence is less of a concern in the OOK to PSK converter of the present invention thereby obviating the need to use faster SOAs that would be less prone to pattern dependence.

The OOK to PSK converter of the present invention can be used in a variety of applications. In a further aspect of the present invention an all optical wavelength converter AOWC is provided based on the OOK to PSK converter of the present invention.

When a DPSK formatted signal is applied to the input of the DI it is converted to complementary OOK formatted signals at the output of the DI. The DI thus acts as a DPSK to OOK converter. The complementary OOK outputs of the DI then drive the OOK to PSK converter which operates as described above to convert the OOK signals to PSK at its output. Wavelength conversion is carried out with the converter by using a continuous wave CW in the OOK to PSK converter of a wavelength 2 that is different from the wavelength 1 of the input DPSK signal. A conversion is thus carried out from a DPSK modulated carrier of wavelength 1 to a PSK modulated carrier of wavelength 2. Furthermore as described above the OOK to PSK converter may include an OBPF at its output which passes the PSK signal modulated at the wavelength 2 while blocking the OOK signals which are modulated at the wavelength 1. The two wavelengths are preferably selected to be within the gain bandwidth of the SOAs and the OBPF should be selected so that the two wavelengths can be sufficiently separated. For example 100 GHz separation would be sufficient to distinguish two 40 Gb s signals of 8 ps RZ pulses. Precise separation will depend on how much linear cross talk can be tolerated in the transmission. The OBPF can be implemented in known ways.

As mentioned the encoding of the data is altered by the wavelength converter from DPSK to PSK. The data sequence Pn of the input DPSK signal and the data sequence Pn of the wavelength converted output PSK signal are related as follows where XOR. 1 

Equivalently if D is the data sequence that is ultimately derived from P the following relationship applies 2 

Equation 2 thus shows how a DPSK formatted data stream should be pre coded so that when it is processed by the converter it will yield the desired data sequence at the receiver.

More generally if N is the number of wavelength conversions expected between the transmitter and the receiver the initial data sequence Pat the transmitter and the data Dn that is to be sent to the receiver are related as follows 3 

The change in data encoding can be addressed by either pre coding as described or by post detection data processing.

In a further aspect of the present invention the OOK to PSK converter of the present invention can be used to implement all optical logic such as an all optical exclusive OR XOR function. shows an exemplary embodiment of an all optical XOR gate comprising first and second optical signal processing blocks and each implemented with an OOK to PSK converter such as described above with reference to . The optical signal processing blocks are driven by a common CW signal so that their outputs are coherent with the same wavelength i.e. the wavelength of the CW signal . It should be noted that blocks and can be driven by different periodic signals with different wavelengths so long as the signals are coherent.

A radian phase shifter is coupled to the output of one of the optical signal processing blocks in this case . The outputs of block and of phase shifter are combined by a combiner . The combiner has a destructive output port and a constructive output port . The provision of complementary output ports provides for the ready cascadability of multiple logic blocks implemented as shown. Complementary inputs and outputs can also be obtained using inverters.

When both data inputs A and B have the same value the PSK outputs of blocks and will have the same phase. When combined by the combiner the outputs of block and radian phase shifter will therefore destructively interfere leading to no output pulse at the constructive port and an optical pulse at the destructive port . Conversely when the data inputs A and B have different values the phases of the PSK outputs of blocks and will have a radian difference. When combined by the combiner the outputs of block and radian phase shifter will therefore constructively interfere leading to an output pulse at the constructive port and no optical pulse at the destructive port . As a result A B is output via port and its complement NXOR is output via port .

In order to prevent the feed forward of the input OOK signals A and B the OOK to PSK converters of blocks can be driven by a CW laser having a wavelength that differs from that with which the input signals are modulated. An OBPF for blocking the input signals while passing the output signals can be placed at the output of each converter or after the combiner . In the alternative the other techniques mentioned above can also be employed.

It is well known in the art that the XOR function is a key logic element for many functionalities including pseudo random binary sequence PRBS generation parity checking and half addition among others.

Optical PRBS can be generated using a linear optical shift register and feeding back the XOR result of the output at the end of the shift register and at least one tap point. An all optical implementation of PRBS generation is described in A. J. Poustie et al. All optical pseudorandom number generator Optics Communication 159 1999 pp. 208 214 where OOK XOR logic is implemented using SOA based switching gates. However no optical PRBS generator for other than OOK has been proposed before. In an exemplary embodiment the present invention provides a multiple format e.g. OOK and PSK PRBS generator that enjoys reduced pattern dependence and hence the potential for a higher speed of operation.

The length of the shift register loop shown in as a dashed path is equivalent to N bits and the temporal delay of the DI is m bits. For example N 15 and m 1 would generate a PRBS of length 2 1.

The XOR operation between the output at the end of the feedback loop and the tap point of the tap delay is accomplished at the directional coupler at the output of the DI . Note that this XOR is a special case of the general XOR operation described above in connection with . In XOR between two independent data signals A and B is accomplished by interfering two converted PSK signals eand e. In the PRBS generator the XOR is between two elements Aand Aof the same data sequence A. Hence only one OOK to PSK converter and a delay line interferometer suffice to accomplish the operation.

The PRBS generator may self start from noise build up within the circuit and generate non maximal length other than 2 1 or maximal length 2 1 PRBS. Alternatively the generator may be forced to produce maximal length PRBS by applying a properly timed trigger pulse. A possible point for applying such a trigger pulse is the non inverted input of the OOK to PSK converter as shown in .

The output of the DI is coupled to an OOK wavelength converter block which is in turn coupled to the input of the OOK to PSK converter . The wavelength converter block comprises a first all optical OOK wavelength converter WC coupled to the non inverted output A of the DI and a second all optical WC coupled to the complementary output of the DI . The outputs of the WCs and are in turn coupled to optical band pass filters OBPF and respectively.

The WCs and are driven by a CW laser of a first wavelength whereas the OOK to PSK converter is driven by a CW laser of a second wavelength . A PSK formatted signal generated by the OOK to PSK converter and fed back via the feedback loop to the DI will have a wavelength of . The complementary OOK outputs A of the DI will also have a wavelength of . The wavelength converters generate OOK formatted signals A modulated at the wavelength . Because the original signals A modulated at the wavelength can feed forward through the WCs the OBPFs and are included to pass the modulated OOK signals A while blocking the modulated OOK signals A . Likewise because the OOK signals A modulated at the wavelength can feed forward through the SOAs of the OOK to PSK converter the OBPF is provided to pass the modulated PSK signal while blocking the modulated OOK signals A .

Note that an advantageous feature of the PRBS generator of the present invention is the ability to provide an output in either an OOK or a DPSK PSK format. Points in the generator from which OOK and PSK signals can be output are shown in . As such the PRBS generator of the present invention can be referred to as a dual format all optical PRBS generator.

The principles of the present invention can also be applied to implement an all optical OR operation. As illustrated in vector summation of the electric fields E of two OOK signals which are coherent and have the same wavelength with a relative phase offset of 120 2 3 radians achieves a binary OR operation of the intensity I or power of the two signals.

Alternatively the filters can be placed after the combiner . Depending on the difference between the wavelengths of the input signals the filters can be replaced by one filter after the combiner capable of blocking both wavelengths or where both input signals have the same wavelength the one wavelength. Further filtering can be provided after the combiner by at least one of the aforementioned filters or an additional filter to clean up the output waveform if need be.

Note that changing the phase shift introduced by phase shifter to 180 radians would yield an XOR function at the output of combiner . The logic function performed by device can thus be made configurable i.e. OR XOR by implementing phase shifter as a variable phase shifter.

An optical filter may be coupled to the output of the combiner tuned to block signals about the wavelengths of the input signals while passing signals about the wavelength of the CW signal and or to clean up the output waveform if need be. The filer can be implemented using an optical bandpass filter for example. Note that like the embodiment of filtering to block the input signals may be provided before the combiner .

Note that the embodiment of is preferably used for applications in which the data rate of the signals combined is commensurate with the recovery speed of the NOEs the faster the recovery speed of the NOEs the higher the data rate. If that is not the case however the embodiment of is better suited. Also as with the other devices described although a continuous wave CW signal is shown in as being provided to the NOEs other periodic signals can be used as well such as a train of optical pulses.

The maximum speed at which all optical OR operation can be performed is a function of the recovery speeds of the gain and phase of the nonlinear optical elements used. As discussed the nonlinear optical elements could be nonlinear optical glass whose response time is effectively instantaneous or semiconductor optical amplifiers SOAs whose response time is on the order of 10 100 ps. For nonlinear optical elements having practically instantaneous response times an arrangement similar to that shown in should suffice for performing optical OR operations satisfactorily at speeds only limited by the response speed.

The impact of the non instantaneous response times of the nonlinear optical elements manifests itself as pattern dependent distortion of the logic circuit output signal. The distortion is more severe if the input data consists of long streams of logic 1 s followed by long streams of logic 0 s or vice versa. The pattern dependent penalties can be mitigated either by applying optical equalizer filters to the output of the logic circuit or by rearranging the input to the logic circuit. One example of such strategies is shown in in which a replica of an input data signal is time delayed and modulates a SOA which is substantially identical to the SOA modulated by the non delayed input data. The splitting ratio and the temporal delays between the two replicas can be adjusted depending on the response speed of the SOAs and the data rate. This configuration is functionally equivalent to a one tap equalizer filter or a delay line interferometer whose power splitting ratio and delay are identical to those of the differential input stage. The mitigation scheme shown in is effective when the data rate is roughly similar to the inverse of the SOA response time.

When the data rate is substantially higher than the inverse of the response time of the nonlinear elements other exemplary configurations such as those shown in can be employed to mitigate any pattern dependent penalties. Like the embodiment of the OR gate configurations shown in entail vector addition of two coherent optical fields having a relative optical phase difference of 120 27 3 radians . Unlike the embodiment of the embodiments of include input ports for accepting complementary input data signals and . With such an arrangement each SOA receives a nearly constant stream of pulses except for the slight temporal shifts depending on whether the pulse in the bit slot is the A or B data signal or its complement or .

As shown in device is implemented similarly to device of as described above except that the complement of each data signal is also provided as an input. In device the complement of each data signal is combined with the CW signal and the combined signal is coupled into the input ports of the SOAs in SOA MZI structures of optical signal processing blocks . Preferably the intensity of each data signal and its complement are comparable at the SOA inputs. This arrangement serves to reduce the fluctuations of the optical powers coupled into the SOAs. As a result patterning effects are minimized.

As with device of device shown in employs complementary input data to reduce pattern dependent signal distortion. Optical signal processing blocks and of device include OOK to PSK converters respectively which receive the complementary OOK input data signals and generate coherent PSK modulated output signals. As in devices and the coherent signals are then filtered by filters a relative optical phase difference of 120 27 3 radians is introduced by phase shifter and the signals are combined by combiner . Additionally as described below the output of combiner is further combined at combiner with a 60 3 radians phase shifted clock signal CLK to yield the final output.

As can be appreciated by a person of ordinary skill in the art there may be several equivalent topologies for implementing the various devices described above. For example the order and orientation in which the various optical elements e.g. SOAs optical couplers optical band pass filters etc. are laid out can be altered to accomplish the substantially same functions. Any such equivalents are contemplated by and within the scope of the present invention.

It is understood that the above described embodiments are illustrative of only a few of the possible specific embodiments which can represent applications of the invention. Numerous and varied other arrangements can be made by those skilled in the art without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention.

