---

title: Materials and methods for the preparation of nanocomposites
abstract: Disclosed herein is an isolable colloidal particle comprising a nanoparticle and an inorganic capping agent bound to the surface of the nanoparticle, a solution of the same, a method for making the same from a biphasic solvent mixture, and the formation of structures and solids from the isolable colloidal particle. The process can yield photovoltaic cells, piezoelectric crystals, thermoelectric layers, optoelectronic layers, light emitting diodes, ferroelectric layers, thin film transistors, floating gate memory devices, imaging devices, phase change layers, and sensor devices.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09346998&OS=09346998&RS=09346998
owner: THE UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO
number: 09346998
owner_city: Chicago
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100423
---
This application claims priority to U.S. Provisional Applications 61 214 434 filed Apr. 23 2009 and 61 264 790 filed Nov. 28 2009 the content of which are incorporated herein in their entirety.

This invention was made with governmental support under grants from the U.S. National Science Foundation DMR 0847535 and the U.S. Department of Energy DE AC02 06CH11357 . The U.S. government has certain rights in the invention.

The disclosure generally relates to materials and methods for the preparation of nanocomposites. More specifically the disclosure relates to inorganic capped colloidal materials and the methods of depositing these inorganic capped colloidal materials on a substrate to form nanocomposites. Still more specifically the disclosure relates to the selective deposition and formation of nanocomposites on a substrate.

Nanoscale materials materials with at least one dimension between about 1 and 1000 nm have increasingly garnered attention due to their potential electronic photophysical chemical and medicinal effects. The large scale industrial application of nanoscale materials has generally focused on the formation of nanometer thick films and or nanometer wide wires. Many of these industrially applied nanoscale materials display extraordinary electronic and photophysical properties but more often the materials lack the features that originally drew scientific interest toward nanocrystals nanorods and nanowires.

Attempts to incorporate the physical properties of nanocrystals nanorods and nanowires into films or bulk solids have led to the self assembly of ordered nanoarrays. These self assembled ordered nanoarrays have been produced from stable colloidal solutions of nanomaterials. For example close packed nanocrystal films have been made by spin coating or drop casting of colloidal solutions. Often these films show short range ordering but forces such as entropy electrostatics and van der Waals interactions can cause these materials to self assemble into superlattices. These techniques have afforded binary superlattices with tunable electronic structures based on the colloidal materials employed in the synthesis.

Though some single component and binary superlattices exhibit desirable physical and electronic properties these materials are not robust enough for large scale advanced material applications and their synthesis is not general enough to provide easy production of idealized materials.

A larger scale approach to the synthesis of solid state materials encompassing nanocrystals is the impregnation and forced crystallization of nanocrystals from melts of inorganic materials. This rapid quenching approach can provide nanocrystalline material in bulk inorganic phases but lacks any methodology for the formation of ordered nanoarrays in the bulk material.

While the synthesis of solid state materials with ordered arrays of nanoscale materials has progressed to the point where nanocrystals can be deposited in ordered arrays on a surface the use of these ordered arrays are hampered by the insulating ligands generally used in the manufacture of the nanocrystal. The practical use of these nanocrystals has been discovered through the blending of these organic soluble nanocrystals with polymers. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 7 457 508. For example nanocomposites of nanocrystals and conjugated polymers can yield tunable semiconducting photonic structures and with unique optical electrical magnetic electrochromic and chemical properties. See for example U.S. Pat. No. 7 200 318.

The majority of applications wherein these advanced materials would be applicable employ inorganic solids as the functional material. One example of an applicable inorganic solid that incorporates nanoscale materials is the fabrication of inorganic nanocomposites described in U.S. Pat. No. 7 517 718. This methodology involves the codeposition of a nanocrystalline material with an inorganic matrix precursor from a homogeneous hydrazine solution a technique similar to the deposition of nanocrystalline materials in polymers as described in J. W. Lee et al. 2000 12 1102. This methodology fails to provide the selectivity of structure for the synthesis of tunable semiconducting materials does not prevent the carbon contamination of the synthesized inorganic nanocomposite and requires a highly toxic hypergolic solvent. Hence the industrial applicability of the methodology is limited by material requirements and the overwhelming health and safety concerns.

Examples of materials and devices applicable to the current invention are described in the following U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 571 028 6 611 640 6 710 911 7 095 959 6 697 548 7 110 640 7 200 302 6 872 450 7 192 780 7 482 059 7 399 429 7 341 734 and 7 524 746 the following U.S. patent application Ser. Nos. 11 403 090 11 484 785 11 679 746 11 680 047 11 680 344 11 683 880 11 687 306 11 747 701 11 752 748 11 863 129 11 866 974 11 896 549 11 952 783 12 048 061 12 052 380 and 12 350 615 and the following International Patent Applications PCT 2005 016481 PCT 2005 024131 PCT 2005 024211 PCT 2006 003652 PCT 2006 027124 PCT 2006 027125 PCT 2007 015851 PCT 2007 025235 PCT 2007 063788 PCT 2007 063788 PCT 2007 065951 PCT 2007 065951 PCT 2007 069572 PCT 2007 069572 PCT 2007 071218 PCT 2007 071218 PCT 2007 071218 PCT 2007 072748 PCT 2007 072761 PCT 2007 079688 PCT 2007 079688 PCT 2007 080436 PCT 2007 082066 PCT 2007 085824 PCT 2007 086480 PCT 2007 086819 PCT 2007 086819 PCT 2008 052620 PCT 2008 052620 PCT 2008 053651 PCT 2008 056845 PCT 2008 057681 PCT 2007 003525 PCT 2007 003411 PCT 2007 005589 PCT 2007 007424 PCT 2007 008705 PCT 2007 008721 PCT 2007 008873 PCT 2007 009255 PCT 2007 013152 PCT 2007 013761 PCT 2007 019797 PCT 2007 024305 PCT 2007 024306 PCT 2007 024310 PCT 2007 024312 PCT 2007 024750 PCT 2007 019796 PCT 2007 014705 PCT 2007 014711 PCT 2007 014706 PCT 2007 024320 PCT 2008 007902 PCT 2008 008036 PCT 2008 008822 PCT 2008 007901 PCT 2008 008924 PCT 2008 010651 PCT 2008 013504 PCT 2009 002123 PCT 2009 002796 PCT 2009 001372 PCT 2009 002789 PCT 2009 004345 and PCT 2009 004354 each of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety.

Disclosed herein is a composition and a method for making that composition having a nanoparticle capped with an inorganic capping agent. The method generally includes at least two immiscible solvents and the exchange of an organic capping agent on a nanoparticle with the herein described inorganic capping agent.

Another aspect of the disclosure is a composition made of the nanoparticle and the inorganic capping agent. The composition is isolable can be purified and importantly may display approximately the same opto electronic characteristics as the nanoparticle with an organic capping agent.

Yet another aspect of the disclosure is the deposition of the composition on a substrate. Herein the composition can be deposited as thin or bulk films by a variety of techniques with short or long range ordering of the nanoparticles. The deposited composition importantly displays approximately the same opto electronic characteristics as the composition in solution.

Still another aspect of the disclosure is the thermal decomposition of the deposited composition to form inorganic matrices with imbedded nanoparticles. The annealed composition has an inorganic matrix that corresponds to the thermal decomposition product of the inorganic capping agent. Additionally as the annealed composition can be produced from the deposited composition with ordered nanoparticles arrays the annealed composition can have ordered arrays of nanoparticles in a solid state matrix. The annealed composition can also importantly display approximately the same optical characteristics as the deposited composition.

Additionally the deposited composition can be thermally treated such that the composition partially or wholly anneals. The formed alloy can have discrete regions with elemental compositions that approximate the nanoparticle and the solid state matrix as made through the above referenced thermal decomposition or the alloy can be annealed to a single phase.

The herein disclosed materials and methods provide a route to new and useful solid state materials that can exhibit for example thermoelectric piezoelectric ferroelectric phase change and electroluminescent characteristics. These solid state materials can be used in devices like photovoltaic cells piezoelectric crystals thermoelectric layers optoelectronic layers light emitting diodes ferroelectric layers thin film transistors floating gate memory devices phase change layers detectors of light X ray and gamma radiation imaging devices and sensor devices. Uses of and methods of assembling such devices are generally described in U.S. Ser. No. 12 142 454 U.S. Pat. No. 7 348 224 U.S. Ser. No. 12 328 788 U.S. Ser. No. 11 865 325 U.S. Ser. No. 11 864 877 PCT US2007 018015 U.S. Ser. No. 12 285 158 U.S. Ser. No. 12 108 500 U.S. Ser. No. 11 942 441 PCT US2008 002246 U.S. Ser. No. 11 584 304 U.S. Ser. No. 12 241 333 U.S. Ser. No. 12 179 807 U.S. Ser. No. 12 155 015 PCT US2006 022250 U.S. Pat. No. 7 517 702 U.S. Ser. No. 12 050 676 U.S. Ser. No. 12 130 075 U.S. Ser. No. 11 789 344 PCT KR2007 002885 U.S. Ser. No. 11 704 623 U.S. Ser. No. 11 856 086 U.S. Ser. No. 11 604 746 PCT US2008 000271 U.S. Pat. No. 7 485 526 U.S. Ser. No. 12 079 088 U.S. Ser. No. 12 032 252 PCT US2008 005430 U.S. Ser. No. 12 050 284 and U.S. Ser. No. 11 803 261 all of which are incorporated herein by reference. Solid state materials in accordance with the descriptions herein may be used in assembling any of these and similar devices.

Additional features of the invention may become apparent to those skilled in the art from a review of the following detailed description taken in conjunction with the drawings the examples and the appended claims.

While the disclosed compositions and methods are susceptible of embodiments in various forms there are illustrated in the drawings and will hereafter be described specific embodiments of the invention with the understanding that the disclosure is intended to be illustrative and is not intended to limit the invention to the specific embodiments described and illustrated herein.

The compositions and methods described herein generally relate to new colloidal particles inorganic capped nanomaterials and materials composites made from these nanometer scale particles. The colloidal particles can be facilely produced from single or multi component mixtures of nanoparticles and the materials can be produced thereform. These new colloidal particles materials and the methods described herein may reduce the time expense and uncertainty in the manufacture of advanced materials.

Colloidal particles from which the herein described materials can be produced are discrete particles and are generally suspendable in at least one solvent. The colloidal particles are isolable that is the colloidal particles can be isolated from reagents used in the manufacture of the colloidal particles. One characteristic of many isolable colloidal particles is that the colloidal particles can be deposited from a solution and then resuspended or redissolved in the same or a different solvent. Often colloidal particles have sizes ranging from the nanometer scale to the micron scale and can exist as mixtures with broad size ranges. Nanoparticles are those particles where at least the cross sections of the particle in two dimensions are between about 1 and about 1000 nanometers nm . Nanoparticles can be produced in a large variety of morphologies and sizes all of which are applicable herein. Nonlimiting examples of the morphologies of nanoparticles include nanocrystals nanorods nanoplates nanowires dumbbell like nanoparticles and dendritic nanomaterials. See . Within each morphology there is an additional large variety of shapes available for example nanocrystals can be produced in spheres cubes tetrahedra octahedra icosahedra prisms cylinders wires branched and hyperbranched morphologies and the like. The morphology and the size of the nanoparticles do not inhibit the general method for making colloidal materials described herein specifically the selection of morphology and size of the nanoparticle allows for the tuning and control of the properties of the colloidal material as will become clear.

Non limiting examples of nanoparticles applicable herein include AlN AlP AlAs Ag Au Bi BiS BiSe BiTe CdS CdSe CdTe Co CoPt CoPt Cu CuS CuSe CuInSe CuInGa S Se CuZnSn S Se Fe FeO FeO FeO FePt GaN GaP GaAs GaSb GaSe Ge HgS HgSe HgTe InN InP InSb InAs Ni PbS PbSe PbTe Pd Pt Ru Rh Si Sn ZnS ZnSe ZnTe and mixtures thereof. Examples of applicable nanoparticles include core shell nanoparticles like Au PbS Au PbSe Au PbTe Ag PbS Ag PbSe Ag PbTe Pt PbS Pt PbSe Pt PbTe Au CdS Au CdSe Au CdTe Ag CdS Ag CdSe Ag CdTe Pt CdS Pt CdSe Pt CdTe Au FeO Au FeO Au FeO4 Pt FeO Pt FeO Pt FeO FePt PbS FePt PbSe FePt PbTe FePt CdS FePt CdSe FePt CdTe CdSe CdS CdSe ZnS InP CdSe InP ZnS InP ZnSe InAs CdSe and InAs ZnSe nanorods like CdSe core shell nanorods like CdSe CdS nano tetrapods like CdTe and core shell nano tetrapods like CdSe CdS.

Often nanoparticles are synthesized in such a manner that the resulting nanoparticle is capped or coated in a stabilizing organic material an organic capping agent. One typical example of an organic capping agent is trioctylphosphine oxide TOPO used in the manufacture of CdSe. The TOPO capping agent prevents the agglomeration of the nanoparticle during and after the synthesis of the particle additionally the long organic chains radiating from the capping agent on the surface of the nanoparticle assist in the suspension and or solubility of the nanoparticle in a solvent. A second type of organic capping agent is a organic thiol often used in the manufacture of silver or gold nanoparticles. These organic thiols range from simple long chain alkane thiols like dodecane thiol to complex monothiols. The long organic chain of the organic thiol capping agent as with the TOPO capping agent assists in the suspension and or solubility of the capped nanoparticle. Other known capping agents include long chain aliphatic amines long chain aliphatic phosphines long chain aliphatic carboxylic acids long chain aliphatic phosphonic acids and mixtures thereof.

The present disclosure provides techniques for replacement of the organic capping agents with inorganic capping agents. As used herein inorganic capping agents are those soluble reagents free of organic functionality that displace organic capping agents from nanoparticles and preferably wherein the inorganic capped nanoparticle is dispersible that is suspendable and or soluble. Inorganic capping agents comprises metals selected from transition metals lanthanides actinides main group metals metalloids and mixtures thereof. Inorganic capping agents further comprise soluble metal chalcogenides and or metal carbonyl chalcogenides. One aspect of the technique of replacing the organic capping agents with inorganic capping agents is the complete or substantially complete displacement of the organic capping agents from the nanoparticle and replacement with the inorganic capping agent. See .

Inorganic capping agents can be neutral or ionic can be discrete species linear or branched chains or two dimensional sheets. Ionic inorganic capping agents are commonly referred to as salts a pairing of a cation and an anion and the portion of the salt specifically referred to as an inorganic capping agent is the ion that displaces the organic capping agent and caps the nanoparticle. Often an inorganic ion is paired with an ion that has organic functionality the paired ion that does not displace organic capping agents is referred to herein as a counter ion. The counter ion can affect the solubility and reactivity of the inorganic capping agent as well as the inorganic capped nanomaterial but the great variability of counter ions allows for their facile replacement and a balance of desired properties.

The inorganic capping agents described herein are often designated by formulations derived from a variety of analytical techniques including elemental analysis mass spectroscopy and NMR. These designations may or may not accurately describe the molecular compositions of these inorganic capping agents in a solution and further do not prescribe to them a specific structure. It is believed that at least some of the herein described inorganic capping agents exhibit variable solution structure equilibria possibly dependent on temperature concentration purity and other factors.

In one embodiment the inorganic capping agents are Zintl ions. As used herein Zintl ions refers to homopolyatomic anions and heteropolyatomic anions that have intermetallic bonds between the same or different metals of the main group transition metals lanthanides and or actinides. Non limiting examples of Zintl ions include As As As As Ae AsS AsSe AsTe AsTe AuTe AuTe Bi Bi Bi GaTe Ge Ge GeS HgSe HgSe InSe InTe NiSb Pb Pb Pb PbSb Sb Sb Sb SbSe SbSe SbTe SbSe SbTe SbTe SbTe SbTe Se Se Se Se Se Sn Sn Sn SnS SnSe SnTe SnSMn SnSS SnSe SnTe SnBi SnSb Te Te Te TlTe TlSn TlSn TlSn TlTe mixed metal SnSMn and the like. The positively charged counter ions can be alkali metal ions ammonium hydrazinium tetraalkylammmonium and the like.

Another embodiment of applicable inorganic capping agents include for example molecular compounds derived from CuInSe CuInGaSe GaSe InSe InTe SbS SbSe SbTe and ZnTe the inorganic complexes disclosed in Roof L. C. Kolis J. W. 1993 93 1037 80 and incorporated herein by reference and the inorganic complexes disclosed in Corbett J. D. 1985 85 383 97 and incorporated herein by reference. For many of these molecular compounds the exact stoichiometry in a solution has not yet been adequately established this does not preclude the use herein.

Further embodiments include non stoichiometric Zintl ions and inorganic capping agents derived from molecular compounds. These include for example inorganic capping agents derived from molecular compounds wherein excess chalcogenide is added. One example is an inorganic capping agent derived from SbTewith excess tellurium SbTe Te . Analysis of SbTe Te indicates a solution composition that contains SbTe SbTe and SbTe by ESI MS and a stoichiometry of SbTe by elemental analysis.

These inorganic capping agents further include transition metal chalcogenides. Examples of transition metal chalcogenides include the tetrasulfides and tetraselenides of vanadium niobium tantalum molybdenum tungsten and rhenium and the tetratellurides of niobium tantalum and tungsten. These transition metal chalcogenides further include the monometallic and polymetallic polysulfides polyselenides and mixtures thereof e.g. MoS Se MoS and the like.

Inorganic capped nanoparticles differ from core shell nanoparticles. Core shell nanoparticles are those particles where one nanocrystal has an outer crystalline layer with a different chemical formula. Core shell nanoparticle compositions are commonly designated through the simple notation of core composition shell composition for example CdSe CdS has a CdSe core and a CdS shell. The crystalline layer the shell generally forms over the entire nanocrystal but as used herein core shell nanoparticles refers to those nanoparticles where at least one surface of the nanocrystal is coated with a crystalline layer. While the inorganic capping agents may form ordered arrays on the surface of a nanocrystal these arrays differ from a core shell crystalline layer in part because the thickness of the array is dependent on the size of the inorganic capping agent not the concentration of reagent provided or the growth time of the layer.

The disclosed colloidal particles inorganic capped nanoparticles are soluble and or suspendable in a solvent. Typically the purification of chemicals requires some isolation procedure and for inorganic materials this procedure is often the precipitation of the inorganic product. The precipitation of inorganic products permits one of ordinary skill to wash the inorganic product of impurities and or unreacted materials. The isolation of the precipitated inorganic products then allows for the selective application of those materials.

Moreover the disclosed colloidal particles are isolable and dispersible soluble or suspendable in a variety of solvents. Manufacturing techniques environmental and or work place rules often require the application of certain solvents. Colloidal materials dispersible in a variety of solvents are applicable for a broader use than those colloidal materials that require specific toxic environmentally hazardous or costly solvents.

Solvents applicable herein include but are not limited to 1 3 butanediol acetonitrile ammonia benzonitrile butanol dimethylacetamide dimethylamine dimethylethylenediamine dimethylformamide dimethylsulfoxide dioxane ethanol ethanolamine ethylenediamine ethyleneglycol formamide glycerol methanol methoxyethanol methylamine methylformamide methylpyrrolidinone pyridine tetramethylethylenediamine triethylamine trimethylamine trimethylethylenediamine water and mixtures thereof.

The above described colloidal particles can be made by mixing the nanoparticle in form of powder suspension or a colloidal solution with the inorganic capping agent in accordance with the techniques described herein. The mixing of the nanoparticle with the inorganic capping agent causes a reaction of the nanoparticle with the inorganic capping agent and rapidly produces insoluble and intractable materials. Herein a mixture of immiscible solvents is used to control the reaction of the nanoparticle with the inorganic capping agent. Immiscible solvents facilitate a rapid and complete exchange of the organic capping agents with the inorganic capping agents.

Generally the inorganic capping agent is dissolved in a polar solvent a first solvent while the nanoparticle is dissolved in an immiscible generally non polar solvent a second solvent. These two solutions are then combined in a single vessel. Non limiting examples of polar solvents include 1 3 butanediol acetonitrile ammonia benzonitrile butanol dimethylacetamide dimethylamine dimethylethylenediamine dimethylformamide dimethylsulfoxide dioxane ethanol ethanolamine ethylenediamine ethyleneglycol formamide glycerol methanol methoxyethanol methylamine methylformamide methylpyrrolidinone pyridine tetramethylethylenediamine triethylamine trimethylamine trimethylethylenediamine water and mixtures thereof. Non limiting examples of non polar solvents include pentane pentanes cyclopentane hexane hexanes cyclohexane heptane octane isooctane nonane decane dodecane hexadecane benzene 2 2 4 trimethylpentane toluene petroleum ether ethyl acetate diisopropyl ether diethyl ether carbon tetrachloride carbon disulfide and mixtures thereof provided that the non polar solvent is immiscible with the polar solvent. Other immiscible solvent systems that are applicable include aqueous fluorous organic fluorous and those using ionic liquids.

Without wishing to be bound by theory it is thought that the nanoparticle reacts with the inorganic capping agent at or near the solvent boundary the region where the two solvents meet and a portion of the organic capping agent is exchanged replaced with the inorganic capping agent. That is the inorganic capping agent displaces an organic capping agent from a surface of the nanoparticle and the inorganic capping agent binds to the surface of the nanoparticle. Without wishing to be bound by theory it is thought that this process continues until an equilibrium is established between the inorganic capping agent on a nanoparticle and the free inorganic capping agent. Preferably the equilibrium favors the inorganic capping agent on a nanoparticle although other equilibria are applicable for making mixed colloidal particles. The herein described immiscible solvent method of forming nanoparticles capped with inorganic capping agents has the added benefit of providing for the extraction of the organic capping agents from the inorganic capped nanocrystals.

The extraction of the organic capping agent can provide a solution of an inorganic capped nanocrystal that is substantially free of the organic capping agent. Herein substantially free means the relative concentration of the organic capping agent to the nanoparticle in the solution of the inorganic capped nanocrystal is less than 10 5 4 3 2 1 0.5 and or 0.1 of the concentration in a solution of the organic capped nanocrystal. One means for determining if a solution is substantially free of the organic capping agent is IR spectroscopy and the observation of the absence of C H stretching frequencies.

The benefit of this method can be easily understood through a non limiting example of a CdSe nanoparticle and a SnSe inorganic capping agent a more detailed example is presented below. Typically as made CdSe is coated by a layer of organic capping agents and is soluble in non polar solvents like hexane. The inorganic capping agent SnSe is soluble in polar solvents like dimethylsulfoxide DMSO . DMSO and hexane are appreciably immiscible. Therefore a hexane solution of CdSe rests above a DMSO solution of SnSe. Within a short time after combining the two solutions the color of the hexane solution due to the CdSe will fade and the DMSO layer will become colored. Without wishing to be bound by theory it is thought that this occurs because the organic capping agents are displaced by the inorganic capping agents and the resulting surface charged nanoparticle is then soluble in the polar DMSO solution. See for example which show a negative potential for SnS capped Au and for SnS capped CdSe nanocrystals indicative of a negative surface charge on the nanocrystals. Commonly the uncharged organic capping agent is preferably soluble in the non polar solvent and is thereby physically separated from the nanocrystals affording the opportunity to remove all of the organic capping agent from the inorganic capped nanocrystal. This facile method of making inorganic capped nanoparticles allows for the selective precipitation of these colloidal particles the selective precipitation of excess inorganic capping agent or the direct use of the colloidal particle solution in the manufacture of films crystals or devices.

Examples of colloidal particles include Au.AsS Au.SnS Au.SnS Au.SnSe Au.InSe BiS.SbTe BiS.SbTe BiSe.SbTe BiSe.SbTe CdSe.SnS CdSe.SnTe CdSe.InSe CdSe.GeS CdSe.GeSe CdSe.HgSe CdSe.ZnTe CdSe.SbS CdSe.SbSe CdSe.SbTe CdSe.InTe CdTe.SnS CdTe.SnTe CdTe.InSe Au PbS.SnS Au PbSe.SnS Au PbTe.SnS Au CdS.SnS Au CdSe.SnS Au CdTe.SnS FePt PbS.SnS FePt PbSe.SnS FePt PbTe.SnS FePt CdS.SnS FePt CdSe.SnS FePt CdTe.SnS Au PbS.SnS Au PbSe.SnS Au PbTe.SnS Au CdS.SnS Au CdSe.SnS Au CdTe.SnS FePt PbS.SnSFePt PbSe.SnS FePt PbTe.SnS FePt CdS.SnS FePt CdSe.SnS FePt CdTe.SnS Au PbS.InSeAu PbSe.InSe Au PbTe.InSe Au CdS.InSe Au CdSe.InSe Au CdTe.InSe FePt PbS.InSeFePt PbSe.InSe FePt PbTe.InSe FePt CdS.InSe FePt CdSe.InSe FePt CdTe.InSe CdSe CdS.SnS CdSe CdS.SnS CdSe ZnS.SnS CdSe CdS.GeS CdSe CdS.InSe CdSe ZnS.InSe Cu.InSe CuSe.SnS Pd.AsS PbS.SnS PbS.SnS PbS.SnSe PbS.InSe PbS.SnTe PbS.AsS ZnSe.SnS ZnSe.SnS ZnS.SnS and ZnS.SnS. See for example . As used herein the denotation Au.SnSrefers to a Au nanocrystal capped with a SnSinorganic capping agent. Charges on the inorganic capping agent are omitted for clarity. This nomenclature nanocrystal . inorganic capping agent is used throughout this description. The specific percentages of nanoparticle and inorganic capping agent vary between the colloidal particles. For example in one implementation the energy dispersive X ray EDX spectrum of a sample of CdSe.SnSeshows a composition that corresponds to approximately 95 CdSe nanocrystals and about 5 SnSe. See . In another implementation the EDX spectrum of Au.SnSeshows a composition that corresponds to approximately 90 Au nanocrystals and 10 SnSe. See . Without being bound to theory the different percentages of SnSeobserved in the samples in are believed to correlate with the thio affinity of the nanocrystal surface and surface area.

The described method does not affect the extent of aggregation of the colloidal particles. For example dynamic light scattering shows that a sample of 5 nm Au nanoparticles coated with the inorganic capping agent SnS Au.SnS can have an average hydrodynamic colloidal particle size of about 8 nm and show no aggregation. See . Similarly a sample of 6 nm CdSe nanoparticles coated with the inorganic capping agent SnS CdSe.SnS has an average colloidal particle size of about 8 nm and shows no aggregation. See .

Likewise the described method does not affect the optical absorbance of the capped nanoparticles. shows a white light photograph of colloidal particles prepared from 3.6 nm CdSe nanocrystals. The color of the samples indicative of the electronic characteristics of the nanocrystal did not significantly change when the CdSe is capped with different inorganic capping agents. Similarly a single inorganic capping agent here SnS can cap a wide variety of nanoparticles see e.g. . shows that the herein described colloidal particles are stable and soluble in a variety of solvents and that the electronic characteristics of the underlying nanoparticle are neither changed by the presence of the inorganic capping agent nor the solvent. Had the electronic characteristics of the nanoparticle been affected by the solvent then the optical absorption of the nanoparticle would have changed. See also .

Furthermore the photoluminescence of the nanoparticle is preserved when capped with an inorganic capping agent. shows photoluminescence under UV excitation and lists quantum yields from a sample of CdSe.SnSin different solvents. See for a white light photograph of the same samples. Similarly includes a series of plots of the photoluminescence of a sample of CdSe.SnSin different solvents showing that the emission maximum does not significantly change between solvents.

Moreover the above described method can be adapted to make a wide variety of colloidal particles. Adaptations of the method include adding two different inorganic capping agents to a single nanoparticle e.g. Au. SnS InSe CuSe. InSe GaSe adding two different nanoparticles to a single inorganic capping agent e.g. Au CdSe .SnS CuSe ZnS .SnS adding two different nanoparticles to two different inorganic capping agents e.g. Au CdSe . SnS InSe and or additional multiplicities.

The sequential addition of inorganic capping agents to a nanoparticle is available under the disclosed method. Depending for example upon concentration nucleophilicity capping agent to nanoparticle bond strength and crystal face dependent capping agent to nanoparticle bond strength the inorganic capping of the nanoparticle can be manipulated to yield other combinations. For example assume that a nanoparticle has two faces face A and face B and that the bond strength of the organic capping agent to face A is twice that of the bond strength to face B. The organic capping agents on face B would be preferentially exchanged when employing the herein described methodology. Isolation and reaction of this intermediate species having organic and inorganic capping agents with a second inorganic capping agent would produce a colloidal particle with a first inorganic capping agent on face B and a second inorganic capping agent on face A. Alternatively the preferential binding of inorganic capping agents to specific nanoparticle faces can yield the same result from a single mixture of multiple inorganic capping agents.

Another aspect of the disclosed method is the possibility of a chemical reactivity between inorganic capping agents. For example a first inorganic capping agent bound to the surface of a nanocrystal and reactive with a second inorganic capping agent can directionally react with the second inorganic capping agent. This methodology provides for the synthesis of colloidal particles that could not be selectively made from a solution of nanoparticle and inorganic capping agents. The interaction of the first inorganic capping agent with the nanoparticle controls both the direction and scope of the reactivity of the first inorganic capping agent with the second inorganic capping agent. Furthermore this methodology controls what part of the new inorganic capping agent binds to the nanocrystal. Presumably the result of the addition of a combined inorganic capping agent capping to a nanocrystal by other methods would produce a random arrangement of the combined inorganic capping agent on the nanocrystal.

Yet another method of making colloidal particles involves the mixing of a nanoparticle in a non polar organic solvent with a purified colloidal particle in a polar organic solvent. In this example the colloidal particle in the polar solvent is the inorganic capping agent. These methodologies can form colloidal particle capped nanoparticles and other variations on the herein described capping architecture.

Still another aspect of the current disclosure is the bridging of colloidal particles with metal ion complexing agents. See . Herein bridging means that one or more metal ions individually bind ionically or covalently binding sites on the exterior of a plurality of colloidal particles. Preferably binding sites are parts of the inorganic capping agent that is disposed perpendicular to a surface on the nanoparticle. Understanding that the bridging between two colloidal particles can involve a plurality of metal ions for descriptive purposes the binding of a single metal ion between two colloidal particles is exemplified herein. As described above inorganic capping agents include anionic and neutral capping agents. When for example anionic inorganic capping agents are bound to the surface of a nanoparticle the anionic charge associated with the inorganic capping agent remains providing a theoretical basis for electrostatic repulsion between colloidal particles having anionic inorganic capping agents . The addition of a cationic ion preferably a cationic metal ion still more preferably a polycationic wherein the charge on the metal ion is greater than 1 metal ion to the colloidal particle can produce a colloidal particle with the cationic ion bound to a surface of the colloidal particle specifically to the inorganic capping agent. Additionally the cationic ion can bind to the surface of a second colloidal particle thereby bridging between the two colloidal particles. Preferably the cationic ion is a transition metal ion a main group ion a lanthanide ion or an actinide ion. More preferably the cationic ion is selected from those ions that can impart advanced electronic magnetic e.g. Mn Co or photophysical properties on the bridged colloidal particles. Still more preferably the cation ion is Pt Zn Cd Mn Mn Eu Fe Fe Co Ge Cu Cu Pb Bi Sb In Ga Au Au Ag Sn Sn or Hg. A descriptive drawing of the bridging of a colloidal particle with a cation ion is shown in . When the addition of the cationic ion to the colloidal particle is conducted on a scale wherein there is a multiplicity of colloidal particles the binding and bridging of the colloidal particles is termed a polycondensation reaction. Herein a controlled polycondensation reaction yields colloidal materials. Moreover the selection of cationic ion and polycondensation reaction conditions allows for control of the three dimensional structure of the colloidal material. Without being bound by theory these polycondensation reactions are envisioned as behaving analogously to molecular self assembled three dimensional arrays.

Another aspect of the current disclosure is the isolation of the colloidal particles as colloidal materials. As used herein colloidal materials are samples of the herein described colloidal particle in a solid form. The form can be ordered or disordered. The nanoparticle may have a crystalline that is ordered internal structure but the precipitation of the colloidal particles may produce a random disordered arrangement of particles. Alternatively the controlled dissolution or spontaneous self assembly of the colloidal particles can yield ordered arrays of particles.

The careful deposition of thin layers of colloidal arrays can yield ordered arrays dependent on the packing of the colloidal particle in three dimensional space. As non limiting examples the deposition of colloidal particles of nanocrystals that are roughly spherical has yielded hexagonal close packed arrays of colloidal particles or cubic close packed arrays of colloidal particles. See . Such selective deposition of colloidal particles has advanced materials applications for which the selection of the nanoparticle and the ordering of the three dimensional array can change for example the physical magnetic optical and or electronic characteristics of the material.

Nanocrystals of different size and functionality e.g. noble metals semiconductors oxides magnetic alloys can be induced to self assemble into ordered binary superlattices retaining the size tunable properties of their constituents. A variety of binary superlattices can be built from monodisperse PbS PbSe CoPt FeO Au Ag Pd and the like nanocrystals mixing and matching these nanoscale building blocks to yield multifunctional nanocomposites. See for example . Superlattices with AB AB AB AB AB ABand ABstoichiometry with cubic hexagonal tetragonal and orthorhombic symmetries can be formed. Assemblies with the same stoichiometry can be produced in several polymorphous forms by tailoring the particle size and deposition conditions. Binary superlattices can be isostructural with NaCl CuAu CsCl AlB MgZn MgNi CuAu FeC CaCu CaB NaZnand cub ABand other compounds emphasizing the parallels between nanoparticle assembly and atomic scale crystal growth.

The deposition of layers of the colloidal particles to make colloidal material thin films is another aspect of the current disclosure. See . Depending on the desired application or the available resources multiple film deposition methodologies are available. One method that is applicable to form colloidal material thin films is a reverse Langmuir Blodgett technique. Herein the insolubility of the colloidal particle in nonpolar solvents permits the monolayer deposition of films of the colloidal particle on a substrate. Multiple application of the Langmuir Blodgett technique can be employed to grow multilayer films of the colloidal particle or mixed layer films of colloidal particles.

A second applicable technique for the deposition of layers of the colloidal particles to make colloidal material thin films is spin coating. Here a solution of the colloidal particle is applied to a substrate and the substrate and solution are rapidly rotated to leave a thin layer of the solution on the substrate this solution is then dried leaving the colloidal material thin film. Herein the use of multiple solvents described above provide control in the manufacture of these films. The wetting of the substrate by the colloidal particle solution is an important factor in achieving uniform thin films and the ability to apply the colloidal particle in a variety of different solvents enhances the commercial applicability of this technique. One method to achieve uniform wetting of the substrate surface is to match the surface free energy of the substrate with the surface tension of the liquid colloidal particle solution . Theoretically the perfect wetting of a substrate by a colloidal particle solution would yield a uniform colloidal material thin film on the substrate.

Additional techniques for the deposition of layers of the colloidal particles to make colloidal material thin films include doctor blading spin coating spray coating spray pyrolysis dipping dip coating sputtering printing inkjet printing stamping and the like and combinations of spray coating spray pyrolysis dipping sputtering printing and the like with spin coating.

In another embodiment colloidal material can be produced through the bridging of the colloidal particles with complexing agents thereby forming complexed colloidal particles and or complexed colloidal materials a distinction that is dependent in part on the amount of complexing agent employed. By way of an illustrative example in one embodiment complexed colloidal particles can be formed by the addition of a complexing agent to a colloidal particle. Examples of complexed colloidal particles include but are not limited to combinations of a cationic ion complexing agent and an anionic colloidal particle. The herein described colloidal particle can complex with for example transition metal cations transition metal cation complexes main group cations and the like. Examples of complexing agents include chromium manganese iron cobalt nickel copper zinc ruthenium rhodium palladium silver cadmium osmium iridium platinum gold and mercury cations e.g. Pt Zn Cd Mn Mn Eu Fe Fe Co Ge Cu Cu Pb Bi Sb In Ga Au Au Ag Sn Sn and Hg. With sufficient complexing agent the resultant material complexed colloidal material can be insoluble and described as a polymeric material. See .

In another embodiment the complexed colloidal material is formed by the alternating addition of a substrate to a solution of colloidal particles and to a solution of complexing agent. In this embodiment the substrate preferably has a sufficient affinity for the first material whether colloidal particles or complexing agents such that a layer of the first material uniformly deposits on the surface of the substrate. Examples of substrates wherein the colloidal particle could be the first material include but are not limited to mono or multilayers of copper silver gold nickel palladium platinum alloys and amalgams thereof. Generally for complexed colloidal materials when a colloidal particle has sulfur selenium and or tellurium atoms on the exposed surface the outermost surface of the colloidal particle thiophilic substrates can be employed. Herein thiophilic means having a thermodynamic preference for binding to sulfur selenium and or tellurium. Examples of thiophilic substrates include monolayers multilayers or bulk amounts of silver gold and other known thiophilic substrates.

Another substrate applicable when the first material is a neutral or anionic colloidal particle is a positively charged substrate. Substrates made from glass sapphire quartz silicon or other solid materials can be manipulated to have a positive charge through many known methods. For example the chemical treatment of a substrate with an amine functionalized siloxane can produce a positively charged surface on the substrate.

Still another embodiment of complexed colloidal materials includes the combination of cationic polymers with the colloidal particle. For example an alternating dip coating process can be employed to build layers of a cationic polymer and a colloidal particle. See . As with the embodiments described above the first material added to a substrate can be either a cationic polymer or a colloidal particle. Known methods to form films of polymers on substrates are applicable herein and often a substrate is first coated with the polymer. Examples of polymers include the polyquaternium polymers e.g. poly diallyldimethylammonium chloride polyquaternium 6 CAS 26062 79 3 PDDA and polyethyleneimine PEI . The alternating dip coating can include repetitively dipping a substrate in a first solution rinsing the substrate dipping the substrate in a second solution and rinsing the substrate. Non limiting examples of Layer by Layer assemblies made by this method include 10 20 and 30 layer films of CdSe ZnS.SnSand PDDA and 10 20 and 30 layer films of Au.SnSand PDDA. A substrate prior to any dipping can preferentially bind the colloidal particle thereby the first solution is a solution having the colloidal particle dispersed therein. Additional combination procedures are available for example first spin coating a substrate with a solution of a colloidal particle then dipping the substrate in a solution of a cationic ion and then repeating.

Complexed colloidal materials can further yield ordered arrays. See . For example the complexing agent can be a non polymeric material. One applicable type is cationic amines NRRRR and phosphines PRRRR with aliphatic substituents for example where at least one R group has a C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C C or Calkyl chain. One operative example is the dimethylbisdodecylammonium cation N CH CH . The addition of the cationic amine or phosphine can be by a biphasic transfer of the colloidal particle form a polar solvent into a non polar solvent. One operative example includes the dissolution of a dodecylammonium SnSsalt in a non polar solvent and the dissolution of CdSe.SnSin a polar solvent. The cation exchange can transfer the colloidal particle into the non polar solvent.

Another technique wherein the ability to select the solvent in which the colloidal material is dissolved and from which it is deposited is ink jet deposition. Ink jet deposition often requires the ability to adjust liquid surface tensions to applicable ranges. One easy method for adjusting the surface tension of a liquid containing colloidal particles is the blending or mixing of a multiplicity of solvents.

Yet another application of the present disclosure is the deposition of colloidal particles to make non thin film solids. Herein the described colloidal particles are deposited by bulk techniques to yield three dimensional solids. Known bulk deposition techniques include pressing of powders growth of three dimensional ordered arrays painting printing and the like e.g. the hot pressing of colloidal materials to yield colloidal matrices and or alloys.

Examples of colloidal materials that have been formed through the present techniques include Au.SnS Au.SnSe Au.InSe Au.AsS Pd.AsS CdSe.SnS CdSe.SnS CdSe.SnTe CdSe.SnTe CdSe.InSe CdSe.GeS CdSe.GeSe CdSe.HgSe CdSe.ZnTe CdSe.SbS CdSe.SbSe CdSe.SbTe CdSe.InTe CdSe CdS.SnS CdSe CdS.GeS CdSe CdS.InSe CdSe CdS.SnS CdSe ZnS.SnS BiSe.SbTe PbS.AsS PbS.SnS PbS.SnS PbS.SnSe PbS.InSe PbS.SnTe PbS.AsS PbTe.SnTe FePt.SnS and the like. As used herein the notation for the colloidal materials is the same as the notation for the colloidal particles because the colloidal materials described herein are solid state samples including the herein described colloidal particles.

Still another aspect of the techniques described above for the production or deposition of colloidal materials is the production or deposition of mixed colloidal particle solids. These hetero colloidal materials comprise a plurality of colloidal particles in the resulting solid material. Similar to the disclosure above multiple techniques can be used to produce hetero colloidal materials. Non limiting examples include mixing of colloidal particles in a solvent followed by deposition of a hetero colloidal material alternating deposition of colloidal material films to produce a layered hetero colloidal material multispray coating of a substrate and blending of colloidal material solids followed by pressing into a cohesive material.

One example of the hetero colloidal materials described herein is a binary superlattice. Binary superlattices are those organized structures wherein the three dimensional packing of two different nanoparticles produces an ordered structure. Multiple physical and chemical characteristics can facilitate the production of binary superlattices for example nanoparticle size nanoparticle shape and nanoparticle Coulombic potential. This assembly of two different colloidal particles into a binary superlattice is a general and inexpensive method to produce multiple hetero colloidal materials with precise control of the chemical composition and physical properties. See .

Yet another aspect of the current disclosure is the thermal treatment of the herein described colloidal materials. As discussed above many of the inorganic capping agents are precursors to inorganic materials matrices and low temperature thermal treatment of these inorganic capping agents provides a gentle method to produce crystalline films from these materials. The thermal treatment of colloidal materials yields for example ordered arrays of nanoparticles within an inorganic matrix hetero alloys or alloys. In at least one embodiment herein the thermal treatment of the colloidal material includes heating to a temperature less than about 350 300 250 200 and or 180 C.

Still another aspect of the current disclosure is a low mass volume loss on thermal treatment. The herein described colloidal materials lose less than about 20 15 10 and or 5 of their mass as determined by thermogravimetric analysis TGA upon a thermal treatment up to about 400 and or 450 C. For example CdSe ZnS.SnSloses about 5 of its mass upon heating to about 450 C. whereas the NH SnSused as the inorganic capping agent for the colloidal particle loses about 30 of its mass over the same temperature range. See .

As used herein colloidal matrices are arrays of nanoparticles within an inorganic matrix. Generally the inorganic matrix separates the nanoparticles. The inorganic matrix can be a glass a solid or a crystalline material. Additionally in ordered arrays the order of the array of nanoparticles can be short range or long range. Very dilute samples of nanoparticles in the inorganic matrix are expected to have lower relative ordering than concentrated samples wherein the nanoparticles may be ordered prior to and preferably after the formation of the inorganic matrix.

Colloidal matrices can be homo colloidal matrices or hetero colloidal matrices and can be produced as thin films films coatings and or solids. A homo colloidal matrix is a colloidal matrix having one species of nanoparticle and an inorganic matrix derived from a single inorganic capping agent. Non limiting examples of homo colloidal matrices include SnS Au SnS CdSe SnS CdSe CdS and SnS PbS . See . As used herein the denotation SnS Au refers to Au nanocrystals in a matrix having the approximate formula SnS. A hetero colloidal matrix is a colloidal matrix having for example a multiplicity of nanoparticle species in an inorganic matrix derived from a single inorganic capping agent or one species of nanoparticle in an inorganic matrix derived from a multiplicity of inorganic capping agents. One example of the latter hetero colloidal matrix is the matrix produced by thermally treating a mixture of CdSe.SnSand CdSe CdS.SnS denoted SnS CdSe CdSe CdS .

Additional embodiments of hetero colloidal matrices include those formed by selective deposition of colloidal materials in confined spatial arrangements followed by thermal treatment to form the inorganic matrix. The layered structured or patterned deposition of a plurality of colloidal materials followed by thermal treatment to form an inorganic matrix can create solid state architectures that are not available by other known methodologies. One illustrative example of the present embodiment is the patterned deposition of CdSe.SnSnanoparticles followed by the patterned deposition of Au.SnS. The thermal treatment of this illustrative example can produce three distinct material regions within a single inorganic matrix derived from SnS that is this patterned colloidal matrix will include regions of matrix encapsulated CdSe nanoparticles regions containing a matrix encapsulated mixture of CdSe and Au nanoparticles and regions of matrix encapsulated Au nanoparticles.

The colloidal matrices can be produced in thin films films coatings solids and or mixed solids. Moreover the colloidal matrices can be produced in bulk layered structured or patterned arrangements on a substrate. Additionally the procedure described herein can yield colloidal matrices that effectively preserve the electronic characteristics of the nanoparticle after thermal treatment. shows the optical absorbance spectrum of thin films of an organic capped CdSe CdSe organic capping agent s an inorganic capped CdSe CdSe.SnS and a CdSe colloidal matrix SnS CdSe . The absorption at approximately 600 nm is apparent in all samples and is characteristic of the presence of the CdSe nanocrystal.

Another embodiment of the materials and methods disclosed herein is an alloy made from a nanoparticle and an inorganic capping agent. Alloys are continuous homogeneous phases of a composition and herein alloys are produced by the thermal treatment of the disclosed colloidal particles. Similar to the colloidal matrices the formulation of the alloy is dependent on the nanoparticle and inorganic capping agent. Unlike the colloidal matrices the formation of the alloy involves the destructive reaction of the inorganic capping agent and or optionally additional reagent s with the nanoparticle herein a destructive reaction means the nanoparticle loses at least one aspect of its defining physical characteristic examples include size shape photoactivity formulation and the like. Non limiting examples include the formation of a CdSnSealloy from CdSe.SnScolloidal particles the formation of a CuInSealloy from any one of the following colloidal particles CuSe.InSe CuSe.InSe CuS.InSe and or CuS.InSe the formation of a CuZnSnSalloy from a mixture of CuS.SnSand ZnS.SnS and the formation of CuInGaSe e.g. CuInGaSeand CuInGaSe alloy from CuSe. InSe GaSe . See B.

Generally the formation of an alloy requires some atom mobility during the thermal treatment phase and processing conditions can and often do affect the formation of an alloy. The incomplete alloying of the disclosed materials whether purposefully or serendipitously yields a hetero alloy. As used herein hetero alloys are solid state materials formed from the thermal treatment of a colloidal material that is characterized by a multiplicity of domains wherein the domains may have different formulations and or crystal structures and or crystallinity. Whether a thermal treatment of a colloidal material forms an alloy or a hetero alloy is often difficult to determine but without being bound by theory it is believed that a lower temperature thermal treatment limits atom mobility and therefore prohibits the formation of a homogeneous phase alloy .

Representative non limiting examples of the formation of what are believed to be hetero alloys are the thermal treatment of BiS.SbTe nanorods to form a BiSbTehetero alloy see .

The structure of the resulting alloy or hetero alloy is dependent on the formulation of the colloidal particle. For example a BiSbTealloy or hetero alloy made from a colloidal material that has a high Bi Sb ratio has a significantly smaller crystal domain than a BiSbTealloy or hetero alloy made from a colloidal material that has a low Bi Sb ratio. See . Not only do the two materials have different crystal domain sizes EDS spectra indicate that the relative concentration of Bi in the latter sample is indeed lower than in the former. See . This comparative example indicates that multiple hetero alloys can be produced from identical starting materials and that the relative composition of the alloy can be controlled by selective synthesis of the precursor colloidal material. See .

Often the differences between the materials herein described as colloidal matrices and as hetero alloys are difficult to determine experimentally. Furthermore the process for forming these materials may affect the nature of the resultant materials. While time and temperature are well known to affect the formation of alloys herein phase solubility can further affect the formation of a homogeneous phase. For example PbTe is largely insoluble in SbTe. See . The resultant material from the thermal processing of PbTe.SbTecan be described as either a hetero alloy or a colloidal matrix depending on the structure of the PbTe in the final material still further the resultant material can be comprised of both a hetero alloy and a colloidal matrix.

One reaction condition that may affect the characteristics of the resultant materials is the relative concentration of the nanoparticle. The dilution in the solid phase of the nanoparticle in an excess of the inorganic capping agent can lead to smaller nanoparticles in the resultant material. As the relative concentration of the nanoparticle increases the inter particle interactions can increase and the size and nature of the nanoparticle can change. See . At an extreme the concentration of the nanoparticle can be sufficiently high that the resultant materials can be a phase corresponding to the composition or reaction product of the nanoparticle and optionally include phase corresponding to the composition of the inorganic capping agent. Without being bound to theory it is believed that Ostwald ripening can affect the phases in the materials.

The reactive loss of a chalcogenide can further facilitate the formation of colloidal matrices alloys and or hetero alloys. When for example thermodynamics favor the formation of selenides or tellurides over sulfides the reactive loss of sulfur can facilitate the formation of selenium and or tellurium based materials. This reactive loss of chalcogenide can be facilitated by the addition of an excess of a selenium or tellurium containing inorganic capping agent and or through the addition of an excess of selenium or tellurium. Non limiting examples include the thermal processing of CuS.InSeand or CuS.InSewhere selenium reacts to displace sulfur see and BiS.SbTe BiS. SbTe Te BiS.SbTe and or PbS.SbTe wherein X is a value of either 1 or 2 and Y is a value from 3 to 10 where tellurium reacts to displace sulfur and yield telluride materials. This technique is remarkably facile and especially useful when the selenium or tellurium nanocrystals are inaccessible due to thermal stability or other limitations.

Similar to the disclosure above where multiple inorganic capping agents can be employed selenides or tellurides can be doped into the formation of colloidal matrices alloys or heteroalloys by reactive loss of a chalcogenide. In one embodiment selenium can be doped into a reaction that provides a telluride colloidal matrix alloy or heteroalloy by reactive loss of sulfur by the addition of an amount of selenide containing inorganic capping agent to the colloidal material. In a similar embodiment tellurium can be doped into a selenide colloidal matrix alloy or heteroalloy by reactive loss of sulfur by the addition of an amount of telluride containing inorganic capping agent to the colloidal material. By way of a non limiting example selenium can be doped into a tellurium containing alloy by the addition of an amount of the selenium containing inorganic capping agent SbSeto the colloidal particle BiS.SbTe or BiS. SbTe SbSe the admixture can then be thermally processed to form an n doped BiSbTeSe. See .

The balancing of thermal stability against reactivity can yield materials where some nanocrystals react and others alloy. For example mixing the processes of alloying and hetero alloying ion capped BiS.SbTeand PbTe.SbTeyields a PbTe Bi.SbTe hetero alloy. See . Similarly the thermal processing of a colloidal material that comprises a mixture of Au.SbTeand BiS.SbTeyields a Au Bi SbTe heteroalloy where discrete Au nanocrystals can be observed in the TEM images. See .

Typically the colloidal materials colloidal matrices and alloys are fabricated by a deposition on a substrate. Suitable examples of substrates include but are not limited to silicon amorphous hydrogenated silicon silicon carbide silicon dioxide silicon nitride aluminum oxide aluminum nitride carbon hydrogenated carbon gallium nitride gallium arsenide germanium silicon germanium indium tin oxide boron carbide boron nitride borosilicate cerium oxide tin oxide zinc titanate a glass a metal an organic semiconductor a polymeric material or a combination thereof. Examples of organic semiconductors and or polymeric materials include polycarbonates poly 3 hexylthiophene poly p phenylene vinylene poly 9 9 dioctylfluorene co benzothiadiazole F8BT poly 9 9 dioctylfluorene co bis N N 4 butylphenyl bis N N phenyl 1 4 phenylenediamine poly 9 9 dioctylfluorene co bis N N 4 butylphenyl diphenylamine TFB poly 4 4 oxydiphenylene pyromellitimide Kapton polyethylene terephthalate e.g. Mylar poly paraphenylene terephthalamide e.g. Kevlar polyacetylenes and the like. Furthermore substrates can be planar or nonplanar.

Yet another embodiment of the materials and methods disclosed herein is the deposition of colloidal matrices alloys or hetero alloys on a surface to form an advanced material a printed circuit a photovoltaic cell a piezoelectric crystal a thermoelectric layer an optoelectronic layer a light emitting diode a ferroelectric layer a thin film transistor a floating gate memory device a phase change layer a sensor device detectors of light X ray and gamma radiation an imaging device and the like. See . The colloidal materials disclosed herein are applicable for the printing or deposition of colloidal matrices alloys or hetero alloys through the application and optionally heating of the colloidal material on a substrate. Representative examples of the application of the disclosed colloidal materials include sputter deposition electrostatic deposition spray deposition spin coating inkjet deposition laser printing matrices and the like. An alternative method of deposition is the electrochemical deposition of a colloidal matrix from a solution of a colloidal material.

The low temperature formation of the colloidal matrix alloy or hetero alloy makes the disclosed methodology compatible with photolithographic patterning for example wherein a photolithographic applied substrate mask is removed after the thermal treatment of the colloidal material.

Another aspect of the disclosed materials and methods is the formation of materials that exhibit enhanced thermoelectric properties that is the direct conversion of a thermal gradient to electrical energy. Thermoelectric energy conversion is an all solid state effect that converts thermal gradients directly to electrical energy without an electromechanical generator. The derived voltage and power work drains the heat from the location of the thermal gradient. Materials that display thermoelectric energy conversion are useful in heat pumps power generators and thermoelectric coolers. Thermoelectric devices have no moving parts and therefore have advantages in reliability silent operation high power density and high efficiency for moderate power applications. In addition thermoelectric materials can be used for cooling by driving current through the material.

The efficiency of thermoelectric generators is limited to a fraction of the generators Carnot efficiency determined by the thermoelectric figure of merit zT where S is the thermoelectric power the Seebeck coefficient of the material is the electrical conductivity of the material is the thermal conductivity of the material and T is the absolute temperature. The higher zT the more efficient the material is at converting heat to electricity. All current commercial thermoelectric materials have figures of merit of approximately 1.

The materials and methods described herein are applicable for the manufacture of high zT thermoelectric materials and devices. Bi SbTeis a thermoelectric material easily manufactured by the disclosed methods. Moreover as theoretical studies suggest that an increase in the phonon scattering at the domain boundaries increases the thermoelectric figure of merit and the domain boundaries in the disclosed BiSbTematerial are dependent on the annealing process and the size of the nanoparticle the thermoelectric figure of merit in the disclosed materials is tunable. Preferably the thermoelectric figure of merit zT for the BiSbTematerial is greater than 0.7 1 1.5 2 and or 3.

The following examples are provided to illustrate the invention but are not intended to limit the scope thereof.

Aqueous NHOH solution 8 mL 28 30 of NH was mixed with aqueous NH SnS 0.5 mL 0.1 M or NaSnS 0.3 mL 0.1 M . Hexane 6 mL and toluene solution of 3 10 nm CdSe or 6.5 nm CdSe ZnS NCs 1 mL 25 mg mL were added to the same vial and the mixture was vigorously stirred until the phase transfer of NCs from the organic phase into aqueous phase was completed. The aqueous phase was rinsed 3 times with hexane and filtered through a 0.45 m PTFE filter. In order to separate the excess amount of inorganic capping agents a minimal amount of acetonitrile was added to precipitate the colloidal particles. The colloidal particles were collected by centrifuging redispersed in water and centrifuged filtered to remove traces of insoluble materials if any.

5 mL formamide were mixed with 0.4 mL NaSnSin FA 0.05 M hexane 5 mL and 8 nm CdSe NCs in toluene 0.4 mL 40 mg mL and stirred until the phase transfer of CdSe NCs was completed. formamide phase was washed with hexane 3 times filtered and mixed with acetonitrile 1 1 v v to precipitate colloidal particles. After centrifuging colloidal particles were redissolved in 5 mL formamide. Similar procedure was also applied for 3 10 nm PbS 5 nm Au and 4 nm FePt NCs. The reaction can be facilitated by heating solutions to 70 C.

In a glovebox 5 mL formamide vacuum dried at 100 C. was mixed with 0.5 1 mL KSnTein formamide 0.1 M 6 mL anhydrous hexane and the toluene solution of either CdSe CdTe or PbTe NCs 1 mL 25 mg mL and stirred until the completion of transfer of NCs into the formamide phase. After the organic phase was discarded the colloidal particle solution was rinsed 3 times with hexane filtered mixed with acetonitrille 1 5 v v to precipitate the colloidal particles and to remove excessive KSnTe. NCs were isolated by centrifuging and redispersed in formamide DMSO DMF or methanol.

A solution of NH SnSin ethanolamine was diluted with DMSO. This DMSO solution was added to a hexane solution of CdSe nanocrystals. The mixture was vigorously stirred while NHwas purged through the solution. The completion of the reaction as determined by the transfer of color from the hexane to the DMSO was complete within about 20 minutes. Then the hexane phase was removed the DMSO solution was washed with hexane and the product CdSe.SnS isolated from the DMSO or used in situ.

Representative examples of Colloidal Particles that have been made by the methodology of Example 1 and illustrated in the following table 

Under an inert atmosphere a solution of NH SbTe in hydrazine was combined with a hexane solution of BiSnanorods. The mixture was stirred for approximately 3 hours and then the hexane layer was decanted from the mixture. The product solution generally black in color was washed four times with hexane filtered and then stored under an inert atmosphere.

Employing the procedure in Example 5 a series of BiS.SbTe samples can be prepared where the Bi to Sb ratio is changed. First a stock solution of SbTe in hydrazine was prepared. The amount of the stock solution used depended on the desired ratio but for all samples the stock solution was combined with excess hydrazine to produce an approximately constant volume of the inorganic capping agent solution. Varying amounts of BiSnanorods were dissolved in a constant volume of hexane and then added to the inorganic capping agent solution according to Example 5. The following ratios of Bi to Sb were prepared 5 Bi 95 Sb 20 Bi 80 Sb 40 Bi 60 Sb 60 Bi 40 Sb 95 Bi 5 Sb.

After washing and filtration the samples were dried by evaporation of hydrazine under a stream of N. The silver black solids were annealed at 350 C. under Nand the metallic powder analyzed. See .

A highly doped silicon wafer with a 100 nm thick thermal silicon oxide gate dielectric was patterned with bottom Ti Au electrodes on the silicon oxide by photolithography. This wafer was washed with acetone isopropanol and ethanol then plasma cleaned in air for 30 min. Under inert atmosphere the wafer was covered with several drops of the solution prepared in Example 5. The sample was allowed to stand for 20 min and then was spun according to the following series of steps 1 spun at 450 rpm for 20 s 2 spun at 900 rpm for 20 s 3 spun up to 4000 rpm within 20 s and then 4 spun at 4000 rpm for 20 s. The wafer coated with a mirror like film was heated to 350 C. for 90 min to anneal the composite.

Substrates were freshly hydrophilized by 15 min treatment with oxygen plasma. The colloidal particle was then deposited by drop casting at 80 C. or by spray coating. The homogeneity and thickness of the drop cast films were adjusted by controlling the volume and the concentration of colloidal particle in a solution. 1 10 v v DMSO were usually added to NHsolutions to improve homogeneity of drop cast films. For spray coating glass substrates were placed on a hot plate at 100 200 C. while a Bi Sb TeNC ink solution was applied at a sprayer pressure of 15 20 psi using Nas a carrier gas. The film thickness was adjusted by the number of applied spraying cycles typically 5 to 80. As deposited Bi Sb Tefilms were heated at 300 C. hour and annealed at 300 C. for 15 min followed by slow cooling to room temperature.

Colloidal particles and more particularly colloidal matrices formed using techniques as described herein may be formed into various semiconductor materials and structures.

When two or more metallic or semiconducting nanoparticles are in close proximity to each other their wave functions can couple together forming states delocalized over several nanocrystals or propagating throughout the entire nanocrystalline solid. The quantum mechanical coupling energy can be approximated as exp 2 where h is Planck s constant is the tunneling rate between two nanocrystal neighbors m is the carrier effective mass E and x are the height of the tunneling barrier and the shortest edge to edge distance between the nanocrystals respectively. As a result it was explored whether the present techniques could replace the bulky insulating hydrocarbon chains between nanocrystals with much smaller and more conductive inorganic capped nanoparticles to significantly facilitate electron sharing between colloidal particles. Specifically the coupling between colloidal particles formed herein was analyzed by optical absorption and charge transport measurements. Thus for 4.6 nm CdSe nanoparticles capped with conventional hydrocarbon ligands the absorption spectra of colloidal solutions and close packed films are very similar to each other indicative of strong localization of electron and hole wave functions on individual nanoparticles as shown in . In contrast the excitonic features in close packed films of CdSe nanoparticles capped with SnS showed a pronounced 46 meV red shift compared to individual nanoparticles in solution as shown in . Such a shift implies partial leakage of the wave functions into neighboring nanoparticles that relaxes the quantum confinement. Conversion of the SnS ligands to SnSat 180 C. lowers the barrier heights E leading to an additional 34 meV red shift of the optical transitions in the nanoparticle solid while maintaining excitonic features and quantum confinement as shown in . Similarly Au nanoparticles capped with SnS showed a pronounced plasmonic absorption peak around 535 nm in solution which completely disappeared in nanocrystal films indicating strong delocalization of the electronic states. Note that all observed spectral changes were reversible the plasmonic peak appeared again after redissolution of the nanoparticles film. The reference samples of dodecanethiol capped Au nanoparticles showed strong plasmonic absorption in solutions and in close packed films .

To examine charge transport highly doped Si wafers with a 110 nm thick layer of thermal oxide and lithographically patterned Ti Au electrode structures were used. The Si substrate was used as the back gate electrode for field effect transistor FET measurements. Close packed nanoparticle films were deposited on these substrates by spin coating or dropcasting. The film thickness was measured using AFM profiles and cross sectional SEM studies. The amount of the inorganic capping agent was kept below 10 wt sufficient to provide colloidal stabilization but insufficient to form any continuous conductive channels of phase separated metal chalcogenide as evidenced by XRD studies.

The original organic ligands rendered nanoparticle films highly insulating with conductivities a on the order of 10S cmfor 5 nm Au nanocrystals NCs and less than 10S cmfor 5.5 nm CdSe nanoparticles. Replacing dodecanethiol ligands with SnS increased the conductivity of Au NC solids by 11 orders of magnitude approaching 200 S cm . After electrical measurements the film could be easily dissolved in hydrazine or HO. Comparison of TEM images before and after electrical measurements revealed no changes in nanoparticle size and shape ruling out sintering as a possible reason for the observed very high conductivity. The TEM analysis revealed a strong decrease in the mean interparticle distance from 1.6 nm for dodecanethiol capped Au nanoparticles to less than 0.5 nm for SnS capped Au particles .

In particular inorganic capping agent capping of colloidal particles is a promising approach to designing solution processed inorganic semiconductors. show characteristics of a field effect transistor with a channel assembled of 4.5 nm CdSe nanoparticles capped with SnS and annealed for a short time at 200 C. An n type gate effect with current modulation I I 10was observed along with an electron mobility 3 10cmVsin the saturation regime. Compared to other CdSe nanoparticles inorganic capping agent capped CdSe NCs enabled appreciable performance of solid state FETs while retaining optical and electronic tunability provided by the quantum confinement. Furthermore illumination of the inorganic capping agent capped CdSe nanoparticles increased their conductivity by several orders of magnitude as shown for SnSe capped CdSe NCs .

Close packed films colloidal materials of colloidal particles can be deposited on highly doped Si wafers with 110 nm thick layer of thermal oxide and back gate geometry by spin coating and then aluminum electrodes are deposited on the film using a shadow mask. The total amount of inorganic capping agent in the colloidal materials was less than about 10 wt of the colloidal materials at this weight percentage the inorganic capping agent can provide colloidal stabilization but does not form a continuous conductive matrix of phase separated metal chalcogenide . The deposited close packed films can be annealed at 200 C. for about 0.5 1 hr. After annealing the conductivity of films made from CdSe.InSedramatically increased. The current between source and drain electrodes I could be modulated by applying voltage to the gate terminal V . Iincreased with increasing V typical for n type conductivity through FET channel . The field effect mobility estimated from the slope of Ivs Vplot was significantly improved as 11.32 15.3 cm Vs and the I Iratio was 1 10. With out being bound to theory it is believed that the wave functions of the colloidal materials with physically smaller inorganic capping agents can strongly couple and form short range and or long range delocalized electronic structure. The quantum mechanical coupling energy can be approximated as h exp 2 2m E x where h is Planck s constant is the tunneling rate between two nanocrystal neighbors m is the carrier effective mass E and x are the height of tunneling barrier and the shortest edge to edge distance between the nanoparticles respectively. Replacement of bulky insulating hydrocarbon chains with much smaller and more conductive inorganic capping agents theoretically reduces both the tunneling barrier and edge to edge distances and promotes favorable electronic communication between nanoparticles. Furthermore conversion of the InSe inorganic capping agent to InSeat 200 C. lowers the barrier heights E leading to an additional red shift of the optical transitions in the annealed material while maintaining the excitonic features and quantum confinement .

In the previous examples inorganic capping agents behaved as electronically transparent glue for nanoparticles. However inorganic capping agents can also be used for creating composite materials where the properties of the inorganic capping agent and nanoparticle components complement each other. Thermal decomposition of the hydrazinium based inorganic capping agents for example was shown to generate various chalcogenide phases with n and p type conductivity and phase change properties. For example combining electron conducting nanowires e.g. CdS with hole conducting hosts e.g. CuInGaSe can form materials with distributed networks of p n junctions. It is also possible to create new phases through solid state reactions between nanoparticles and inorganic capping agents. As an example a highly conductive BiSbTefilm was fabricated using BiSnanorods and a soluble SbTe NHcomplex containing an excess of Te. Upon heating to 180 C. the inorganic capping agent decomposed into SbTereleasing free tellurium which immediately reacted with the BiSphase BiS 3Te BiTe 3S leading to the formation of a nanocrystalline BiSbTecomposite phase see e.g. presumably with Bi and Sb rich nanometer scale regions. The original BiSnanorods capped with oleic acid were highly insulating 5 10S cm . However spin coated films of inorganic capping agent capped BiSnanorods dried at 60 C. showed conductivity of 0.074 S cm which increased to 22 S cmupon formation of a BiSbTenanocomposite at 180 C. . A film of oleic acid capped BiSnanorods annealed at 180 C. showed a much lower conductivity of 4 10S cm. Solid solutions and quantum well superlattices of BiTeand SbTeare known as superior materials for thermoelectrics. Therefore such materials can be formed into various thermoelectric materials.

Fresh solution of BiS.SbTenanorods in hydrazine NC inks were used for solution deposition of uniform TE films. Spin casting can generate smooth and continuous thin films 10 50 nm thick however thicker films are required for practical TE applications. Therefore further comparative studies were conducted on either drop cast and spray coated samples fabricated on glass substrates. Both techniques readily produce 0.1 0.4 km thick films with low surface roughness of 10 50 nm . Sample compositions were adjusted to BiSbTewith 10 batch to batch variations. All samples were annealed at 300 C. I V curves for each sample with gold electrodes showed high conductivity and excellent linearity over the entire range of applied voltages. The measured conductivities for drop cast films spread in a broad range from 30 to 200 S cm depending upon the concentration of cracks and other structural defects. In contrast spray coated samples on average showed higher conductivities of 200 450 S cmat room temperature . Thermopower measurements revealed p type conductivity and Seebeck coefficients of 170 250 V K . Unlike electrical conductivity which is very sensitive to homogeneity of the sample thermopower is an inherent material property and is reproducible within 10 for the series of same formulated samples. Our values of S are similar to the previously reported value 210 V K for the bulk Bi Sb Tegenerated by hot pressing ball milled nanopowders and this is currently the best bismuth telluride material with conductivity in excess of 1000 S cmand ZT 1.2 at room temperature. Our solution processed samples compare quite favourably with the vacuum deposited thin film Bi Te materials which are naturally less conductive than bulk materials. Representative literature examples include flash evaporated n type Bi Te based thin films 540 S cm flash evaporated BiSbTethin films 550 S cm co evaporated BiTethin films 166 S cm 770 S cm and sputtered Bi Sb Te thin films 70 200 S cm .

Using the procedure in Example 4 formamide solutions of CuSe.SnSand ZnS.SnSwere prepared. These solutions were admixed at an approximate 2 1 atomic ratio for Cu to Zn and the amount of SnSwas adjusted to an approximate 1 1 atomic ratio for Zn to Sn. The deposition solution was drop cast onto a hydrophilized glass substrate. The cast colloidal material was then thermally processed at 600 C. for 2 h. The powder X ray diffraction pattern of the as made alloy matches the diffraction pattern for CZTS JCPDS no. 26 0575 CuZnSnS. See . The composition of the as made alloy is believed to contain selenium and have the approximate formula CuZnSn S Se .

Samples of platinum bridged CdSe.SnSeand platinum bridged CdSe.SnSwere prepared by warming solutions of the respective colloidal particles in formamide to 80 C. To these solutions solutions of KPtClin formamide were added. From these solutions the colloidal materials Pt CdSe.SnSe and Pt CdSe.SnS precipitated. The colloidal materials were then isolated and washed with a solvent e.g. formamide and or water capable of removing any free ionic species.

A hydrazine solution of InSe Se 49 L 0.25M was diluted with 1.5 mL NHin a 6 mL vial. Then 1 mL of 5 mg mL CuSe in toluene and 1 mL extra toluene were added to the vial. The two phase mixture was vigorously stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. The upper toluene phase was discarded and the bottom hydrazine phase was washed 3 times with 2 mL toluene. Afterwards 21 L of a GaSesolution 0.25M in hydrazine was added to the washed colloidal particle solution here the In Ga ratio is approximately 7 3 . The deposition of the colloidal particles CuSe. InSe GaSe evaporation of the solvent and thermal annealing yielded pure copper indium gallium selenide as confirmed by XRD studies. See .

Using the procedure of Example 10 a solution of CuInSe.InSeis made from CuInSeand InSe. Deposition and thermal processing of the colloidal particles yields copper indium diselenide films where mass lost during thermal processing is less than about 5 as determined by TGA.

The foregoing description is given for clearness of understanding only and no unnecessary limitations should be understood therefrom as modifications within the scope of the invention may be apparent to those having ordinary skill in the art.

