---

title: System and method for social product information sharing
abstract: A system for electronic commerce, comprising a portal server executing on a digital computer, coupled to a digital packet network and an analysis software executing on a server or another digital computer(s), adapted to receive information from a user via the digital packet network, said information including at least a plurality of data elements pertaining to products owned, used, or sought by the user, wherein the received information is made available to the analysis software, which computes a maturity score for the user based at least in part on the received information, and wherein the portal server uses at least a maturity score to order a selection of information be provided to the user, and wherein at least some of the received information is made available to a plurality of external systems based at least in part on privacy settings established by or for the particular user, is disclosed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08484080&OS=08484080&RS=08484080
owner: Nahu BVBA
number: 08484080
owner_city: Rijkevorsel
owner_country: BE
publication_date: 20100510
---
The present invention is in the field of e commerce particularly as it pertains to electronic platforms to facilitate targeted marketing based on deep user profiles and consumer end user feedback and interaction with both retailers and other consumers.

Electronic commerce has become embedded in cultures throughout the developed world. At the same time consumers worldwide have incorporated Internet communication as an integral part of their lifestyle. Social networks such as Facebook and MySpace and business orientated networking platforms such as LinkedIn continue to grow in popularity. Blogging platforms such as Twitter or Google Buzz provide additional ways for users to keep in touch with friends and family and to make new social contacts worldwide. E commerce platforms such as eBay and Amazon.com allow retailers easy access to consumers and even allow retail consumers to become sellers. The popularity of electronic social networks and electronic commerce has led to profound changes within our culture particularly concerning production and consumption of advertisements.

The online advertising market continues to grow and become a larger portion of total advertising revenue. Currently the total US advertising market is around 100 billion with the online portion now accounting for approximately 24 billion of that total. Most of the online advertising market is based on page and or search content. There is limited ability to target a consumer beyond knowing search and site preferences. Click through rates on Internet advertisements increase dramatically when the advertisements can be more specifically targeted to the consumer type most likely to be interested in a specific product group. Individual consumers better tolerate banner pop up and video advertisements on their favorite Internet sites if the ads are more relevant to the individual consumer and less randomly placed.

Both retailers and end user consumers benefit from the ability to see product reviews by individuals that have recently purchased or used a specific product or service. In the present art any feedback or review available could be difficult to find and to trust as this information may be spread out over a number of individual sites and there is little if any control over who can input material for reviews. For example a retailer may be unaware that a consumer has found dissatisfaction with their product and has blogged about it on a third party site which the retailer is not monitoring. A consumer would have no reason to trust a review in a particular site that could have been embellished by the very retailer that sells the product or service. An individual unhappy customer could skew the ratings for a particular product by repeatedly giving extremely negative feedback on a particular site. An individual may give a glowing review for a product they just purchased but several months down the road may have had numerous problems with the product and if queried now would give a much different review and yet the glowing review may be left on particular site for many months or years without any follow up. Although there are mechanisms for feedback between retailers and consumers and between consumers themselves in the present art there is little control over the process and feedback is widely scattered over multiple sites and often not trustworthy making the information less valuable.

While the current art of social networks and e commerce have the ability to collect limited data about individual consumers the information is incomplete and often out of date and may be scattered over multiple platforms. Normally the data profiling an individual consumer would not include feedback from that consumer on products he or she is using. There would be little chance that an e retailer could specifically target potential customers who are in fact looking for a specific product or service. Any data collected needs to be updated over time as the individual consumer s circumstances change. In the current art the consumer has little if any incentive to give more detailed information or feedback that might be useful for the retailer. Other individuals in a consumer s social network might be very much influenced by purchasing decisions and product reviews from peers. In the current art the retailer is for the most part completely blind to positive or negative influences their customers have within their own social networks.

Another challenge in the art today is the balance of privacy and value. Consumers seek to maintain their privacy to some extent but are desirous of realizing the value of many of the new online services most of which require them to divulge personal information or to allow the service provider to observe a significant portion of their online activities which amounts to the same thing .

In summary while both consumers and retailers are adapting to the paradigm of the Internet world there needs to be a better way to facilitate interactions between retailers and consumers and between consumers themselves that provides benefits for the retailer the consumer and the advertising industry while maintaining a reasonable balance and a consumer controlled balance between privacy and value. In the current art there considerable limitations on the ability for retailers to deliver deeply targeted advertisements to the consumer to get reliable feedback from the consumer and for consumers to efficiently get trusted advice from other consumers who are using or have purchased particular products.

In order to address the problems described above the inventor provides a system for producing a rich and dynamic customer profile also referred to herein as a deep profile that is built with a customer s full cooperation and knowledge and that allows retailers to deliver deeply targeted advertisements to these consumers. The invention will enable companies to deliver the right products and services to the right prospective client at the right time. The invention builds and maintains a dynamic database of what participating consumers purchase what other items they own what items they may need or desire where and from whom items were purchased and feedback on how consumers feel about purchased products over time. Through integration with social networks a platform according to the invention knows who each consumer is and how they fit in the social universe. The invention also provides a platform for detailed and reliable customer product reviews and comparison tools that benefit consumers as well as companies. Because the invention provides benefits to both retailers and consumers both parties have incentives to fully participate in the flow of information. Data is updated continually both through active consumer participation and through passive tracking as consumers go about normal online activities such as social networking and browsing. The invention aims to improve customer service and help companies better understand their customers. Another aim of the invention is to allow consumers to resell and list products they have that others in the network might be looking for.

In an embodiment the invention collects information from consumers search engine inquiries social networks online retail transactions e mail and IM networks and even locations visited in both the real and virtual worlds. Along with passive collection of this data systems according to the invention regularly query consumers for small bites of information and feedback in a manner that is convenient and helpful. The invention seeks to keep all information relevant by asking if information has changed and asking new questions over time. An embodiment of the invention calculates a maturity score for each consumer based on depth and quality of data collected and on level of participation by a given consumer in giving feedback. In various embodiments the maturity score takes into account completeness of profiles quality balance and quantity of feedback size and aggregate maturity in the sense described herein of each consumer s social networks updating of information over time and so forth. It will be appreciated that there are many other items of interest that can be used to modify a user s maturity rating the examples just listed serve to illustrate but should not be taken as limiting the scope of the invention.

Embodiments of the invention incentivize consumer participation by giving points or other incentives as consumers profiles mature and are updated. These points can be redeemed for discounts on products and services offered by participating companies. In an embodiment a maturity score is dynamically calculated for a consumer profile based on quantity quality and balance of feedback from individual consumer clients. Some of this feedback is generated by surveys and detailed product reviews and direct consumer input. Other data may be obtained passively in an embodiment where an enrolled consumer client allows for this by appropriately setting consumer profile preferences. Passive data may include location data from registered devices used by a consumer online transactions search engine queries social contacts and event data in various embodiments.

The consumer also benefits by having access to trusted and detailed product reviews and in another embodiment real time advice from other consumers in a network and by having an ability to buy and sell items with other consumers within a network. An example of this would be an embodiment that allows for an enrolled consumer to snap a picture of an item he is looking to purchase and getting detailed feedback from other consumers in addition to retailers solicitations. In this example another consumer might offer to sell the photographed item that she no longer needs and is willing to part with or detailed product review information might convince the inquiring consumer to seek a different product. A further incentive for customers to enroll would be an ability to see prices that others have recently paid and to initiate retailer competition for their business. Product comparison tools in various embodiments are also available to enrolled consumers giving further benefit for participation in programs operating according to the invention.

The ability to deliver targeted deep profile ads to consumers with specific profiles and to be able to track effectiveness of those ads is a huge benefit for retailer clients. An additional benefit for retailer clients is feedback exemplary platforms provide from both customers and potential customers. This feedback is updated over time providing a continual flow of information that companies can use to improve their products and customer service. The platform also provides a communication network between retailers and consumers whereby warranty information product recall notices new product innovations and the like can be easily disseminated directly from companies to customers.

The ability to generate and dynamically update detailed consumer profiles vastly improves the ability to deliver targeted advertisements to profiled consumers. Both consumer clients and retailer clients benefit from the flow of information.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention an e commerce system comprising a portal server executing on a digital computer and coupled to a digital packet network and an analysis software executing on the server system or executing on another digital computer and adapted to communicate with the server across the digital packet network is disclosed. According to the embodiment the portal server is adapted to receive information from a user via the digital packet network said information including at least a plurality of data elements pertaining to products owned used or sought by the user. Additionally the received information is made available to the analysis software and the analysis software computes a maturity score for the user based at least in part on the received information provided to the analysis software said maturity score further being provided to the portal server. Finally the portal server uses at least a maturity score to order a selection of information to be provided to the user.

In a further embodiment of the invention the analysis software further computes a user profile based at least in part on the received information and on the history of information updates received from the user by the portal server. In another further embodiment of the system the e commerce system further comprises an advertising server coupled to the portal server or operating as a software module within the portal server. According to the embodiment the advertising server selects from among a plurality of available advertisements particular advertisements to be displayed to the user based at least in part the user profile. In some embodiments of the invention the digital packet network is the Internet.

In another preferred embodiment the invention further comprises a security server coupled to the portal server or operating as a software module within the portal server. According to the embodiment the security server carries out an authentication process to confirm an identity of a user before receiving information from the user.

In some embodiments of the invention the portal server is adapted to receive user information from a third party server or web site. Additionally in some embodiments the portal server is further adapted to provide user maturity score and user profiles to the third party server or web site. Yet further in some embodiments the advertising server is further adapted to provide advertisements to the third party server for display to a particular user based at least in part on a maturity score or user profile provided by the portal server.

According to a preferred embodiment of the invention upon notification from the third party server that a user has requested information pertaining to a particular product or class of products the portal server selects from a plurality of users known or suspected to have such information said selection based at least in part on available user maturity scores and user profiles pertaining to the plurality of users known or suspected to have such information.

In a preferred embodiment of the invention an e commerce system comprising a portal server executing on a digital computer and coupled to a digital packet network and an analysis software executing on the server system or executing on another digital computer and adapted to communicate with the server across the digital packet network is disclosed. According to the embodiment the portal server is adapted to receive information from a user via the digital packet network said information including at least a plurality of data elements pertaining to products owned used or sought by the user. Additionally the received information is made available to the analysis software and the analysis software computes a maturity score for the user based at least in part on the received information provided to the analysis software said maturity score further being provided to the portal server. Finally the portal server uses at least a maturity score to order a selection of information to be provided to the user and at least some of the received information is made available to a plurality of external systems based at least in part on privacy settings established by or for the particular user.

A preferred embodiment of the invention illustrated in provides a web based application platform that sits between consumers and retailers. Such a system may include a portal server and an ad server . The portal server passes an identifier to the consumer client which may be a browser operating on a personal computer a mobile phone a personal digital assistant or any other Internet connected device or more generally any user interface device or application capable of connecting via the Internet or another network to a platform operating according to the invention . According to a preferred embodiment consumers are identified through use of cookies or other identifier technologies stored on consumer client as is well known in the art although in other embodiments consumers are identified using login credentials biometrics pass phrases or other general or device specific verification methods common in the art it should be appreciated that any method of identifying a user at least sufficiently to associate the user with previously stored profile data may be used without departing from the scope of the invention. Once a user accessing a system of the invention via consumer client is identified portal server collects data to build or expand if a profile already exists for a specific user a dynamic consumer profile . The invention may include an analysis module and a security module . In various embodiments these modules can reside within either the portal server or the ad server or they may reside separately. The portal server also receives and stores feedback from consumer client and builds a database of client details and preferences product reviews and survey data. An embodiment of the invention stores and lists information on what specific items users purchased prices they paid which retailers they did business with as well as storing customer feedback and review data. The portal server in various embodiments identifies third party sites that consumer clients interact with. In an embodiment analysis module identifies specific tags associated with consumer profile and communicates with ad server to deliver deeply targeted advertisements that match specific characteristics associated with consumer profile . These can be delivered in some embodiments directly to third party sites users are currently visiting or in various embodiments can send targeted advertisements directly to consumer client or indirectly through ad placements in social network platforms and various sites that a consumer frequents.

Retailer client can design product offers around detailed consumer profiles and also can learn how to improve product quality and marketing effectiveness based on detailed customer review data accessible from portal server . An embodiment allows retailer clients to tag specific ads residing for example within ad server with specific consumer profile characteristics. In an embodiment these deeply targeted ads can be delivered to third party websites . In various embodiments the ad server can access these third party sites by use of a custom code or specialized cookie to identify consumer client and deliver advertisements without exposing consumer profile details to third party site . In an embodiment a user using consumer client visits a third party site is identified by a central cookie and a relevant deep profile ad is delivered to consumer client . In an embodiment third party site has no knowledge of what specific ads are delivered to any given user keeping consumer clients anonymous on that end. In various embodiments the system allows a retailer client who placed an advertisement to know exactly where the advertisement was placed and for which instance of consumer client that is for which end user . Embodiments of the invention also track consumer client s response to advertisements. For example did a user click through the advertisement If so how far did a user go in playing video or clicking to deeper levels within the targeted advertisement Did the targeted consumer client request more information or access detailed product reviews from portal server Another embodiment allows consumer client to respond with specific customizable options like not interested or want to know more or send more information for example. Retailer clients are able to measure effectiveness of individual ads and to follow up with prospective customers if they so desire and consumer client profile allows for that function. In an embodiment retailer client may contact consumer client directly when an associated consumer shows an interest in a deeply targeted ad if the consumer client has agreed to this option in constructing his profile. This contact could be made by e mail direct mail telephone or other various methods available according to the art.

Consumer client can access detailed product reviews and comparison tools from portal server when researching potential purchases in various embodiments. A search for product reviews automatically updates consumer profile and in an embodiment triggers ad server to deliver deeply targeted advertisements on the web page being viewed. Ad server in some embodiments also stores information for later delivery as consumer client visits other third party sites or interacts in his social network pages.

Retailer client can also utilize the platform in various embodiments for customer service interaction. Customers can be notified when basic warranties are due to expire and extended warranties can be offered. Product reviews and feedback information on client retailers products can be accessed and analyzed by retailer clients. Information on recalls or solicitations for upgrades can be easily stored and disseminated. The platform provides a forum to facilitate long term communication with customers who are consumer clients .

An embodiment of the invention includes a security module to encrypt and protect data from third party sources. In some embodiments security module is part of an application server while in others security module may be a stand alone component. In an embodiment the platform allows consumer client to choose certain levels of security. For example a user may opt to have data encrypted with a platform key and UUID or in addition may opt to add a user password.

In various embodiments event data pertaining to a user such as noting that the user visited a particular web site downloaded music watched a video or engaged in gaming activities on consumer client device is used to enrich dynamic consumer profile . An example of one such embodiment would be to collect data on music movie and other entertainment preferences as consumer client device plays or downloads this being the event in this example various entertainments to the device . In an embodiment analysis module identifies an ad residing on ad server intended for targeting consumer profiles tagged with a preference for a particular genre of music for example offering concert tickets XXXXXX. In such a way only consumer clients with a known preference for a particular band or music style would be targeted by the ad server .

An embodiment of the invention includes collection of certain location data by the portal server to dynamically update the consumer profile . In an embodiment the consumer client device is equipped with a location module . The portal server is apprised of the various geographic locations where an enrolled and identified consumer client device is being used. In an embodiment the analysis module matches tags on the consumer profile indicating that the consumer has a preference for Italian food based on previous purchases tracked by the system and or consumer input to the profile with ads tagged with geographic location data designed to target such consumers. In an embodiment the ad server can now send a deeply targeted ad for an Italian restaurant from a retailer client that resides in the general location of the consumer client device directly to that device. In another embodiment the invention knows that the consumer client prefers Italian food and knows the geographic area he frequents and sends deeply targeted ads by way of the ad server to the consumer client s social networking sites favorite third party sites or directly by email or regular mail. An embodiment of the invention would allow deeply targeted delivery of such ads to enrolled clients traveling to new areas. Since the portal server is informed of the client s current location automatically and knows the clients preferences in the dynamic consumer profile the analysis module can compare with retailer client data residing in the ad server to deliver deeply targeted ads to the traveling consumer client s device for products and services she may be interested in consuming in her current geographical location.

An embodiment of the invention includes a security module to protect location event data and other profile data from being independently used or accessed by third party networks. In some embodiments the security module is part of the application server and in others may be a stand alone component.

Data on what products and services consumers purchase and use is stored and continually updated. Feedback from these same consumers about the products and services they purchase and use is collected and updated. Products that either retailers or consumers have for sale or open to offer are also filed in a data base. Links to detailed information on products and services are also kept updated. These four categories and are maintained and filed under the heading of product and services details and receive input from both the consumer network and the company network .

The consumer profile is a dynamic data base built over time by active consumer participation and also passively by tracking purchases contacts social networks event and location triggers and additional information in various embodiments. This data base is kept current and enriched continually as the consumer client navigates within his consumer network .

Company details are also dynamic and built from direct company input as well as over time passively from actions within the company network product and sales data warranty information customer feedback and interaction ad profile data and other data in various embodiments. Companies determine desired consumer profile attributes for the specific products and services they offer in order to produce the deep profile ads for delivery to specific consumers. In an embodiment of the invention the consumer profile data base is accessible in some form so companies can tailor their marketing campaigns to certain demographic or behavioral characteristics by producing specific deep profile ads . Data is collected in an ads logs and feedback file that in various embodiments can facilitate monetization and assess effectiveness of various advertising campaigns. For example click through rates actual sales requests for more information or for product comparison tools would be logged here in addition to data showing specific consumer profiles that were targeted and had actual deep profile ads delivered.

Embodiments of the invention also allow for consumer clients to list items they want to buy and thus to solicit sellers from other consumer clients in a network. Consumer client prospects in some embodiments are notified in one or more ways based on their individual consumer profile characteristics that might indicate an interest in a certain product category or who have purchased or reviewed products in that category. In an embodiment analysis module matches the consumer profile characteristics with the product category from willing sellers and consumer listings . The security module protects individual profile information and guards the identity of individuals based on client preferences in various embodiments. In an embodiment the security module also protects financial information disclosed in the transaction server by various methods common in the art.

Active consumer input begins when the client enrolls in the program. In various embodiments basic information is obtained such as client demographics client likes and dislikes professional interests leisure activities and hobbies products they have and use and products they desire. In an embodiment consumer client is regularly queried for additional bits of up to date information. This consumer input might be obtained by regularly sending short polls by email and incentivizing clients to respond by enhancing their maturity score and thus for example entitling them to discounts or rewards. An example of such a query would be a short questionnaire on what type of mobile phone or PDA a client uses. Do they like it Do they plan to upgrade If so to what brand or model Do they have a mobile broadband plan Are they happy with their carrier Do they get dropped calls And so on. In order to ascertain that certain data is current an embodiment of the invention periodically questions consumer client with short surveys to prompt the corresponding client to verify if information is current or to change outdated information. In various embodiments consumer client also can select security settings options to include location data and register mobile devices options to receive direct solicitations form retailer clients etc. In an embodiment consumer client can access system to actively update information and settings in the consumer profile at any time.

Embodiments of the invention also provide for passively updating the consumer profile . As the consumer client goes about his normal networking various embodiments identify social professional and blogging network sites frequented by a consumer and inputs this information into the corresponding consumer profile . Examples of such sites are Facebook MySpace Linkedin Twitter Google Buzz etc. An embodiment of the invention allows placement of deeply targeted ads intended for a specific consumer client on pages of sites frequented by that client. An embodiment similarly identifies search engine queries conducted by and Internet sites visited by a given consumer and updates consumer profile dynamically as to the corresponding consumer s interests and networks indicated thereby. Another embodiment identifies other enrolled consumer clients within social networks . An embodiment solicits non enrolled friends or followers in a consumer client s social network and may offer reward or loyalty points or improved maturity scores for personal references from consumer client . For example in an embodiment consumer profile receives a higher maturity score as more individuals within the corresponding client s social networks themselves become members and use consumer clients . Various embodiments include applications that interface directly with social networking sites . Similarly consumer client contacts such as voice e mail or instant messaging contacts could be solicited for enrollment and rewards offered as the consumer client s enrolled network grows. In an embodiment the consumer client can adjust settings or opt out of certain data mining functions at any time.

An embodiment of the invention includes location data that is updated passively as consumer client uses a registered device in various geographic locations. Consumer profile is updated dynamically so that deeply targeted ads can be delivered based on either current location or locations frequented by a consumer using consumer client .

In an embodiment any online transactions by a consumer client trigger collection of new real time data delivery to update the corresponding consumer profile . Information on purchases such as specific items purchased price paid retailer information etc are automatically collected. This information becomes a part of consumer profile . In an embodiment such new information can trigger requests for a detailed product review or query of a particular product or asking for new consumer input at a later time or times which further enriches consumer profile . Participation of consumers in selling or auction platforms such as Ebay or Amazon is noted by various embodiments and products listed or purchased and transactions made on such platforms by a client trigger automatic updates to consumer profile . The various companies a client does business with are recorded as part of consumer profile making it possible for retailer clients to easily identify and solicit feedback from consumer clients .

Embodiments of the invention that include an image analyzer update consumer profile as submitted images are identified. Other embodiments record requests for product reviews and comparison tools in consumer profile .

Various event data may in some embodiments trigger a consumer profile update. For example a consumer s response to certain ads may trigger an update to consumer profile in various embodiments. When a client clicks through an ad potential interest in that product or service is noted in the corresponding consumer client profile . In some embodiments a system according to the invention detects if a video ad was played through or if an ad was clicked through sometimes noting various levels of click through and updates consumer client profile appropriately. The clicking of the ad is considered an event resulting in new data collected in consumer profile . A registered consumer client device such as a set top box or an iPad may be used regularly at certain times for certain program favorites. In this example both the time of day a device is used and the program category or genre of music played are noted and consumer profile is updated. As an example a consumer client with a registered device routinely watches Fox Business network program at 4 PM Monday through Friday. Consumer profile is updated with data that tags both the interest in business programming and the time of day the client is routinely using the device. This data within consumer profile may be matched with an appropriate targeted ad from a retailer client that is targeting consumers with an interest in business or finance.

An embodiment of the invention solicits feedback from consumers using consumer client on all products and services purchased. This feedback can be in the form of simple queries or a more detailed product review . Various embodiments provide incentives for consumer clients who take the time to do detailed product reviews . At certain time intervals new queries are sent to reviewers to allow for updates so consumer reviews can be dynamically updated over the lifecycle of the product. For example a consumer buys an iPod Touch and gives a product review using consumer client . The user is queried again in three months to update previously supplied feedback and then repeatedly queried every six months until the user indicates the product is no longer used. In an embodiment these queries can be consolidated and sent as a simple survey to cover multiple product reviews.

In an embodiment every user of the platform gets a maturity score that is updated continually based on changes made in consumer profile . This may include both consumer clients and retailer clients . Maturity scores are used to calculate impact of a user s profile and of any feedback provided by the user. In general a higher maturity score indicates a richer and more up to date consumer profile that provides superior data for the accurate placement of deeply targeted ads and more trusted product reviews. In various embodiments the maturity score is calculated based on the completeness of the client profile and the quantity of feedback . Consumer clients who answer surveys and queries in a timely manner boost their maturity score each time the consumer profile is updated. Clients who take the time to provide detailed product reviews in various embodiments receive extra maturity points for quality of their feedback. Another embodiment considers the balance of feedback given by a consumer client in calculating a maturity score . For example a client who reports balanced criticisms would receive a higher score than a client who only gives negative feedback. Perhaps such a client is only motivated to take the time for a review when he is upset with a product and has a vindictive personality. Such a review would be less trusted and reflected by a lower maturity score . Clients also may receive maturity points each time they provide recurring feedback in providing timely answers to periodic queries that follow up product reviews over time.

Embodiments of the invention interact with consumer clients social networks and give maturity points based on various attributes of these networks. Examples of such attributes in an embodiment would be the number of friends or followers mean age of friends or followers or general demographic information on the pool of friends or followers . Such information may grant a higher maturity score for clients whose social networking peers average 35 years of age versus 18 years. Another example would give a higher maturity score for a social network with a higher average educational demographic attribute. An embodiment gives a maturity score to an actual social network based on total number of participants demographics activity levels and number of clients within the network.

An embodiment of the invention also considers the number of participating consumer clients those enrolled in the system within a given consumer client s individual social network potentially also taking into account the overall maturity scores of those consumer clients within social network group . Various embodiments recognize the influences a consumer client may have within her social network and gives maturity points for solicitations to enroll others and additional points for each individual who completes enrollment as a consumer client in the system.

Embodiments of the invention dynamically update maturity score as both active and passive updates are made to consumer profile . For example in an embodiment utilizing a locator module each time new device location data is added to consumer profile the maturity score is incrementally raised. An embodiment allowing consumer profiles to be updated by search engine queries provides passive input that is reflected by an ever increasing maturity score . This is one incentive for consumer clients to elect to allow various data mining functions. In various embodiments discounts or privileges may be granted at certain milestones as a maturity score rises.

In another preferred embodiment users are allowed to control the degree of privacy maintained by portal server and other components of the system according to the invention. Specifically users are permitted to specify that specific information about them is maintained as private allowing only a maturity score to be viewed or used by third parties. Users may also according to the invention be allowed to specify a plurality of individuals organizations companies or groups to which they are willing to provide more detailed information. In various embodiments users are allowed to identify specific types of information for example phone numbers addresses preferences products owned or desired demographic segments recent activities and the like and to specify what level of privacy is to be maintained by portal server or other elements of the invention for each specific type or even for each specific piece of information as illustrated for example by providing different privacy settings for a mobile phone used socially and a business phone used only professionally . It will be appreciated by one having ordinary skill in the art that there are many ways in which a system according to the invention could physically carry out this privacy function. For example an application programming interface API according to the invention could allow for a third party online service to provide to portal server a plurality of sets of electing user id information type id information instance id other user or group id and a privacy setting describing the privacy to be maintained when disclosing information about the electing user to the other user or group concerning a particular information instance or information type.

In another embodiment portal server may directly offer a configuration page to end users that allows them among other things to specify their privacy settings in any desired level of detail. What is important is that portal server is thus enabled to act as a trusted middleman or information intermediary and thus to make it possible for consumers to enjoy greater value from online services without having to sacrifice their privacy. That is the ability of an online service operating according to the invention to store information about millions of users product holdings product experiences future product purchase plans and online shopping behavior to name a small set of the possible types of information handled by portal server as discussed above and to use this information to computer maturity scores and profiles for individuals and groups from among the millions of consumers and to use these scores and profiles to provide valuable information to the same and other users while protecting the personal information of each of the millions of users according to rules established by each of the users of course with the optional provision of default settings so that users who wish to bypass setting security rules are still protected in a default fashion additionally preconfigured security bundles may be provided according to the invention to facilitate users rapidly setting up typical security profiles is a principal object and advantage of the present invention.

According to the invention information pertaining to desired or default privacy settings for users may be stored as part of user personal profiles or it may be stored as a separate database of table of data or as part of another database for instance a configuration database . It will be appreciated that the precise location of storage of such data is not critical to the inventive concept which is that a single trusted intermediary is able according to the invention to aggregate private information about many products ownership and usage in order to facilitate the exchange of information among users without any product manufacturer or seller having access to any user data beyond what each user allows. Such an arrangement is valuable to users and merchants such as manufacturers and vendors alike as it encourages a level of information exchange and aggregation which normally would not take place in an untrusted environment and thereby allows users to better evaluate or to find desired products and services by using input from many other users thus also driving more sales for manufacturers at least for products that are valued by users .

All of the embodiments outlined in this disclosure are exemplary in nature and should not be construed as limitations of the invention except as claimed below.

