---

title: Determining influencers
abstract: The present disclosure relates generally to determining influencers in a Web 2.0 environment. More specifically, in some implementations, an influence of an electronically-accessed content on an involvement between an accessor and a third party is determined. In further implementations, a provider of the electronically accessed content is rewarded based on the assessed influence.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08290973&OS=08290973&RS=08290973
owner: The Invention Science Fund I, LLC
number: 08290973
owner_city: Bellevue
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100303
---
The present application is related to and claims the benefit of the earliest available effective filing date s from the following listed application s the Related Applications e.g. claims earliest available priority dates for other than provisional patent applications or claims benefits under 35 USC 119 e for provisional patent applications for any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Related Application s 

For purposes of the United States Patent and Trademark Office USPTO extra statutory requirements described more fully below the present application constitutes 

1. A continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 799 460 entitled REWARDING INFLUENCERS naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Alexander G. Gounares W. Daniel Hillis Royce A. Levien Mark A. Malamud Craig J. Mundie Christopher D. Payne Richard F. Rashid Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed 30 Apr. 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

2. A continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 811 349 entitled REWARDING INFLUENCERS naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Alexander G. Gounares W. Daniel Hillis Royce A. Levien Mark A. Malamud Craig J. Mundie Christopher D. Payne Richard F. Rashid Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed 7 Jun. 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

3. A continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 799 461 entitled DETERMINING INFLUENCERS naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Alexander G. Gounares W. Daniel Hillis Royce A. Levien Mark A. Malamud Craig J. Mundie Christopher D. Payne Richard F. Rashid Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed 30 Apr. 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

4. A continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 811 402 entitled DETERMINING INFLUENCERS naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Alexander G. Gounares W. Daniel Hillis Royce A. Levien Mark A. Malamud Craig J. Mundie Christopher D. Payne Richard F. Rashid Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed 8 Jun. 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

5. A continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 824 551 entitled REPORTING INFLUENCE ON A PERSON BY NETWORK AVAILABLE CONTENT filed 29 Jun. 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

6. A continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 824 582 entitled COLLECTING INFLUENCE INFORMATION naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Alexander G. Gounares W. Daniel Hillis Royce A. Levien Mark A. Malamud Craig J. Mundie Christopher D. Payne Richard F. Rashid Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed 29 Jun. 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

7. A continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 906 537 entitled COLLECTING INFLUENCE INFORMATION naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Alexander G. Gounares W. Daniel Hillis Royce A. Levien Mark A. Malamud Craig J. Mundie Christopher D. Payne Richard F. Rashid Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed 1 Oct. 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

8. A continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 824 580 entitled DETERMINING AN INFLUENCE ON A PERSON BY WEB PAGES naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Alexander G. Gounares W. Daniel Hillis Royce A. Levien Mark A. Malamud Craig J. Mundie Christopher D. Payne Richard F. Rashid Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed 29 Jun. 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

9. A continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 881 800 entitled REWARDING INDEPENDENT INFLUENCERS naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Alexander G. Gounares W. Daniel Hillis Royce A. Levien Mark A. Malamud Craig J. Mundie Christopher D. Payne Richard F. Rashid Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed 27 Jul. 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

10. A continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 906 780 entitled REWARDING INDEPENDENT INFLUENCERS naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Alexander G. Gounares W. Daniel Hillis Royce A. Levien Mark A. Malamud Craig J. Mundie Christopher D. Payne Richard F. Rashid Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed 2 Oct. 2007 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

11. A continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 290 310 entitled REWARDING INFLUENCERS naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Alexander G. Gounares W. Daniel Hillis Royce A. Levien Mark A. Malamud Craig J. Mundie Christopher D. Payne Richard F. Rashid Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed 28 Oct. 2008 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

12. A continuation in part application of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 290 675 entitled REWARDING INFLUENCERS naming Gary W. Flake William H. Gates III Alexander G. Gounares W. Daniel Hillis Royce A. Levien Mark A. Malamud Craig J. Mundie Christopher D. Payne Richard F. Rashid Clarence T. Tegreene Charles Whitmer and Lowell L. Wood Jr. as inventors filed 31 Oct. 2008 which is currently co pending or is an application of which a currently co pending application is entitled to the benefit of the filing date.

The United States Patent and Trademark Office USPTO has published a notice to the effect that the USPTO s computer programs require that patent applicants both reference a serial number and indicate whether an application is a continuation or continuation in part. Stephen G. Kunin Benefit of Prior Filed Application USPTO Electronic Official Gazette Mar. 18 2003. The present applicant entity has provided a specific reference to the application s from which priority is being claimed as recited by statute. Applicant entity understands that the statute is unambiguous in its specific reference language and does not require either a serial number or any characterization such as continuation or continuation in part. Notwithstanding the foregoing applicant entity understands that the USPTO s computer programs have certain data entry requirements and hence applicant entity is designating the present application as a continuation in part of its parent applications but expressly points out that such designations are not to be construed in any way as any type of commentary and or admission as to whether or not the present application contains any new matter in addition to the matter of its parent application s .

All subject matter of the Related Applications and of any and all parent grandparent great grandparent etc. applications of the Related Applications is incorporated herein by reference to the extent such subject matter is not inconsistent herewith.

The present disclosure relates generally to determining influencers in a Web 2.0 environment. More specifically in some implementations an influence of an electronically accessed content on an involvement between an accessor and a third party is determined. In further implementations a provider of the electronically accessed content may be rewarded based on the determined influence.

As the communication network commonly known as the Web or Internet continues to evolve contemporary web development efforts are being directed toward improved Web based applications that improve user interaction functionality and utility. These development efforts widely referred to as Web 2.0 are leading to a surge of innovation and are resulting in a rapid evolution of the means through which electronic content is being provided and accessed on the Web. While desirable results are being achieved there remains a need to incentivize providers of electronically accessed content.

The present disclosure relates generally to determining influencers and more specifically to determining an influence of an electronically accessed content on an involvement between an accessor and a third party. In some implementations the determination of the influence may be performed in a Web 2.0 environment and a provider of the electronically accessed content may be rewarded based on the determined influence.

Techniques for determining influencers and more specifically to determining an influence of an electronically accessed content on an involvement between an accessor and a third party are disclosed. It will be appreciated that many specific details of certain implementations are set forth in the following description and in the accompanying figures to provide a thorough understanding of such implementations. One skilled in the art will understand from the teachings of the present disclosure however that the present disclosure may have other possible implementations and that such other implementations may be practiced with without some of the details set forth in the following description.

Exemplary environments in which various implementations in accordance with the present disclosure may be implemented are described in this section with reference to . It will be appreciated however that the following description of exemplary environments is not exhaustive of all possible environments in which the teachings of the present disclosure may be implemented.

For example illustrates an exemplary system that includes a computing device which may be included in an electronic device that also includes a device functional element . For example the electronic device may include any item having electrical and or electronic components playing a role in a functionality of the item such as a limited resource computing device an electronic pen a handheld electronic writing device a digital camera a scanner an ultrasound device an x ray machine a non invasive imaging device a cell phone a printer a refrigerator a car and an airplane. The thin computing device includes a processing unit a system memory and a system bus that couples various system components including the system memory to the processing unit . The system bus may be any of several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus and a local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The system memory includes read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM . A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between sub components within the thin computing device such as during start up is stored in the ROM . A number of program modules may be stored in the ROM and or RAM including an operating system one or more application programs other program modules and program data .

A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a number of switches and buttons illustrated as hardware buttons connected to the system via a suitable interface . Input devices may further include a touch sensitive display screen with suitable input detection circuitry . The output circuitry of the touch sensitive display is connected to the system bus via a video driver . Other input devices may include a microphone connected through a suitable audio interface and a physical hardware keyboard not shown . In addition to the display the computing device may include other peripheral output devices such as at least one speaker .

Other external input or output devices such as a joystick game pad satellite dish scanner or the like may be connected to the processing unit through a USB port and USB port interface to the system bus . Alternatively the other external input and output devices may be connected by other interfaces such as a parallel port game port or other port. The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting to a flash card memory not shown through an appropriate connection port not shown . The computing device may further include or be capable of connecting with a network through a network port and network interface and wireless port and corresponding wireless interface may be provided to facilitate communication with other peripheral devices including other computers printers and so on not shown . It will be appreciated that the various components and connections shown are exemplary and other components and means of establishing communications links may be used.

The computing device may be primarily designed to include a user interface. The user interface may include a character a key based and or another user data input via the touch sensitive display . The user interface may include using a stylus not shown . Moreover the user interface is not limited to an actual touch sensitive panel arranged for directly receiving input but may alternatively or in addition respond to another input device such as the microphone . For example spoken words may be received at the microphone and recognized. Alternatively the computing device may be designed to include a user interface having a physical keyboard not shown .

The device functional elements are typically application specific and related to a function of the electronic device and are coupled with the system bus through an interface not shown . The functional elements may typically perform a single well defined task with little or no user configuration or setup such as a refrigerator keeping food cold a cell phone connecting with an appropriate tower and transceiving voice or data information and a camera capturing and saving an image.

The computing system environment typically includes a variety of computer readable media products. Computer readable media may include any media that can be accessed by the computing device and include both volatile and nonvolatile media removable and non removable media. By way of example and not of limitation computer readable media may include computer storage media and communications media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the computing device . In a further embodiment a computer storage media may include a group of computer storage media devices. In another embodiment a computer storage media may include an information store. In another embodiment an information store may include a quantum memory a photonic quantum memory and or atomic quantum memory. Combinations of any of the above may also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Communications media may typically embody computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and include any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communications media include wired media such as a wired network and a direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF optical and infrared media.

The system memory includes computer storage media in the form of volatile and nonvolatile memory such as ROM and RAM . A RAM may include at least one of a DRAM an EDO DRAM a SDRAM a RDRAM a VRAM and or a DDR DRAM. A basic input output system BIOS containing the basic routines that help to transfer information between elements within the computing device such as during start up is typically stored in ROM . RAM typically contains data and program modules that are immediately accessible to or presently being operated on by processing unit . By way of example and not limitation illustrates an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Often the operating system offers services to applications programs by way of one or more application programming interfaces APIs not shown . Because the operating system incorporates these services developers of applications programs need not redevelop code to use the services. Examples of APIs provided by operating systems such as Microsoft s WINDOWS are well known in the art.

The computing device may also include other removable non removable volatile nonvolatile computer storage media products. By way of example only illustrates a non removable non volatile memory interface hard disk interface that reads from and writes for example to non removable non volatile magnetic media. also illustrates a removable non volatile memory interface that for example is coupled to a magnetic disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile magnetic disk and or is coupled to an optical disk drive that reads from and writes to a removable non volatile optical disk such as a CD ROM. Other removable nonremovable volatile non volatile computer storage media that can be used in the exemplary operating environment include but are not limited to magnetic tape cassettes memory cards flash memory cards DVDs digital video tape solid state RAM and solid state ROM. The hard disk drive is typically connected to the system bus through a non removable memory interface such as the interface and magnetic disk drive and optical disk drive are typically connected to the system bus by a removable non volatile memory interface such as interface .

The drives and their associated computer storage media discussed above and illustrated in provide storage of computer readable instructions data structures program modules and other data for the computing device . In for example hard disk drive is illustrated as storing an operating system application programs other program modules and program data . Note that these components can either be the same as or different from the operating system application programs other program modules and program data . The operating system application programs other program modules and program data are given different numbers here to illustrate that at a minimum they are different copies. A user may enter commands and information into the computing device through input devices such as a microphone keyboard and pointing device commonly referred to as a mouse trackball or touch pad. Other input devices not shown may include a joystick game pad satellite dish and scanner. These and other input devices are often connected to the processing unit through a user input interface that is coupled to the system bus but may be connected by other interface and bus structures such as a parallel port game port or a universal serial bus USB . A monitor or other type of display device is also connected to the system bus via an interface such as a video interface . In addition to the monitor computers may also include other peripheral output devices such as speakers and printer which may be connected through an output peripheral interface .

The computing system environment may operate in a networked environment using logical connections to one or more remote computers such as a remote computer . The remote computer may be a personal computer a server a router a network PC a peer device or other common network node and typically includes many or all of the elements described above relative to the computing device although only a memory storage device has been illustrated in . The logical connections depicted in include a local area network LAN and a wide area network WAN but may also include other networks such as a personal area network PAN not shown . Such networking environments are commonplace in offices enterprise wide computer networks intranets and the Internet.

When used in a LAN networking environment the computing system environment is connected to the LAN through a network interface or adapter . When used in a WAN networking environment the computing device typically includes a modem or other means for establishing communications over the WAN such as the Internet. The modem which may be internal or external may be connected to the system bus via the user input interface or via another appropriate mechanism. In a networked environment program modules depicted relative to the computing device or portions thereof may be stored in a remote memory storage device. By way of example and not limitation illustrates remote application programs as residing on computer storage medium . It will be appreciated that the network connections shown are exemplary and other means of establishing communications link between the computers may be used.

In a configuration the server typically includes at least one processing unit and system memory . System memory typically includes operating system platform and one or more program modules running on operating system. In addition to the program modules a server application may also be running on the operating system. The server application may be operable to deliver electronic content and or files to applications via a protocol and may include and or interact with other computing devices application servers applications and application interfaces APIs residing in other applications. For example the server application may include a Web server operable to deliver Web pages and or electronic content to Web browser applications via HTTP protocols.

The server may have additional features or functionality. For example server may also include additional data storage devices removable and or non removable as illustrated in by removable storage and non removable storage . System memory removable storage and non removable storage are all examples of computer storage media. The server may include input device s and output device s . The server also contains communication connections that allow the device to communicate with and perform a service associated with a network including communicating with other servers and or with other computing device illustrated as other computing device s . Communication connections are one example of communication media.

In the description that follows certain embodiments may be described with reference to acts and symbolic representations of operations that are performed by one or more computing devices such as the computing device of . As such it will be understood that such acts and operations which are at times referred to as being computer executed include the manipulation by the processing unit of the computer of electrical signals representing data in a structured form. This manipulation transforms the data or maintains them at locations in the memory system of the computer which reconfigures or otherwise alters the operation of the computer in a manner well understood by those skilled in the art. The data structures in which data is maintained are physical locations of the memory that have particular properties defined by the format of the data. However while an embodiment is being described in the foregoing context it is not meant to be limiting as those of skill in the art will appreciate that the acts and operations described hereinafter may also be implemented in hardware.

Embodiments may be implemented with numerous other general purpose or special purpose computing devices and computing system environments or configurations. Examples of well known computing systems environments and configurations that may be suitable for use with an embodiment include but are not limited to personal computers handheld or laptop devices personal digital assistants multiprocessor systems microprocessor based systems set top boxes programmable consumer electronics network minicomputers server computers game server computers web server computers mainframe computers and distributed computing environments that include any of the above systems or devices.

Embodiments may be described in a general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. An embodiment may also be practiced in a distributed computing environment where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

The exemplary environment may also include one or more servers illustrated as a content server . In an embodiment the content server is operable to provide electronic content illustrated as eContent and or eContent to one or more client machines. In another embodiment the content server includes the server illustrated in . In a further embodiment the content server s includes a node in P2P and or a C2C network. The node may include the thin computing device illustrated in and or the computing device illustrated in . The exemplary environment may also include one or more third party sites illustrated as a third party site . The third party site may include a merchant site such as amazon.com for books a manufacturer site such as subaru.com for automobiles a religious institution such as catholic.org and or hinduism.com and or a political site such as rnc.org and or democrats.org. The exemplary environment may also include one or more search engine sites illustrated as a search engine site . The search engine site may include a general search engine site such as google.com and or live.com. In another embodiment the search engine site may include a topical search site such as HONMedhunt and or FindLaw.com.

The exemplary environment may also include an influence determinator machine an intermediary machine and or a page tag information processor . Each of these machines may be operable to receive data and or information gathered by at least one of the client machine the content server the third party site and or the network intermediary and to produce an output usable in assessing an influence on a person using the client machine by a content of the content server.

As further shown in one or more components of the network environment may cooperatively provide an electronic accessed content that may be accessed by the accessor or client machine . In some implementations the electronic accessed content may include one or more portions or components. For example in some implementations the electronic accessed content may include a mashup of similar or different portions or components or a plurality of mashups.

More specifically with continued reference to in some implementations the electronic accessed content may include one or more of the following components or types a content e.g. text audio visual video or other suitable content a widget e.g. clock weather monitor music provider news provider game entertainment provider story provider article provider stock market tracker etc. an external feed e.g. clock weather monitor music provider news provider game entertainment provider story provider article provider stock market tracker etc. a badge e.g. animal brand name musical group sports content humorous content entertainment content nationality content religious content affinity content affiliation content etc. a Rich Internet Application RIA e.g. virtual weather provider virtual experience provider news provider designer entertainment provider shopping facilitator analytical facilitator etc. an Application Programming Interface API e.g. file operations file references geometry and topology operations feature operations projects drawing and dimensional operations assembly operations user interfaces user preferences etc. a web service e.g. search service mapping service directions service spelling and grammar services etc. and a monitoring component e.g. tracking component access monitor registration component etc. . Of course in alternate implementations the electronic accessed content may include any other suitable components or content types.

The network environment further includes one or more Web 2.0 constructs which may be located or distributed on one or more components within the environment . For example in some implementations a Web 2.0 construct may be located on the network the accessor client machine the content server the third party site the network intermediary the search engine site the influence determinator machine or any other component of the network environment . As used herein the term Web 2.0 construct or machine implemented Web 2.0 construct may include a wide variety of constructs implemented in software hardware firmware or combinations thereof. For example a Web 2.0 construct may include a web based application a web service an asynchronous application an API an RIA application an Ajax Asynchronous JavaScript and XML Extensible Markup Language application a Flex application a Flash application a Web 2.0 engine or a mashup that includes one or more of the afore mentioned constructs.

It should be appreciated that the exemplary systems and environments described above with reference to are merely illustrative of a few of the many possible systems and environments in which the teachings of the present disclosure may be implemented and that the teachings herein are not limited to the particular systems and environments described above. For example additional exemplary systems and environments in accordance with the teachings of the present disclosure are described below with respect to .

Exemplary processes for determining influencers in accordance with the teachings of the present disclosure are described below with reference to . It will be appreciated however that the following description of exemplary processes is not exhaustive of all possible processes in accordance with the teachings of the present disclosure.

To provide an improved understanding of various aspects described below a few representative embodiments of methods in accordance with the present disclosure will be described. For example consider a simple scenario involving a consumer that is pondering whether to purchase a gadget. There are several different competing suppliers from which the consumer may purchase different models of the gadget. During a pre purchase shopping period the consumer visits several different websites accessing electronic content on each website that discusses various aspects of the different models available from the different competing suppliers. Among the several factors involved in the consumer s decision e.g. cost performance size weight appearance reputation etc. there may be a particular factor that is of relatively higher importance to this particular consumer. Assume for the purpose of this scenario that the particular factor that is most important to this consumer is the size of the gadget. During the consumer s shopping period which may take place over an extended period of time e.g. days weeks months etc. one particular site may provide electronic content that provides a useful comparison of the various sizes of the different models of the gadget that are available from the various different suppliers e.g. sizeeasy.com compelling or enabling the consumer to make a decision. The consumer may then purchase a particular model of the gadget from a particular supplier.

Embodiments of processes and systems in accordance with the teachings of the present disclosure may advantageously determine an influence of one or more of the various electronic contents accessed by the consumer on the consumer s ultimate decision to purchase a particular product from a particular supplier. In the representative scenario described above the site that provided the comparison of the various sizes of the different models of the gadget was the most influential on this particular consumer s purchase decision. In at least some embodiments a process in accordance with the present disclosure may provide a way to associate the consumer s accessing of the various electronic content during the shopping period with the consumer s ultimate purchase decision including determining an influence of one or more of the various electronic contents on the consumer s purchase. In still other embodiments the provider of the most influential electronic content may receive a benefit such as from the supplier from whom the consumer purchased the gadget.

Various ways of associating the consumer s accessing of the various electronic content during the shopping period with the consumer s ultimate purchase decision have been conceived and are described more fully below. For example in at least some embodiments a process may analyze a consumer s behavior before and after accessing a site s electronic content and make assumptions about relative influence of the electronic content based on the analysis. In a particular embodiment for example an analysis may determine that the consumer made a purchase immediately e.g. within 48 hours after accessing an electronic content that recommended a product. In other embodiments an analysis may determine that the consumer terminated shopping activities after accessing an electronic content followed by a registration of a new product following a period of time e.g. days weeks months etc. .

The analysis of the consumer s behavior before accessing a site s electronic content and after visiting the site s electronic content may be performed in a variety of ways. For example in some embodiments the analysis may be performed by an entity that analyzes the consumer s behavior. In other embodiments a component e.g. software hardware firmware or combinations thereof may be provided on an electronic device of the consumer that analyzes the consumer s behavior. The component and or the entity may analyze publicly available information or privately available information or both to determine an influence of an electronic content on the consumer s purchase decision. For example in some embodiments analyzing the consumer s behavior may include an analysis of a consumer s internet browsing history cache history electronic mail history credit card history bank account history electronic notes and or other suitable publicly or privately available information. An analysis component may search through such information sources for strings key words phrases data or any other suitable indicia.

Although a process may analyze privately available information it will be appreciated that such privately available information need not be publicly revealed as a result of such analyses. For example in at least some embodiments although a process analyzes a consumer s privately available information the process need not record transmit or reveal such information to any other entities in order to determine an influence of one or more of the various electronic contents on the consumer s purchase. More specifically in at least some embodiments a process may reveal a final determination e.g. conclusion hypothesis etc. about an influence of an electronic content on the consumer s purchase without revealing any privately available information used in formulating the determination e.g. the accessed content from website x was the most influential in the consumer s decision to purchase the gadget from the supplier .

Of course a variety of other ways of associating the consumer s accessing of electronic content with the consumer s ultimate purchase decision may be conceived in accordance with the teachings of the present disclosure. In some embodiments the consumer may be queried as to the various websites visited and requested to provide direct input on the influence of such websites on the consumer s decision. For example consider another simple scenario in which a consumer visits several websites during the course of shopping for a service or product e.g. a camera . The consumer s browsing activity during a pre purchase period may be tracked and following a purchase the consumer may be presented with a list of the sites visited by the consumer and queried about the relative influence of the sites. For example the consumer may be presented with a list of thumbnails of sites visited during the pre purchase period and may be asked to rank them in order of influence e.g. here are the thumbnails of sites you visited which was most helpful to you . In some embodiments the consumer may be queried at the time of sale of a product or service via a supplier s or a third party s website. Alternately the query for user input may occur in a non online setting such as at a brick and mortar retail outlet or point of sale or other suitable non online procedure e.g. follow up mailing telephone poll etc. . In some embodiments the user may be presented with a multiple choice menu that enables the user to provide a ranking of the relative influence e.g. most positive positive neutral negative most negative etc. of each site visited. It will be appreciated that information on negative results may be of interest to product suppliers in order to provide improvements to products or services offered.

In yet another representative scenario a vendor or provider of a product or service may develop one or more various models for automated determination of an influence of an electronic content on a consumer s decision. In at least some implementations an influence determination component may be located on an electronic platform e.g. computer cell phone personal data assistant etc. that may perform the desired influence determinations.

For example in some embodiments a model for automated influence determination may include one or more classes of sites that contain electronic content that may be relevant to an accessor s decision to purchase or not to purchase a product or service. By analyzing an access history of the accessor an automated model may determine that a particular site or a particular electronic content was accessed by the accessor prior to the purchase and may assume a relative influence of the particular site or the particular electronic content based on a weighting formula or other suitable means. In some implementations for example it may be known or assumed that content from a first source e.g. a technical column in the New York Times is more influential e.g. based on relative numbers of readers polling data statistics etc. than content from a second source e.g. an advertisement on craigslist.com . It will be appreciated that in some implementations the accessor s history of accessing information may be obtained from information contained on the accessor s electronic device e.g. computer cell phone personal data assistant etc. or alternately may be received from the various sites visited by the accessor e.g. when visited by accessor number of times visited by accessor duration of visit s clicks made contents accessed etc. . An automated model may then apply logic to such information to determine the relative influence of the accessed content s on the accessor s decision.

In at least some implementations a supplier of an electronic platform e.g. computer cell phone personal data assistant etc. may include some type of logic or component into the electronic platform that is configured to perform the desired influence determinations. Alternately such influence determinations may reside within a supplier s site or that of a third party.

In another aspect the sites or electronic contents accessed by the accessor may leave data or information behind on the accessor s electronic device that is detectable by an analysis component to assist in the subsequent influence determination. For example in some implementations a packet of information e.g. a cookie may be stored on the accessor s electronic device that provides access information of interest in the influence determination e.g. when visited by accessor number of times visited by accessor duration of visit s clicks made contents accessed etc. . Alternately a signature of an accessed site may be left by an accessed site such as by particular numerical values e.g. unique size values dimensional values ratings capabilities etc. terms words phrases or other indicia contained within the information accessed by the accessor which may remain on the accessor s electronic device.

In a particular implementation an analysis component may determine an influence of a particular electronic content based on a discernable pattern over time. For example in some implementations an analysis component may assume that a most recently acquired electronic content was the most influential to a purchaser s decision. Alternately an analysis component may analyze an electronic document that was developed during the purchaser s shopping period and may search for patterns that indicate a relative influence of a particular electronic content or site e.g. differences in a note taking document before after visiting a site evolution of such a note taking document to determine where each piece comes from to determine influence determination of a first accessed site or content that caused the accessor to include the identity of the particular product purchased into the note taking document as being the most influential etc. .

Additional embodiments and aspects of processes and systems in accordance with the present disclosure will now be described with reference to the accompanying figures. For example is a flowchart of method of an influence determination method in accordance with at least some embodiments of the present disclosure. More specifically in this implementation the method includes receiving an access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at and receiving an involvement information indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at . In this implementation at least one of receiving the access information or receiving the involvement information includes receiving using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct at . In addition the method includes determining a determined influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at .

For example in some implementations receiving an access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at may include receiving data indicating that a web browser associated with a particular consumer has accessed a particular website for a particular duration of time or that a mobile device e.g. cellular telephone has requested a download of a particular podcast of information. In another representative example data may be received indicative of a consumer accessing a first product related content comparing a first brand of cameras Brand A to a second brand of cameras Brand B and also indicative of the consumer assessing a second product related content comparing the first and second brands of cameras Brand A and B the third party being a provider e.g. manufacturer wholesaler retailer advertiser etc. of either the Brand A camera or the Brand B camera.

Similarly in at least some implementations the receiving an involvement information indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include for example receiving data indicating that the above mentioned consumer conducted a transaction with a particular vendor of goods or services or that a user of the aforesaid cellular telephone conducted business with a broker. For example in some implementations receiving an involvement information indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include receiving data indicating that a web browser associated with a particular consumer has transacted a purchase from a product provider or that a mobile device e.g. cellular telephone has transacted a purchase from a service provider. In another representative example data may be received indicative of a consumer ordering a first product from a retailer e.g. Brand A cameras or receiving a purchase confirmation e.g. via a text message on a cellular telephone .

It will be appreciated that a wide variety of machine implemented Web 2.0 constructs may be used for at least one of receiving the access information or receiving the involvement information includes receiving using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct at including for example an Ajax Asynchronous JavaScript and XML Extensible Markup Language application an asynchronous application a Flash application a web service any other suitable Web 2.0 engine or content or construct or a mashup that includes one or more of the afore mentioned constructs.

It will be appreciated that the access information or the involvement information may take many suitable forms. For example such information may include at least one of a user input a keystroke a navigation command a mouse movement a caching information a session information and or a visit information and may include information associated with incidental to and or responsive to one or more of user mouse movements scrolling movements purchases operations visited Websites visited blogs page views page visits viewing time repeat visits page tags printing a content click stream search strings local search strings interactions scrolling menu activity corresponding related to browsing the Internet cut and paste print history browsing history email cookies user keystrokes logged keystrokes along with the window name into which they are typed email sent email received logged events logged timeline Website activity logged Websites visited application usage log of applications run documents opened saved documents files opened files viewed cut cut and paste scrolling navigating and setting a bookmark. In further implementations the access information may include data indicative of a computing system environment a local computing system interaction associated with the client side computing device a network interaction including bulk content downloaded to form a page a turning of visibility tags on and off and or an interactive environment.

As mentioned above in some implementations the determining a determined influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include determining whether the website accessed by the consumer using the browser was the primary reason the consumer purchased the good or service from the vendor or determining whether the cell phone user s eventual purchase was attributable to a podcast that was downloaded by the user.

It will be appreciated that determining a determined influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may occur in a variety of ways. For example in a method as shown in determining a determined influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include determining an influence of a product related electronic content on a purchase between a consumer and a product supplier based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at e.g. determining that a last accessed website that promoted a particular product was the most influential in the purchaser s decision to purchase the product . Similarly determining a determined influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include analyzing a first activity of the accessor prior to the accessing of the electronic accessed content analyzing a second activity of the accessor subsequent to the accessing of the electronic accessed content and correlating the analysis of the first activity with the analysis of the second activity at e.g. analyzing a first length of time spent accessing a first website analyzing a second length of time spent accessing a second website and correlating the first and second lengths of time .

In further embodiments determining a determined influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include determining a difference in size of an electronic document of the accessor prior to and subsequent to the accessing of the electronic accessed content and correlating the difference in size with an assumed influence at . For example in some embodiments a size of a note taking document related to an accessor s eventual purchase may be reviewed after the accessor has accessed a first website and a second website and the relative growth of the note taking document after each of the first and second websites may be assumed to be directly proportional to the influence of each website respectively.

In further embodiments determining a determined influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include correlating an assumed influence of the electronic accessed content with an initial instance of a product identity in an information residing on an electronic device of the accessor at . For example in some embodiments an electronic content containing a first mention or appearance of a product eventually purchased by an accessor may be assumed to be the most influential in the accessor s purchase decision. Similarly the first mention or appearance of a product may be determined from a note taking document a cache memory a browsing history or any other suitable information source.

Similarly in further embodiments determining a determined influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include correlating one or more aspects of a product related portion of the electronic accessed content accessed by the accessor with an activity associated with a purchase of a product at e.g. correlating electronic signals indicating a user s accessing of graphical content related to a product and an eventual registration of a newly purchased product from a supplier .

As shown in in further embodiments determining a determined influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include correlating at least one of a privately available information or a publicly available information with an activity indicative of a purchase at e.g. correlating a cookie or other evidence of browsing history with a credit card purchase record . For example in some implementations correlating at least one of a privately available information or a publicly available information with an activity indicative of a purchase at may include correlating at least one of an internet browsing history a cache history an electronic mail history a credit card history a bank account history or an electronic document development with an activity indicative of a purchase at e.g. correlating a browsing history of a last visited website with an email purchase confirmation .

Similarly in further embodiments correlating at least one of a privately available information or a publicly available information with an activity indicative of a purchase at may include correlating at least one of a privately available information or a publicly available information with at least one of an interne browsing history a cache history an electronic mail history a credit card history a bank account history an electronic document development or a product registration activity at e.g. correlating a browsing history of a last visited website with an electronic purchase record shown in a bank statement .

In further embodiments determining a determined influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include determining the determined influence using a determination component operating on an electronic device of the accessor at e.g. determining the determined influence using an influence determination software package operating on the purchaser s laptop computer .

Similarly in further embodiments determining a determined influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include determining the determined influence using an Ajax application operating on an electronic device of the accessor at e.g. determining the determined influence using an Ajax component operating on the purchaser s personal data assistant .

As shown in in further embodiments determining a determined influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include determining the determined influence using a determination component operating on an electronic device of the accessor and operable to render an interface accessible to the accessor at e.g. determining the determined influence using a software component that detects a purchase by the accessor and provides a display requesting the purchaser s input on the electronic content that influenced the purchase .

In further embodiments determining a determined influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include determining the determined influence using a determination component operating on an electronic device of the accessor and operable to communicate with a server that hosts the electronic accessed content at e.g. determining the determined influence using a software component that detects a purchase by the accessor and transmits information related to the purchase to one or more servers that hosted electronic content accessed by the purchaser prior to the purchase .

In further embodiments determining a determined influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include determining the determined influence using an assessment component operating on an electronic device of a provider of the electronic accessed content at e.g. determining the determined influence using an influence determination software package operating on the server that provided the content related to the purchased product .

In further embodiments determining a determined influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include determining a correlation between a first communication between a content site and a computing device responsive to a human user input and a second communication between the computing device and a beneficiary site at e.g. determining a correlation between an amount of information clicked on or reviewed by the accessor related to a product purchased by the accessor and a Paypal order confirmation message indicating a purchase of the product .

In further embodiments determining a determined influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include determining at least one of a linear correlation a relationship a non linear correlation a fuzzy correlation and or a fuzzy relationship between the first communication and the second communication at e.g. determining a determined influence assuming a direct relationship between a volume of electronic content accessed by a purchaser and a presumed influence level of the electronic content .

As shown in in further embodiments determining a determined influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include determining a first influence of a first electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party and determining a second influence of a second electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party at e.g. determining a first influence based on a first time period spent by an accessor accessing a first electronic content provided by a marketer and a second influence based on a second time period spent by the accessor accessing a second electronic content provided by the marketer .

In further embodiments determining a determined influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include determining a first influence of a first portion of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party and determining a second influence of a second portion of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party at e.g. determining a first influence of a first product review article provided by a marketer and reviewed by a purchaser and a second influence based on a second product review article provided by the marketer and reviewed by the purchaser .

In further embodiments determining a determined influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include determining a first influence of a first portion of the electronic accessed content provided by a first provider on the involvement between the accessor and the third party provided and determining a second influence of a second portion of the electronic accessed content provided by a second provider on the involvement between the accessor and the third party at e.g. determining a first influence of an endorsement of a first service by a first spokesperson and determining a second influence of another endorsement of a second service by a second spokesperson where an accessor eventually purchases at least one of the first or second services .

In further embodiments determining a determined influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include determining a first novelty attributable to a first electronic accessed content and determining a second novelty attributable to a second electronic accessed content at e.g. determining a first influence of a first commentator s viewpoint and determining a second influence of a second commentator s viewpoint where an accessor eventually submits a purchase order consistent with either the first viewpoint or the second viewpoint .

In still further embodiments determining a determined influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at may include anonymizing at least one of the access information the involvement information and or the assessed influence at e.g. removing any information that may be used to identify an accessor purchaser from information provided to a determination component operating on a server of a provider of an electronic content .

It will be appreciated that receiving an access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at may occur in a variety of ways. For example in a method as shown in receiving an access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at may include receiving data indicative of an accessor accessing at least one of a first network available electronic content having a first electronic content portion or a second network available electronic content having a second electronic content portion at e.g. receiving data indicative of a media player viewing a mashup that provides a first viewable podcast and a second viewable podcast .

In further embodiments receiving an access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at may include receiving data indicative of an accessor accessing at least one of a first network available electronic content having a first electronic content portion relevant to the third party or a second network available electronic content having a second electronic content portion relevant to the third party at e.g. receiving data indicative that an accessor accessed a first article for a first time period and a second article for a second time period receiving data indicative that an accessor recorded a first quantity of notes while reviewing a first article and a second quantity of notes while reviewing a second article .

Similarly it will be appreciated that receiving an involvement information indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may occur in a variety of ways. For example with continued reference to in some embodiments receiving an involvement information indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include receiving data indicative of at least one of an activity interaction purchase vote contribution and or relationship between the accessor and the third party at .

In further embodiments receiving an involvement information indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include receiving data useable in inferring an involvement between the accessor and the third party at e.g. receiving a cookie placed by the third party s website on the accessor s device indicative of a consumer transaction . Similarly in further embodiments receiving an involvement information indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include receiving an involvement information using a web service at e.g. receiving a report from a web service that performs tracking and reporting of durations of time spent by web browsers accessing websites . In still further embodiments receiving an involvement information indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include receiving an involvement information using an Ajax Asynchronous JavaScript and XML Extensible Markup Language application at e.g. receiving a report using an Ajax application that documents and reports podcasts downloaded to a platform or device .

As shown in in some embodiments receiving an involvement information indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include receiving an involvement information using a Flash application at e.g. receiving a report from a Flash application that provides enhanced interactive capabilities and also monitors web browsing activities . Similarly in further embodiments receiving an involvement information indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include receiving an involvement information using a mashup that includes the electronic accessed content and at least one of a web service an Ajax application a Flash application an electronic content or another electronic accessed content at e.g. receiving a purchase confirmation message from a mashup that provides audio or visual content to a viewer and a Flash application that provides animation and that reports online purchasing activities .

In further embodiments receiving an involvement information indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at may include receiving an involvement information using an open source machine implemented Web 2.0 construct at e.g. receiving a feed of information from an open source engine that monitors web browsing activities or an open source application that documents access time durations . More specifically in further embodiments receiving an access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at may include receiving an access information indicative of an accessing by an accessor of at least one of a digital content a textual content a graphical content an audio content a pictorial content a video content a streaming content an RSS Really Simple Syndication content an HTML HyperText Markup Language content an XML Extensible Markup Language content a human perceivable content or a machine readable content at . Similarly in further embodiments receiving an access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at may include receiving at least one of a user input a keystroke a navigation command a mouse movement a caching information a session information and or a visit information at .

As shown in in some embodiments receiving an access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at may include receiving an access information indicative of an accessing of a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct by an accessor at e.g. receiving a summary indicating a user s shopping activity including viewing of visual content from a mashup that includes a Web based information service . In further embodiments receiving an access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at may include receiving an access information indicative of an accessing of a web service by an accessor at e.g. receiving information indicating a user s viewing of product related information from an RSS feed of consumer oriented information from a Web based information service .

Similarly in further embodiments receiving an access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at may include receiving an access information indicative of an accessing of an Ajax Asynchronous JavaScript and XML Extensible Markup Language application by an accessor at e.g. receiving information indicating a PDA Personal Data Assistant access of an Ajax application from a website that provides Internet search services . In still further embodiments receiving an access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at may include receiving an access information indicative of an accessing of a Flash application by an accessor at e.g. receiving information indicating a computer access of a Flash application that provides animation of aspects of a product from a retailer .

In further embodiments receiving an access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at may include receiving an access information indicative of an accessing of a Web 2.0 electronic content by an accessor e.g. receiving information indicating a computer access of a mashup that includes an animation related Flash application from a website that offers services for sale . Similarly in further embodiments receiving an access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at may include receiving an access information indicative of an accessing by an accessor of a mashup that includes the machine implemented Web 2.0 construct and at least one of a web service an Ajax application a Flash application an electronic content or another machine implemented Web 2.0 construct at .

As shown in in some embodiments receiving an access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at may include receiving an access information using a component operating on an electronic device of the accessor at e.g. receiving an access report using an asynchronous engine loaded on an accessor s mobile device . In further embodiments receiving an access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at may include receiving an access information using a component operating on an electronic device of a provider of the electronic accessed content at e.g. receiving an access report using a software package loaded on a server that hosts an accessed electronic content .

Similarly in further embodiments receiving an access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at may include receiving an access information from an engine loaded locally relative to the accessor at . e.g. receiving an access report using a software package loaded on an accessor s laptop . In further embodiments receiving an access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at may include receiving an access information via an Ajax application loaded locally relative to the accessor at e.g. receiving a report including sites visited and duration of visits using an Ajax package loaded on an accessor s cell phone .

In further embodiments receiving an access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at may include receiving an access information via an engine operable to render an interface accessible to the accessor at e.g. receiving a browsing summary using a component that presents a menu for user provided influence input . Similarly in further embodiments receiving an access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at may include receiving an access information via an engine operable to communicate with a server that hosts the electronic accessed content at e.g. receiving a periodic browsing report from a software component that transmits the periodic browsing report to one or more servers that host product related information .

Additional embodiments and aspects of processes and systems in accordance with the present disclosure are depicted in which shows a flowchart of a method that includes receiving an access information indicative of an accessing of an electronic accessed content by an accessor at receiving an involvement information indicative of an involvement between the accessor and a third party at wherein at least one of receiving the access information or receiving the involvement information includes receiving using a machine implemented Web 2.0 construct at and determining a determined influence of the electronic accessed content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party based at least partially on the access information and the involvement information at . The method further includes facilitating a benefit to an entity based at least partially on the determined influence at e.g. providing compensation to a provider of a product review article based on a determined influence of the article authorizing a credit for future goods or services to an owner of an electronic content based on a determined influence that exceeds a predetermined threshold providing a discount on airline flights based on a determined influence of a favorable travel recommendation .

It will be appreciated that the facilitating a benefit to an entity based at least partially on the determined influence at may be implemented in a variety of ways. For example in some embodiments facilitating a benefit to an entity based at least partially on the determined influence at may include facilitating delivery of a first benefit to an owner of a first electronic content and a second benefit to an owner of a second electronic content in response to an assessed influence by the first electronic content and or the second electronic content on the involvement between the accessor and the third party a difference between the first benefit and the second benefit responsive to an evaluation of an influence of the first electronic content and or an evaluation of an influence of the second electronic content at e.g. providing a relatively smaller rate reduction on goods to a first author of a consumer report providing a moderately positive endorsement of a product and a relatively larger rate reduction on goods to a second author of a consumer report providing a highly positive endorsement of the product the difference between the larger and smaller rate reductions being based on an evaluation of the relative influence of the consumer reports by the first and second authors .

It should be appreciated that the processes and methods described above with reference to are merely illustrative of a few of the many possible processes and methods in which the teachings of the present disclosure may be implemented and that the teachings herein are not limited to the particular processes and methods described above.

Additional aspects of exemplary systems and environments for implementing aspects of methods and processes in accordance with the present disclosure will now be described. For example illustrates an exemplary environment in which further embodiments may be implemented. In this implementation the environment includes a communication device that communicates via a communication infrastructure with an influence determiner . The influence determiner includes an influence determination component in accordance with the teachings of the present disclosure. In some implementations the communication device may bypass the infrastructure and communicate directly with the influence determiner or may simply communicate with the infrastructure itself.

As further shown in in some implementations the environment may include one or more additional communication devices . In will be appreciated that the communication devices may be a wide variety of suitable devices. For example in some implementations the communication device or may be a hand held device e.g. personal data assistant PDA global positioning system GPS radio television audio device audio visual device mobile communicator signal processor etc. a laptop or mobile computer A a cellular telephone B a desktop computer C a server D or any other suitable device E having the desired communication capabilities.

In some implementations the influence determiner may provide electronic content for access by the communication devices . In further implementations the environment may include one or more content providers . The content providers and the influence determiner may include a wide variety of suitable devices. For example in some implementations the content providers may include a server a database A a hand held device B e.g. personal data assistant PDA global positioning system GPS radio television audio device audio visual device mobile communicator signal processor etc. a laptop or mobile computer C a cellular telephone D a desktop computer E or any other suitable device E having the desired content providing capabilities.

In some implementations the infrastructure may include a variety of suitable components that cooperatively provide a wired or wireless communications functionality. Various exemplary communication components of the infrastructure are shown in for illustrative purposes. For example in some implementations the infrastructure may include one or more of the following a communications satellite an antenna tower a computer a communications dish a signal carrier and one or more networks . Alternately other communications components may be used. In particular implementations for example the infrastructure may include components that make up a Core Network CN and or a UMTS Terrestrial Radio Access Network UTRAN of a modern UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication System .

As further illustrated in in some implementations the communication device includes one or more processors and one or more input output I O devices coupled to a system memory by a bus . Power may be provided to the components of the communication device via a power supply . The system bus of the communication device represents any of the several types of bus structures including a memory bus or memory controller a peripheral bus an accelerated graphics port and a processor or local bus using any of a variety of bus architectures. The I O component may be configured to operatively communicate with one or more external components such as one or more components of the infrastructure one or more other communication devices the influence determiner one or more content providers or other communications networks such a cellular telephone network a satellite network an information network e.g. Internet intranet cellular network cable network fiber optic network LAN WAN etc. an infrared or radio wave communication network or any other suitable network.

The system memory may include computer readable media configured to store data and or program modules for implementing the techniques disclosed herein that are immediately accessible to and or presently operated on by the processor . For example the system memory may store a basic input output system BIOS an operating system one or more application programs e.g. a web browser a communications program etc. and program data that can be accessed by the processor for performing various tasks desired by a user of the communication device . The other communication devices of the environment may have an internal structure similar to or different than that of the communication device shown in .

The computer readable media included in the system memory can be any available media that can be accessed by the device including computer storage media and communication media. Computer storage media may include both volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to random access memory RAM read only memory ROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology compact disk ROM CD ROM digital versatile disks DVD or other optical disk storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium including paper punch cards and the like which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the communication device .

Similarly communication media may include computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal means a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal. By way of example and not limitation communication media includes wired media such as a wired network or direct wired connection and wireless media such as acoustic RF radio frequency infrared and other wireless media. Combinations of any of the above should also be included within the scope of computer readable media.

Generally program modules executed on the communication devices the influence determiner or the content providers may include routines programs objects components data structures etc. for performing particular tasks or implementing particular abstract data types. These program modules and the like may be executed as a native code or may be downloaded and executed such as in a virtual machine or other just in time compilation execution environments. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various implementations.

As shown in in some implementations the influence determination component may include a communication component operatively communicating with an influence assessment component . In further implementations the influence determination component may also include a content providing component a benefit facilitation component and a storage component . The various components of the influence determination component may operatively communicate using known techniques to accomplish the desired functionalities described herein. In addition unless otherwise specified it will be appreciated that the various components of the influence determination component may be implemented using hardware software firmware or combinations thereof.

As further shown in the communication component may also include one or more I O devices e.g. antennas ports etc. processors circuitry e.g. ASICs signal conditioning etc. storage devices or any other suitable desired sub components or sub systems to cooperatively perform the desired functionalities described herein. Although the portions and components of the communication component are depicted in as being separate portions and components for the sake of clarity it should be appreciated that these portions and components are not necessarily separate and may variously be combined or may have overlapping portions components or functionalities.

In some implementations the influence assessment component may include a portion configured to assess a novelty of an electronic accessed content relevant to the influence assessment. In further implementations the influence assessment component may include a portion configured to form a hypothesis relevant to the influence assessment. Similarly the influence assessment component may include a portion configured to transform and or aggregate at least one of the access information the involvement information and or the assessed influence. In some implementations the influence assessment component may include a portion configured to anonymize at least one of the access information the involvement information and or the assessed influence. Further possible implementations and aspects of the influence assessment component are described more fully below.

Although such components are not shown in for the sake of clarity in some implementations the influence assessment component may also include one or more I O devices e.g. antennas ports etc. processors circuitry e.g. ASICs signal conditioning etc. or storage devices see . Again although the portions and components of the influence assessment component are depicted in as being separate portions and components for the sake of clarity it should be appreciated that these portions and components are not necessarily separate and may variously be combined or may have overlapping portions components or functionalities.

As shown in the content providing component may also include one or more I O devices e.g. antennas ports etc. processors circuitry e.g. ASICs signal conditioning etc. or storage devices . Again although the portions and components of the content providing component are depicted in as being separate portions and components for the sake of clarity it should be appreciated that these portions and components are not necessarily separate and may variously be combined or may have overlapping portions components or functionalities.

As shown in the benefit facilitation component may also include one or more I O devices e.g. antennas ports etc. processors circuitry e.g. ASICs signal conditioning etc. or storage devices . Again although the portions and components of the benefit facilitation component are depicted in as being separate portions and components for the sake of clarity it should be appreciated that these portions and components are not necessarily separate and may variously be combined or may have overlapping portions components or functionalities.

As shown in the storage component may also include one or more I O devices e.g. antennas ports etc. processors circuitry e.g. ASICs signal conditioning etc. or storage devices . Again although the portions and components of the storage component are depicted in as being separate portions and components for the sake of clarity it should be appreciated that these portions and components are not necessarily separate and may variously be combined or may have overlapping portions components or functionalities.

It should be appreciated that the exemplary systems and environments described above with reference to and are merely illustrative of a few of the many possible systems and environments in which the teachings of the present disclosure may be implemented and that the teachings herein are not limited to the particular systems and environments described above.

It should be appreciated that the particular embodiments of systems and processes described herein are merely possible implementations of the present disclosure and that the present disclosure is not limited to the particular implementations described herein and shown in the accompanying figures. For example in alternate implementations certain acts need not be performed in the order described and may be modified and or may be omitted entirely depending on the circumstances. Moreover in various implementations the acts described may be implemented by a computer controller processor programmable device or any other suitable device and may be based on instructions stored on one or more computer readable media or otherwise stored or programmed into such devices. In the event that computer readable media are used the computer readable media can be any available media that can be accessed by a device to implement the instructions stored thereon.

Various methods systems and techniques may be described and implemented in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules executed by one or more processors or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various alternate embodiments. In addition embodiments of these methods systems and techniques may be stored on or transmitted across some form of computer readable media.

It may also be appreciated that there may be little distinction between hardware and software implementations of aspects of systems and methods disclosed herein. The use of hardware or software may generally be a design choice representing cost vs. efficiency tradeoffs however in certain contexts the choice between hardware and software can become significant. Those having skill in the art will appreciate that there are various vehicles by which processes systems and technologies described herein can be effected e.g. hardware software firmware or combinations thereof and that a preferred vehicle may vary depending upon the context in which the processes systems and technologies are deployed. For example if an implementer determines that speed and accuracy are paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly hardware and or firmware vehicle. Alternatively if flexibility is paramount the implementer may opt for a mainly software implementation. In still other implementations the implementer may opt for some combination of hardware software and or firmware. Hence there are several possible vehicles by which the processes and or devices and or other technologies described herein may be effected and which may be desired over another may be a choice dependent upon the context in which the vehicle will be deployed and the specific concerns e.g. speed flexibility or predictability of the implementer any of which may vary. Those skilled in the art will recognize that optical aspects of implementations will typically employ optically oriented hardware software and or firmware.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that it is common within the art to describe devices and or processes in the fashion set forth herein and thereafter use standard engineering practices to integrate such described devices and or processes into workable systems having the described functionality. That is at least a portion of the devices and or processes described herein can be developed into a workable system via a reasonable amount of experimentation.

The herein described aspects and drawings illustrate different components contained within or connected with different other components. It is to be understood that such depicted architectures are merely exemplary and that in fact many other architectures can be implemented which achieve the same functionality. In a conceptual sense any arrangement of components to achieve the same functionality is effectively associated such that the desired functionality is achieved. Hence any two components herein combined to achieve a particular functionality can be seen as associated with each other such that the desired functionality is achieved irrespective of architectures or intermedial components. Likewise any two components so associated can also be viewed as being operably connected or operably coupled or operatively connected or operatively coupled to each other to achieve the desired functionality and any two components capable of being so associated can also be viewed as being operably couplable or operatively couplable to each other to achieve the desired functionality. Specific examples of operably couplable include but are not limited to physically mateable and or physically interacting components and or wirelessly interactable and or wirelessly interacting components and or logically interacting and or logically interactable components.

Those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein can be implemented in standard integrated circuits and also as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers and also as one or more software programs running on one or more processors and also as firmware as well as virtually any combination thereof. It will be further understood that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware could be accomplished by a person skilled in the art in light of the teachings and explanations of this disclosure.

The foregoing detailed description has set forth various embodiments of the devices and or processes via the use of block diagrams flowcharts and or examples. Insofar as such block diagrams flowcharts and or examples contain one or more functions and or operations it will be understood by those within the art that each function and or operation within such block diagrams flowcharts or examples can be implemented individually and or collectively by a wide range of hardware software firmware or virtually any combination thereof. For example in some embodiments several portions of the subject matter described herein may be implemented via Application Specific Integrated Circuits ASICs Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs digital signal processors DSPs or other integrated formats. However those skilled in the art will recognize that some aspects of the embodiments disclosed herein in whole or in part can be equivalently implemented in standard integrated circuits as one or more computer programs running on one or more computers e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more computer systems as one or more programs running on one or more processors e.g. as one or more programs running on one or more microprocessors as firmware or as virtually any combination thereof and that designing the circuitry and or writing the code for the software and or firmware would be well within the skill of one of skill in the art in light of this disclosure.

In addition those skilled in the art will appreciate that the mechanisms of the subject matter described herein are capable of being distributed as a program product in a variety of forms and that an illustrative embodiment of the subject matter described herein applies equally regardless of the particular type of signal bearing media used to actually carry out the distribution. Examples of a signal bearing media include but are not limited to the following recordable type media such as floppy disks hard disk drives CD ROMs digital tape and computer memory and transmission type media such as digital and analog communication links using TDM or IP based communication links e.g. packet links .

While particular aspects of the present subject matter described herein have been shown and described it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that based upon the teachings herein changes and modifications may be made without departing from the subject matter described herein and its broader aspects and therefore the appended claims are to encompass within their scope all such changes and modifications as are within the true spirit and scope of this subject matter described herein. Furthermore it is to be understood that the invention is defined by the appended claims. It will be understood by those within the art that in general terms used herein and especially in the appended claims e.g. bodies of the appended claims are generally intended as open terms e.g. the term including should be interpreted as including but not limited to the term having should be interpreted as having at least the term includes should be interpreted as includes but is not limited to etc. . It will be further understood by those within the art that if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is intended such an intent will be explicitly recited in the claim and in the absence of such recitation no such intent is present. For example as an aid to understanding the following appended claims may contain usage of the introductory phrases at least one and one or more to introduce claim recitations. However the use of such phrases should not be construed to imply that the introduction of a claim recitation by the indefinite articles a or an limits any particular claim containing such introduced claim recitation to inventions containing only one such recitation even when the same claim includes the introductory phrases one or more or at least one and indefinite articles such as a or an e.g. a and or an should typically be interpreted to mean at least one or one or more the same holds true for the use of definite articles used to introduce claim recitations. In addition even if a specific number of an introduced claim recitation is explicitly recited those skilled in the art will recognize that such recitation should typically be interpreted to mean at least the recited number e.g. the bare recitation of two recitations without other modifiers typically means at least two recitations or two or more recitations . Furthermore in those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B and C etc. is used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B and C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. . In those instances where a convention analogous to at least one of A B or C etc. used in general such a construction is intended in the sense one having skill in the art would understand the convention e.g. a system having at least one of A B or C would include but not be limited to systems that have A alone B alone C alone A and B together A and C together B and C together and or A B and C together etc. .

As a further example of open terms in the present specification and claims it will be understood that usage of a language construction A or B is generally interpreted as a non exclusive open term meaning A alone B alone and or A and B together.

Although various features have been described in considerable detail with reference to certain preferred embodiments other embodiments are possible. Therefore the spirit or scope of the appended claims should not be limited to the description of the embodiments contained herein.

