---

title: Autonomous magnetic measurement system
abstract: The invention as disclosed is an autonomous magnetic measurement system for monitoring the background magnetic fields associated with power lines, electronic devices, electronic vehicles and the Earth's background magnetic field. The components of the autonomous magnetic measurement system include a series of three axis analog magnetic sensors, a fluxgate compass, and a programmable micro-controller. The micro-controller receives data from the sensor and compass and is programmed to autonomously detect magnetic signals having particular characteristics of interest.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08321161&OS=08321161&RS=08321161
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretarty of the Navy
number: 08321161
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100917
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention is directed to the measurement of magnetic fields. In particular the present invention is directed to a sensor system that autonomously monitors both direct current DC and alternating current AC magnetic fields of electrical devices and electric power transmission.

Often times it is necessary to measure and monitor magnetic fields. In clean rooms research facilities and electromagnetic interference and electromagnetic compatibility test chambers knowledge of local background magnetic fields is critical. It is well known that magnetic fields are associated with electric power transmission lines house hold electric appliances and electric vehicles. It is not as well known however the natural variability of the magnetic fields associated with the aforementioned transmission lines appliances and vehicles as well as the associated maximum magnetic fields over specified periods of time within a specified proximity.

It is a general purpose and object of the present invention to measure the natural variability of the magnetic fields associated with transmission lines and electric devices as well as the associated maximum magnetic fields over specified periods of time within a specified proximity.

The above object is accomplished with the present invention through the use of an autonomous magnetic measurement system for monitoring the background magnetic fields associated with power lines electronic devices electronic vehicles and the Earth s background magnetic field. The components of the autonomous magnetic measurement system include a series of three axis analog magnetic sensors a fluxgate compass and a programmable micro controller. The micro controller receives data from the sensor and compass and is programmed to autonomously detect magnetic signals having particular characteristics of interest.

Referring to there is illustrated the autonomous magnetic measurement system of the present invention. The system is comprised of a tetrahedral structure arranged with five three axis analog magnetic sensor and one at each of the vertices of the tetrahedral structure . The tetrahedral structure provides a physical support for the three axis magnetic sensors and and is constructed of polyethylene or other non magnetic dielectric material. Each three axis magnetic sensor and is in communication with a processor where data from each magnetic sensor is interpreted and processed according to the requirements of the particular measurement. In particular each three axis magnetic sensor and can measure both DC and AC magnetic fields digitize the analog data and communicate the data to the processor . The individual three axis magnetic sensors and are aligned such that the x axis of each sensor is parallel to the other sensors and the z axis of each sensor points in the positive up direction so as to form a right handed system according to convention. This arrangement of magnetic sensors comprises a gradiometer with the magnetic sensors and forming the gradiometer and magnetic sensor serving as the reference sensor. Unlike total field or vector measurements gradiometers are concerned with the spatial gradient G of the magnetic field B . A simple method to calculate the y direction magnetic field vector B gradient along the y axis is to have magnetic sensor and measure Band Bat their respective locations. The difference or gradient B is given by B B. In the limit B is given by

Referring to there is illustrated a detailed view of the internal components of the processor joined to the magnetic sensors and of the autonomous magnetic field measurement system of the present invention. The processor of the system processes the digital signals from each of the magnetic sensors the reference magnetic sensor and an internal flux gate compass that measures the orientation of the autonomous magnetic field measurement system. The flux gate compass is connected to a micro controller which functions as a programmable digital processor via a universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART . An electric power source provides direct current power to the autonomous magnetic field measurement system. In a preferred embodiment the power source is a rechargeable lithium ion battery. The power source is connected to the micro controller via a standard power connection and distributes power to both the micro controller and the magnetic sensors and . In a preferred embodiment each three axis analog magnetic sensor and is a vector magnetic sensor based on the Giant Magneto Impedance GMI effect in soft magnetic wires. The GMI effect is observed in permalloy micro fibers of very small diameter approximately 30 microns driven by an AC current resulting in a voltage drop across the fiber proportional to an applied axial magnetic field. Three micro fibers arranged orthogonally can be formed into a three axis vector magnetometer. Each GMI magnetometer and is a self contained unit and provides both DC and AC digital magnetic field data to the micro controller via individual parallel port interfaces such as RS 232 ports . The micro controller is programmed with embedded analysis software . The analysis software is stored on random access memory unit attached to and in direct communication with micro controller . In a preferred embodiment the analysis software can be varied and tailored to specific applications such as power lines or generators by removing the memory unit and modifying the analysis software . The analysis software instructs the micro controller to constantly receive data from the GMI magnetometers and and fluxgate compass to measure the dynamic magnetic fields of interest and to contrast them to the Earth s magnetic field. In particular the micro controller is programmed to measure the natural variability of the magnetic field of an electrical device as well as the maximum magnetic field at different frequencies.

In one example the autonomous magnetic measurement system of the present invention is used to monitor the magnetic fields generated by power lines the micro controller is programmed to monitor and record signals at 60 HZ and related odd or even harmonics. Such odd and even harmonics include signals at 180 300 420 540 2n 1 60 HZ for n 1 2 3 . . . respectively. The micro controller recording capability monitors the background field autonomously for a specified period of time such as one week. The relevant magnetic field data of interest is identified and stored in a non volatile digital memory storage device . In a preferred embodiment the storage device is removable and when storage capacity is reached it can be replaced with another storage device .

The magnetic field levels generated by power lines are monitored in the nano tesla nT range. The micro controller averages the magnetic field levels to derive a composite number for each frequency of interest over a twenty four hour period. The 24 hour day can be divided up into 6 4 hour periods and the statistical properties of the power line fluctuations can be thus related to various times of the day e.g. peak power usage might be during the 1600 to 2000 hour block. In this way power line field levels can be correlated to power usage in a particular area of interest.

In an alternative example the autonomous magnetic measurement system of the present invention can be used to measure the dynamic magnetic fields of an electric device such as a microwave oven over a twenty four hour period. In such an example the peak magnetic field in nano teslas nT is computed by the micro controller . The peak magnetic field determines the potential exposure of a human being to magnetic fields at a given distance. The autonomous magnetic measurement system will measure the peak field over a specified period of time and can then be moved to a different distance either nearer or closer to the electric device. In addition at each measurement location the gradient is computed by measuring the difference magnetic field in each direction e.g. the magnetic gradient in the X direction is B BB x where Bis the magnetic field in the x direction measured on magnetometer and Bis the magnetic field in the x direction measured on magnetometer . Thus measurements of peak magnetic field and gradient of the magnetic field will completely characterize the behavior of the electric device in question. The analysis software as programmed for the micro controller of the autonomous magnetic field measurement system measures and instructs the micro controller to compute the magnetic fields and magnetic field gradients autonomously over a period of time specified by the user.

In both examples as stated above in a preferred embodiment of the present invention the three axis analog magnetic sensors and are giant magneto impedance GMI based vector magnetometers that measure magnetic fields in all directions continuously and autonomously over the measurement period as opposed to prior art devices that perform instantaneous measurements in a single direction. The micro controller is programmed to provide the means to interpret the instantaneous three axis magnetic field data for peak magnetic fields. The three axis analog magnetic sensors and are vector devices that measure the magnetic field in three orthogonal directions and compute the total magnetic field according to B B B . In a preferred embodiment each of the three axis analog magnetic sensors and uses three identical circuits each comprised of a 1 mm length of amorphous ferromagnetic fiber composed primarily of nickel Ni cobalt Co and Iron Fe in a micro fiber that is approximately thirty microns in diameter and a preamplifier assembled into a three orthogonal axis probe. The micro fiber exhibits a property known as giant magneto impedance GMI where a radio frequency current of a specific frequency is driven down the fiber in the absence of a magnetic field. This establishes baseline impedance or reference impedance. An applied magnetic field varies the micro fiber impedance and a table of voltage verses applied magnetic field is constructed and where the voltage output of each axis is directly proportional to the applied magnetic field along that axis.

Digital data from each GMI magnetometer and is clocked into the micro controller for the analysis software that programs the micro controller . The analysis software can be customized to analyze the magnetic field data according to specific applications. In this way magnetic fields in every spatial dimension are measured as well as the total magnetic field for a specified device and frequency.

In an alternative embodiment each GMI magnetometer and and the processor are fabricated on a single integrated circuit chip having multiple interfaces to allow a standard computer to read data directly from the stand alone self contained portion and display the data in a plot or spreadsheet.

The micro controller is programmed to receive sensor measurements from the three axis analog magnetic sensors and at a continuous sample rate that is application specific depending upon the type of magnetic field of interest. For instance the sample rate for electric power lines is 1 kHz. The micro controller is programmed to sample at a specified rate for a specified period of time such as one week to measure both the background magnetic field and a specific magnetic field. During that period the micro controller is programmed to record only magnetic fields associated with a particular frequency related to the electrical apparatus in question.

While it is apparent that the illustrative embodiments of the invention disclosed herein fulfill the objectives of the present invention it is appreciated that numerous modifications and other embodiments may be devised by those skilled in the art. Additionally feature s and or element s from any embodiment may be used singly or in combination with other embodiment s . Therefore it will be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and embodiments which would come within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

