---

title: Systems and methods for managing content associated with multiple brand categories within a social media system
abstract: Embodiments of the present disclosure generally relate to aspects of an Internet-accessible brand management system (BMS) that allows marketers (e.g., corporations, organizations, etc.) to efficiently organize, create, maintain, and display content associated with many brand categories or brand items within a brand category on a single social media system (SMS) page/account, or alternatively, across many SMS pages or accounts with one or more common content themes. Administrators/developers of individual marketing pages or accounts (global and local) may update their pages through the BMS using standard configurable templates. The system may integrate content from one or more developers to create content for varying pages (for example, by incorporating some global content into local pages according to configurable rules, or vice versa). Subsequently, when a social media system user requests content associated with a particular brand category or brand item within that category on a social media system, the brand management system renders the updated, requested marketing page associated with that category, but within a global marketer page, or with common marketer content also provided.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09047612&OS=09047612&RS=09047612
owner: ORACLE INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
number: 09047612
owner_city: Redwood Shores
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100913
---
This application claims benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 61 241 674 filed Sep. 11 2009 and entitled System and Method for Social Network Brand Management which is hereby incorporated by reference as if set forth herein in its entirety.

The present application relates generally to social media systems and more particularly to methods and systems that support the practice of marketing on social media systems.

The popularity of social media websites or portals such as Facebook Twitter and others has increased markedly in recent years compelling marketers and advertisers to analyze the potential of these channels for marketing their products and services. These portals provide a platform for individual users to interact and at the same time present organizations with potential marketing tools such as Facebook pages or Twitter handles enabling marketers to interact with social media followers. Marketers can post messages or advertisements on these social media systems as a way to advertise outside traditional marketing channels. Members in turn can respond by clicking on embedded links replying to the messages starting posts based on the messages or performing other site specific functions. Further marketers can embed an organization specific or marketing campaign specific URL webpage address within the messages driving users and web traffic to a separate web site.

Even though viral marketing through these social media systems can prove profitable for organizations in terms of additional media coverage and greater brand awareness organizations may face difficulties in maintaining and managing content associated with more than one brand category on a given social media system on an ongoing basis. As described here and in greater detail below a brand category relates to a classification of content associated with a given marketer or organization. For example a brand category for a given company could be retail or franchise locations associated with or operated by the company product lines within the company customer segments trademarks etc. Within each brand category are individual brand items such as individual retail locations specific products within a product line etc. e.g. a Miami store location could be a brand item within the retail locations brand category . Further the content associated with a given brand item on a social media system could be text posts photos videos coupons and other similar types of content related to the brand item and displayed on a social media system web page or account. Details associated with brand items and brand categories are described in greater detail below.

For marketers e.g. companies organizations individuals etc. the task of updating and managing social media system pages or accounts associated with these brand categories and the individual brand items within each category with new advertising content on a regular basis can become overwhelming. Moreover management of the social media system content requires a large team of administrators spread across the organization or its franchises. These administrators may have little to no interaction with each other causing them to follow their own marketing templates social media page organization schemes content styles and other features which destroys uniformity and brand consistency for the marketer. Additionally organizations may wish to post common content relating to aspects of the organization that affect all brand categories such as company wide sales and promotions advertisements etc. but while preserving local content associated with specific brand items within brand categories e.g. promotions specific to local franchise locations . Currently no social media system allows organizations to link their content associated with many different brand categories on potentially many different social media system pages or accounts in a cohesive manner to provide a consistent user experience.

Additionally because marketing data and metrics associated with success or performance of various promotions advertisements social media system displays etc. are spread across multiple social media system pages or accounts analysis and comparison of the brand items may be cumbersome. No existing service effectively assists marketers and advertisers in managing structuring and displaying data associated with their brand categories and associated brand items in an integrated and coherent fashion.

Therefore a long felt but unresolved need exists for a system or method that structures and integrates third party brand items and social media system pages displays or accounts associated with those brand items so as to provide a consistent experience for both social media system members and marketer content administrators. There remains a further need for a system or method that is simple to implement does not require extensive data analysis and can be easily configured according to an administrator s preferences.

Briefly described and according to one embodiment the present disclosure describes a computer implemented method for structuring brand item profiles developed by multiple developers on a social media system SMS . The method includes the steps of receiving a content developer request to access a user interface to enable creation of content based on corresponding access rights. The method further comprises the step of standardizing the content before integrating the content from multiple content developers into a brand item profile according to predefined rules. Finally the method includes the step of publishing the brand item profile on a page or account on the social media system based on a user selection.

Another embodiment of the present disclosure presents a brand management system for structuring brand item profiles created by multiple content developers on a social media system SMS . The system includes a user interface for allowing content developers to create specific content and a content development module for standardizing content created by the content developers. The content may include a text string multimedia message or a custom file such as .swf file that will render on more than one social media platform . The system also includes a manager for integrating the specific content created by the content developers into a brand item profile according to predefined rules and a publisher for rendering the brand item profile on a page or account on the social media system based on a user selection.

Certain embodiments of the present disclosure may offer various technical advantages. For instance large organizations may create maintain structure and integrate content from multiple developers in a cohesive manner improving user experience and in turn producing effective marketing strategies. Moreover certain embodiments may allow marketers or advertisers to maximize click through rates by generating interactive and visually stimulating brand item profiles from a single platform. Embodiments of the present system render a unified brand image to customers while at the same time providing personalized content for their customers.

These and other aspects features and benefits of the claimed invention s will become apparent from the following detailed written description of the preferred embodiments and aspects taken in conjunction with the following drawings although variations and modifications thereto may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

For promoting an understanding of the principles of the present disclosure reference will now be made to the embodiments illustrated in the drawings and specific language will be used to describe the same. It will nevertheless be understood that no limitation of the scope of the disclosure is thereby intended any alterations and further modifications of the described or illustrated embodiments and any further applications of the principles of the disclosure as illustrated therein are contemplated as would normally occur to one skilled in the art to which the disclosure relates. Limitations of scope should be determined in accordance with and as expressed in the claims.

Embodiments of the present disclosure generally relate to aspects of an Internet accessible brand management system BMS that allows marketers e.g. corporations companies organizations etc. to efficiently organize create maintain and display content associated with many brand categories or brand items within a brand category on a single social media system SMS page or alternatively across many SMS pages or accounts with one or more common content themes. As mentioned previously a brand category corresponds to a classification of content associated with a given marketer or organization. A brand category might comprise product lines within a company or retail locations within a company or customer segments etc.

Most corporations or marketers have established a presence on at least one social media system such as Facebook . That presence could take the form of a global or corporate social media system page or account which may relate to advertising content associated with a marketer as a whole rather than content associated with its individual products or retail locations. Social media system users may express affinity for the marketer by following the marketer s global or corporate social media system marketing page by becoming a fan of the global page on Facebook for example. Through the global marketing page or account organizations can communicate with their fans by posting content such as messages advertisements contests and the like.

In addition to the global marketing page large marketers often desire to create multiple local marketing pages which include content e.g. text posts videos audio files images electronic coupons etc. that relates to individual brand items within a brand category such as discrete product lines franchises locations customer segments etc. of the marketer. By allowing social media system members to follow content within discrete brand categories such as programs related to their most preferred product or retail outlet marketers create a more personal image and keep fans engaged.

However managing many different brand categories and individual content within each category poses a daunting logistical challenge. For instance employees of a retail giant e.g. Best Buy McDonald s JC Penney etc. with stores in every major city may create and update their own social media system pages or accounts for their respective stores and perhaps without the corporate marketer s permission. Content administrators of the local social media system pages may be present in different geographical locations and moreover may be employed under different management and therefore the content on each local marketing page may follow a different display format style content type etc. thereby creating varied look and feel and non uniformity amongst the marketer s brand items. Currently social media systems do not allow marketers to integrate multiple brand categories and brand items within those categories thereby allowing centralized and localized management simultaneously.

Embodiments of the present disclosure present a brand management system BMS that allows marketers to maintain and integrate content across many brand categories in a social media system in a uniform fashion. Administrators developers of individual marketing pages or accounts global and local may update their pages through the brand management system using standard configurable templates. The system may integrate content from one or more developers to create content for varying pages for example by incorporating some global content into local pages according to configurable rules or vice versa . Subsequently when a social media system user requests content associated with a particular brand category or brand item within that category on a social media system the brand management system renders the updated requested marketing page associated with that category but within a global marketer page or with common marketer content also provided described in greater detail below .

In one embodiment an organization maintains one global or corporate or unitary SMS web page or account relating to common aspects associated with the organization but within the global page also maintains a plurality of display regions relating to individual brand items associated with the organization s brand categories. For example a marketer may present a global SMS page but within the page are many different display regions relating to individual franchise locations of the marketer. Within the individual display regions may be content that relates specifically to the individual franchise locations such as location specific offers information about upcoming events hours and location information etc. Or each individual display region may relate to a specific product sold by the marketer or some other brand item related content. This functionality enables brand item specific content to be displayed in a uniform fashion within a marketer s global page or account. A SMS user through an application introduced by the BMS on the global marketer page may search for and select his or her preferred brand item which is then displayed in a appropriate display region. The brand management system may then render the selected brand item profile within the global SMS page as referred to herein a brand item profile relates to a collection of data associated with a given brand item that is displayed to a SMS user via a specific display region or separate SMS page account .

In an alternate embodiment rather than maintaining one global SMS page account a marketer maintains or allows its various employees administrators a plurality of separate SMS pages accounts but ties the pages together with common marketer elements. For example each separate SMS page may be required to include certain marketer prescribed content such as the marketer s logo a slogan etc. Or the marketer may require that certain display regions within each individual SMS page include certain marketer specified content or comprise a marketer defined format or look and feel. Accordingly by requiring that content developers within an organization or within its various divisions retail locations etc. create SMS content via an embodiment of the brand management system the system forces the content to conform to predefined rules resulting in a standardized integrated overall SMS experience for SMS users that view the marketer s SMS pages or accounts.

In one embodiment developers manage content for one or more brand items within a particular brand category or categories for the client . As referred to herein a developer represents an individual associated with a client that has access privileges to create advertising content to post to the client s social media system accounts. As also referred to herein a brand item refers to a particular division within a brand category such as a specific retail location within a locations category. An example of a developer is an employee of the client within the client s marketing department or at a given retail location etc. Moreover multiple developers may develop content simultaneously for the same brand item profile or different profiles. For example a retail chain may have three developers for a retail store for a group of retail stores in a locality or for all the retail stores in a specific area. As referred to herein a brand item profile relates to a collection of data or content associated with a given brand item that is to be displayed to a SMS user on a SMS page or display region.

Members of the social media system such as users can access a marketer s various SMS pages accounts brand item profiles etc. on the system through the network . As referred to herein a member of a social media system is an end user of the system. Thus the messages and content created by clients and developers will be generally targeted to SMS members .

Traditionally developer groups access their respective SMS accounts on the social media systems directly through those systems and publish messages posts or respond to user activity on the given SMS s. A message may typically include content such as text images video and the like. Users may reply to the messages post comments etc. The overall purpose of the posts and corresponding user interaction is to create user interest in the marketer s goods or services similar to traditional advertising. In this typical situation the individual brand item profile of each developer or group of developers offers a disconnected experience to the users as the look and feel of these brand item profiles may be very different. For example an individual franchise location may create its own SMS account and corresponding brand item profile for the location and that profile may look and feel very different from other pages or profiles associated with the marketer. Further each individual brand item profile may utilize different logos themes colors etc. as compared to others within an organization.

Embodiments of the present disclosure obviate these problems by presenting a single integrated platform e.g. BMS that enables a marketer client and its developers to link various SMS accounts and brand item profiles create standardized content generate singular SMS web pages for a common user experience and conduct other similar functions. Developers may log in to the BMS and create or update content for their respective brand item profiles. The BMS may then assist the developers in standardizing the content and it may assimilate content created by multiple developers to present a more integrated content structure. A client can manage many different brand item profiles messages associated with those profiles etc. all from one convenient portal. Moreover the content of the brand item profiles is not limited by the rules associated with the social media system allowing marketers to utilize any graphic design layout template they desire to create the profiles in line with their brand image subject to some SMS mandated formatting rules . These features will be illustrated with a discussion example in the following sections.

By way of example assume a marketer is a fictitious coffee company Acme Coffee and includes caf franchises in Boston and Miami and potentially other locations . The company employs administrators such as local developers B and C for the locations to generate content such as local content A and content B. As used in this example the brand category relates to franchise locations and individual brand items are the respective locations. Further as will be understood the term local in this example refers to specific locations but local is intended to represent individual brand items generally within the present disclosure. In the example assume Acme further assigns one developer group such as global developers A to manage their global corporate content C. The developers regularly update content for their respective brand item profiles on the BMS and the content is locally stored in the content database . The BMS integrates content from these brand item profiles to create integrated SMS content corresponding to the Miami and Boston cafes. This integrated content is linked or merged with global content to generate a uniform SMS experience relating to the marketer s SMS account s for SMS members as described in greater detail below.

In this example Acme Coffee creates three brand item profiles for display on its SMS account page one for their official corporate content C one for their local Boston content A and one for their Miami content B. illustrate exemplary Acme corporation s global Miami and Boston brand item profiles present on separate pages within a social media system such as Facebook . Here the content is displayed in display regions like typical Facebook pages include standard tabs pages such as a wall an information page photos etc. It will be understood that Facebook is merely used here for explanatory purposes and any other social media systems may be considered just as easily without departing from the scope of the present disclosure. Moreover it will be understood that the brand items may be associated with any number of pages tabs these tabs are however not illustrated here for simplicity. Generally a brand item profile will either be associated with a specific region or regions in a marketer s global corporate SMS page or with individual pages that are linked together with common marketer content or display regions.

In one embodiment the BMS installs an application on top of the social media system that is depicted as a new page tab on the brand item profile. This tab Acme Local for example presents users with a portal to view the brand items created by the developers using the BMS. This page may include a search interface to select a particular brand item profile. It will be understood however that any suitable name may be given to the tab page such as featured content or product line etc.

For organizations that segregate their brand items based on brand categories relating to product type divisions or branches the search interface may request that users select the desired product or branch using a similar interface such as a product locator screen . As will be understood and appreciated embodiments of the present disclosure are not limited to the specific brand categories described or shown and other brand categories are contemplated as will occur to one of ordinary skill in the art.

In another embodiment represent separate local SMS pages that correspond to individual brand items but these pages are maintained separate and apart from the marketer s global SMS page. However to ensure consistency and uniformity amongst these disparate pages the pages may display marketer defined or specific content such as common logos common display regions etc. This embodiment enables a content developer to maintain its own SMS account page but also ensures that content specific to the marketer in general is included.

Referring to either embodiment to render the integrated SMS content created via the BMS and associated with a given brand item profile on the social media system the BMS utilizes the social media system s application programming interface API to seamlessly render data on the social media system . Through the API the BMS can publish or render any BMS created content on either a local SMS page or within a predetermined display region on a global marketer page. In other words the social media system provides a background or an image rendering canvas and the BMS may render any content within that canvas without necessarily having to adhere to the social media system s predetermined template format. Because the BMS stores the brand item profiles in its own database and only renders this information on the social media system when a user requests a particular brand item marketers are not required to adhere to all of the social media system formats. Each organization can use its own templates formats graphic designs etc. to create lasting impressions on users. However as will be understood some SMS formats or requirements may be unchangeable and must remain in place. Using the BMS marketers can create either a global SMS page account with brand item profile display regions or can inject common global content into separate brand item specific SMS pages accounts

The content integration module further includes a search module for searching and extracting requested data from the content database a login module for authenticating developers and an access module for managing their access permissions. A manager integrates content from one or more developers to create integrated SMS content .

The content integration module further includes a standardizer for formatting the brand item profiles according to predefined rules and a publisher for rendering the brand item profiles on the social media system when requested.

In addition to these modules the content integration module may also include numerous other modules and applications to support and extend the capabilities of the BMS . For instance the content integration module may include a monitoring module to track activity and extract marketing metrics such as number of hits responses etc. from the social media system. Moreover the monitoring module may import user responses for the rendered brand item profiles from the social media system for analysis. The BMS may also include a preference module that monitors user preferences on the social media system and stores this information for subsequent user visits. Apart from these modules the content integration module may include numerous other modules and databases which will be described in detail in the following sections.

The publisher monitoring module and the preference module all communicate with the social media system using the social media system s application programming interface API . As shown in the social media system includes an API that enables these modules to interact seamlessly with the social media system . As is understood in the art an API is an interface that enables the software systems of the social media system to interact with the software systems of the BMS . In this way developers of a particular client can interact with the BMS system to publish content associated with their respective brand items without directly accessing the social media system . This enables more efficient and centralized management of multiple brand item profiles across social media systems. This also enables various contributors with different access levels to coordinate and contribute content to a given brand item profiles based on predetermined settings and rules not necessarily available directly through the given social media systems conventional interface.

According to one embodiment the BMS accepts developer inputs. For this purpose the BMS includes a user interface that accepts instructions from developers and forwards the instructions to the input module . The user instructions may include prompts to login to the system or other system management instructions as desired. The user interface may be a web based interface or an application that is downloadable on the developers computing device. The input module accepts user instructions and based on the type of instruction it forwards the instructions to the appropriate module. According to one aspect the user interface also enables content creation brand item profile creation and revision review and management of content and brand item profiles publishing of brand item profiles to SMS web pages or accounts and various other functions as will be understood and appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art.

In one embodiment the search module searches the content database for required content e.g. content associated with brand items with brand categories present on the content database retrieves the content and forwards it to the desired module. This module may be embodied in numerous ways. For example if the user interface renders a locator page with a list of brand item profiles to select from the search module may merely link the list of brand item profiles to the appropriate content stored in the content database . Alternatively if the locator page requires user input such as text or voice command the search module may decipher the user input and retrieve the relevant brand item profiles. For example if the locator screen that requests users enter zip codes the search module may maintain a lookup table to determine the appropriate brand item profile e.g. specific marketer franchise location for retrieval.

The login module manages developer authentication. To this end the login module renders a login screen on the user interface requesting that the developer supply authentication details such as username email address social media system credentials password etc. It will be understood that the login module may use any of the known and widely accepted login procedures known in the art. By comparing developer input information with stored developer credentials the login module grants access to the developer.

The access module is invoked once a developer accesses the system. The access module maintains a lookup table in the content database that specifies the access permissions associated with a developer. For instance a global developer C may have complete access to all marketer content including all brand item profiles e.g. local content for each marketer retail location or product specific content etc. while a local developer such as the Boston local developer for Acme coffee might have full access to the Boston brand item profile no access to the Miami brand item profile and perhaps partial access i.e. creating and edits rights but no publishing rights to the global marketing page or account on the respective SMS . These stored rights are cross checked when the developer attempts to complete any task. If the developer has permission access is granted else access is denied. In one embodiment the BMS renders a different user interface for each developer. For example only tasks for which the particular developer has permission are depicted. It will be understood that any other known access governing protocols may be implemented to manage access rights without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

The manager integrates content from various brand item profiles or developers according to predefined rules. Developers may create content such as posts advertisements quizzes photographs audio files text etc. and store this content on the content database . Based on their preferences developers may add some or all of this content to their brand item profiles. For instance developers may create content for an entire month before hand and store the content on the content database . Then using the manager developers may set certain rules such as schedule incorporation of content in the brand item profile as required.

Alternatively the developers may edit brand item profiles on the fly and save the changes. In one embodiment the profiles may have predefined placeholders defined by a global developer. Placeholders are similar to landing pages used in website creation. It will be understood that a person skilled in the art will be aware of such landing pages and placeholders and therefore these concepts are not described in detail here. Developers may then add content to the placeholders alter their placement move content around create new content for the placeholders remove old posts and so on. Alternatively the local content developers may define their own content placeholders. Moreover developers may add content to their brand item profiles from the content created by them or from the content created by the global developer or by another local developer in the BMS . For example the marketer logo may be placed on all profiles by the global developer to integrate and link together the individual SMS pages and or brand item profiles and local developers may not have permission to modify that content.

In another embodiment the global content such as advertisements quizzes announcements etc. may be created by the global developers and saved in the content database . The global developer may establish whether this content may be utilized by local developers. Local developers who have access to the content may then select the content type they wish to include in their global content placeholders. Moreover developers may automate this incorporation. For instance a local developer may create rules to incorporate any global advertisement updated by the global developer either in real time or at predefined intervals.

Based on these rules configurations and developer preferences the manager integrates content from various sources to create a brand item profile which is stored in the content database . The rules may be set either by the global developer for each brand item profile or by the local developers responsible for a particular brand item profile without departing from the scope of the present disclosure.

The standardizer ensures that content from different developers adheres to predefined rules and policies configured by the marketer or in some instances by the social media system. The global developer may configure the format such as font size text type maximum characters multimedia format brand item profile layout required icons or images required display regions and other similar details to present a consistent look and feel across all the brand item profiles. Moreover the standardizer may be configured to incorporate social media system rules such as image size text length etc. In one embodiment the standardizer may allow developers to create content and later check the content for compatibility with the predefined rules. The standardizer may subsequently prompt the developer to modify the content according to the rules automatically modify the content to comply with the rules or it may automatically insure corrections as determined by the system.

Alternatively the standardizer may simply not allow developers to create content that does not comply with the rules. For example if the character length is set to 250 characters for instance the standardizer may prevent the developer from entering text beyond 250 characters. Similarly if the standardizer is configured to prevent developers from attaching media to certain message types instead of permitting the developer to attach media and subsequently informing the developer of the media rules the standardizer may not permit the developer to attach media in the first place by either hiding or deactivating that option.

Further the standardizer may convert any URL that is embedded into the content into a shorter URL. URLs may be shortened for various reasons. For example for social media systems that impose character limits adding very long URL links could potentially exhaust valuable message characters. Those skilled in the art will understand that users are more likely to click through shorter links than longer ones. For these and other reasons the standardizer may shorten URLs to a particular format which redirects the user to the actual URL using a Meta Refresh technology. One advantage of using Meta Refresh to redirect the user to the desired URL is that the user first lands on the shortened link created by the standardizer before being redirected to the actual URL. This initial landing allows the content integration module to track the number of click throughs to a website even though the destination URL is not associated with the system. Through this tracking the BMS can gain valuable insights about user behavior brand item profile success and so on.

According to one embodiment of the present system the standardizer saves the original URL and the shortened URL in a lookup table in the content database . When a user clicks on the shortened link the user lands on the short link and after either a short interval or no interval the user is redirected to the actual URL.

The publisher receives instructions from the monitoring module to publish requested content on a selected brand item profile. Users may select a particular brand item profile such as the Boston area brand item profile for the fictitious company Acme Coffee. The publisher retrieves data associated with the brand item profile along with content details before publishing the brand item profile. Moreover if for any reason the publisher is unable to publish the content to a particular brand item profile the publisher may generate and circulate an error report to a client and or its developers . Further the publisher may be configured to retry publication for a given number of times at set intervals.

According to one embodiment the monitoring module monitors the locator screen or selection display region on the social media system. Whenever a user selects a particular brand item profile the monitoring module supplies this information to the search module . The search module retrieves the requested brand item profile and provides the profile content to the publisher which publishes it to the SMS .

The monitoring module also extracts information from member user responses to the messages posted on social media systems associated with brand item profiles to perform various analytic functions and generate metrics and reports. In one embodiment the monitoring module observes the various brand item profiles for a marketer and extracts any responses to published messages on the SMS . The overall goal of the member responses and corresponding analytics is to determine the relative success of various brand item profiles and messages and identify helpful information regarding marketing of the client s products services etc. The monitoring module may also maintain a tracker for counting useful numbers such as the number of message replies plays and the like. This information can serve as inputs to various analytical programs known to those in the art. Further the actual messages may also be extracted and stored in the content database for analysis. Users may present recommendations suggestions or interests and that may be useful for generating future marketing strategies. Reports such as interactive charts and graphs can be generated on a planned or ad hoc basis.

Moreover the monitoring module extracts performance information from the brand items as a whole or overall such as the number of fans or followers new requests and profile activity. Based on this information developers may set alerts for event notification such as a sudden change in the fan base. Moreover clients may compare performance of their brand item profiles to determine which ones are performing better than the rest and which brand item profiles generate the least activity. This information may be utilized by clients to improve their brand item profiles to assess developers to provide incentives etc.

The preference module monitors the locator screen or other similar display region rendered on the social media system . When a user selects a particular brand item from the local tab of a global SMS account or page the preference module stores the user preference along with user details in the content database . Alternatively the locator screen or the subsequent brand item profile may invite the user to configure the selected brand item as their favorite brand item. Consequently whenever a social media system user accesses the local tab of a global marketer SMS page the preference module looks up the user s credentials against a table of user credentials stored in the content database . If the details match the preference module extracts the user s previous selection and displays the selected brand item profile directly.

The content database stores information about clients their brand categories brand items within each brand category brand item profiles and their associated information such as published and unpublished content and the brand item profile metadata such as the identity of developers their access permissions and the like. The database also stores content details contributor information brand item metrics and other similar types of information. The content database may be refreshed in real time by the other modules and stale data may be purged as desired. illustrates an exemplary database schema which may store data in a relational fashion. A typical relational database includes multiple data tables that include pertinent information to which other tables can link. illustrates some exemplary tables that may be present in the content database . It will be understood however that the number of tables as well as the data fields and the relations among them may vary depending on the particular embodiment.

The schema includes a master table which catalogues the active clients . This table typically includes unique client IDs and other useful client details. It will be appreciated that other fields may also be contemplated within the scope of the present disclosure. Some exemplary data fields in the master table are client ID client name active social media systems number of active brand item profiles number of active developers etc.

The master table may be associated with one or more client tables such as client table . This table includes client specific information such active brand item profiles their unique IDs number of developers associated with each brand item profile etc. This table is associated with tables illustrating features of brand items. The content database may maintain separate brand item profile tables for the clients or it may store brand item details in one large table. Here the schema illustrates a brand item profile table caching details of active brand item profiles. Some exemplary data fields in this table include unique brand item profiles IDs profile name associated social media system date of activation last update date number of active followers brand item description a pointer linking each brand item profile ID to its corresponding content etc. A content table not shown that includes information about all content created by developers published or unpublished and active or inactive may also be present. This table stores information relating to brand item content such as unique content IDs content type content title description creation date and time publication date and time embedded URL author etc. Other data fields may also be contemplated such as count of responses likes comments shares and plays flags response messages or number of revisions etc.

In addition to these tables the content database may include other tables and data fields that the content integration module may utilize in certain embodiments. The content database for instance may include a rules table that stores information about different rules and configurations associated with each brand item profile or client such as formatting standard rules and policies adopted by the active social media system adopted by the global developer or the client. Exemplary fields of this table may be rule ID rule title rule thresholds associated alerts required content required format etc. The content database may incorporate another table that maintains information about the active developers for the brand item profiles. Typical fields in this table table may be user ID first name last name username password email address phone numbers social media profiles access permissions and other such developer related fields. Further the database may include a table that stores analytics and information relating to social media system member interaction with messages and brand item profiles such as number of responses to a message number of likes shares click throughs to linked pages etc. As will be understood and appreciated some responses to messages will include social media specific responses such as the like or share option offered by Facebook . A few exemplary fields are illustrated in table in .

It will be understood that the content database may maintain numerous other tables not illustrated here. For example a table that stores user preferred brand items and a table that stores alerts reminders and triggers for a certain brand item profile or client may be present. Similarly the content database may maintain a table for shortened URLs and their corresponding actual longer URLs. As will be understood and appreciated the specific tables and corresponding data items shown in are presented for illustrative purposes only and other types of data as will occur to one of ordinary skill in the art may be utilized according to various embodiments of the present system.

The content database may be updated in real time or on an intermittent basis. As will be further understood the specific database shown and described is intended to be illustrative only and actual embodiments of the BMS may include various database structures schemas etc.

The following sections describe exemplary methods for carrying out one or more embodiments of the present disclosure. The methodology described herein is generally intended to describe various features and functionality of various system components described previously. The order in which the methods are described is not intended to be construed as a limitation and any number of the described method steps can be combined in any order to implement the method or an alternate method. Additionally individual steps may be deleted from the methods without departing from the spirit and scope of the subject matter described herein. Furthermore the method can be implemented in any suitable hardware software firmware or the like.

A typical homepage screen for an embodiment of the BMS is shown in . From here the developer may view accessible brand item profiles add new brand item profiles disable brand item profiles modify social media system configurations etc. In addition the developer may perform actions such as add or invite developers set their access rights create content modify content preview unpublished modifications create graphs and other such management specific actions. As will be understood and appreciated the homepage acts as a starting point for managing and structuring marketing content on the marketer s SMS web pages display regions etc. Here the homepage also depicts certain operations that a local developer may not be allowed to perform such as edit a brand logo edit the locator screen graphics and modify the brand item profile template. These functions may be restricted to the global developer in some situations. Alternatively some marketers may allow their local developers to modify this content if required. To edit the brand logo developers may be requested to insert graphics using a programming language such as visual graphics or simply browse and insert a digital image. Similarly to edit he locator screen the developer may modify the locator screen s application code. Alternatively the user interface may provide a relatively simpler interface to alter the locator e.g. drop down menus icons or radio buttons to select from various colors themes images etc. 

As noted above the developer may create one or more brand item profiles programs on the BMS if he or she has access permission . According to one embodiment creation of a brand item profile simply represents the designation of basic information about the brand item such as a name duration etc. Once the particular brand item profiles are created upon authorization the developer adds or activates the brand item profiles on the BMS .

Referring again to once the desired brand item profiles are added or created at step developers may create modify content on the corresponding brand item profiles based on their access rights. In one embodiment the BMS may allow developers to create common content such as global content which is stored in the content database . Subsequently developers may retrieve the created content as required and add the content to the desired brand item profile. This way developers do not create the same content numerous times on the brand item profiles. Alternatively the developer may be allowed to create content or modify content for brand item profiles individually.

When a developer creates a new brand item profile in one embodiment the BMS prompts the developer to add modules i.e. placeholders for content within the newly created brand item profile. illustrates one such module addition screen. Here the developers can select the type of module text message image video etc. The interface may also prompt the developer to enter a module title to create the module. Once the module is created the developer may add modify content associated with that module. illustrates an exemplary content addition screen. It will be appreciated that this screen is merely exemplary and that numerous ways exist for a developer to add content. For example the developer may directly generate content without first adding modules. Alternatively for local brand item profiles the placeholders and certain global content such as global campaigns advertisements or announcements may be configured by the global developer .

Next at step the created content is standardized according to predefined rules such as those set by the client or those imposed by the social media system . As described previously social media system messages may vary based on required standards such as rules policies and formats. For example such rules or policies include character limits on messages content requirements prohibitions on certain types of multimedia content formatting issues etc. In addition to these standards clients may configure their own rules such as organization of data text format image format video format and quality quiz format advertisement format etc. For example a client marketer may dictate that although local developers may create and maintain their own SMS pages relating to their respective brand item profiles each of the SMS pages must include the marketer s logo a standard slogan and must include a common display region such as a link to the marketer s corporate website. As another example a marketer may require that each local developers brand item profile must be maintained on a singular global SMS page or account and the content associated with the brand item profiles is contained in predetermined local display regions within the global page i.e. not on separate pages . In this way rather than having many discrete and potentially widely varying SMS pages handles accounts etc. the marketer can maintain control and a common approach to all of its brand categories and associated brand item profiles.

In one embodiment once the developer enters the content the standardizer formats the content according to predefined rules. Alternatively the standardizer may set the placeholder format and present a content creation template which complies with the configured rules. This way the developer would not be able to enter unformatted content. In addition to these functions the standardizer may include typical formatting features such as checking spellings highlighting grammatical errors analyzing text to determine the tone of the content formal informal screen content for any undesirable language or content such as abusive words competitor names racist language and any other content deemed undesirable. It will be appreciated that step in is optional and may not be implemented by some brand management systems or by certain marketers. A similar method to create content and standardize it is illustrated in co pending U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 859 675 entitled Systems and Methods for Managing Marketing Programs on Multiple Social Media Systems the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference as if set forth herein.

As mentioned above illustrates an exemplary BMS template screen that enables developers or administrators to create content within the BMS for subsequent display on an SMS . Specifically the screen represents an interface to the BMS back end application that enables content creation but also ensures standardized content display for the marketer. For example in the exemplary screen shown the user interface includes a global content display region and several local content display regions . As will be understood if a local developer is accessing screen that developer may not have access rights to vary or change the global content display region . In essence by predefining content regions a marketer forces its content developers to arrange and prescribe content for their respective brand item profiles based on a uniform look and feel as compared to all other brand item profiles.

Next at step the manager integrates content from multiple developers according to predefined rules. The rules may be configured by the global developer or by any other client representative with authority. The type of rules may vary considerably from client to client. The BMS allows marketers to set their own level of granularity while creating SMS pages brand item profiles associated content etc. For example some marketers may create separate brand item profiles for each retail store while other marketers may wish to create one brand item profile corresponding to all their retail stores in a particular city or area. In this situation developers from the stores in a particular city may create content relevant to their stores. The manager integrates content created by these developers either automatically for instance by automatically placing content within predefined placeholders for each retail store or with the help of a head developer.

Other clients may set different integration rules such as incorporation of the same global data in all or few local brand item profiles updating global content every week etc. The manager is configured with the desired rules and thereafter it may automatically integrate brand item profile content. Moreover global developers may from time to time create global content which they might want incorporated in one or more local brand item profiles. The integration module based on the global developer s rules may place global data such as advertisements announcements or quizzes in the selected brand item profiles.

The content is published on the social media system based on user selection at step . As described previously the client may have a single or multiple brand item profiles. Users of the social media system may visit the client s brand item profiles. These profiles are similar to regular SMS pages present on social media systems but with integrated and common content and or common display regions etc. A brand item profile administrator the global developer updates this profile. Within these profiles users may use a separate application to view local brand item profiles. If the client includes more than one local brand item profile a locator screen present on the client s global SMS page or account greets the users . If the user in returning to the brand item profile however the preference module might have stored the user preference and the publisher may directly render the user s previously selected brand item profile without displaying the locator screen . On a user s first visit or even if a returning user wishes to view a different brand item profile the locator screen is displayed and the user may select a particular brand item profile. This selection is monitored by the monitoring module and the preference module . The monitoring module provides the selection information to the search module . This module in turn retrieves the associated brand item profile from the content database and provides it to the publisher for rendering within the given brand item profile depending on the situation. The preference module stores the user selection in the content database .

Alternatively if the user visits a local SMS page the user may not be greeted by the locator screen . Instead the publisher may directly render the corresponding brand item profile on the marketer s SMS account or page.

Referring again to at step the monitoring module may monitor the social media system for responses to the brand item profiles. The responses may be extracted and stored in the content database for analysis. The monitoring module analyzes these responses to improve marketing strategies as such responses indicate consumer interest in various products relative success of brand categories or brand items and other helpful insights. From the homepage developers may view the metrics and generate required charts reports or presentations. illustrates an exemplary metrics screen.

Systems and methods disclosed herein may be implemented in digital electronic circuitry in computer hardware firmware software or in combinations of them. Apparatus of the claimed invention can be implemented in a computer program product tangibly embodied in a machine readable storage device for execution by a programmable processor. Method steps according to the claimed invention can be performed by a programmable processor executing a program of instructions to perform functions of the claimed invention by operating based on input data and by generating output data. The claimed invention may be implemented in one or several computer programs that are executable in a programmable system which includes at least one programmable processor coupled to receive data from and transmit data to a storage system at least one input device and at least one output device respectively. Computer programs may be implemented in a high level or object oriented programming language and or in assembly or machine code. The language or code can be a compiled or interpreted language or code. Processors may include general and special purpose microprocessors. A processor receives instructions and data from memories. Storage devices suitable for tangibly embodying computer program instructions and data include forms of non volatile memory including by way of example semiconductor memory devices such as EPROM EEPROM and flash memory devices magnetic disks such as internal hard disks and removable disks magneto optical disks and Compact Disk. Any of the foregoing can be supplemented by or incorporated in ASICs application specific integrated circuits .

The foregoing description of the exemplary embodiments has been presented only for the purposes of illustration and description and is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the disclosure to the precise forms disclosed. Many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above teaching.

The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain the principles of the systems and their practical application to enable others skilled in the art to utilize the systems and various embodiments and with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. Alternative embodiments will become apparent to those skilled in the art to which the present disclosure pertains without departing from their spirit and scope. Accordingly the scope of the present disclosures is defined by the appended claims rather than the foregoing description and the exemplary embodiments described therein.

