---

title: Concentration solar power optimization system and method of using same
abstract: A system and method for optimizing at least one mirror of at least one CSP system is provided. The system has a screen for displaying light patterns for reflection by the mirror, a camera for receiving a reflection of the light patterns from the mirror, and a solar characterization tool. The solar characterization tool has a characterizing unit for determining at least one mirror parameter of the mirror based on an initial position of the camera and the screen, and a refinement unit for refining the determined parameter(s) based on an adjusted position of the camera and screen whereby the mirror is characterized. The system may also be provided with a solar alignment tool for comparing at least one mirror parameter of the mirror to a design geometry whereby an alignment error is defined, and at least one alignment unit for adjusting the mirror to reduce the alignment error.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08674280&OS=08674280&RS=08674280
owner: Sandia Corporation
number: 08674280
owner_city: Albuquerque
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100719
---
This invention was developed under Contract DE AC04 94AL85000 between Sandia Corporation and the U.S. Department of Energy. The U.S. Government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to techniques for performing solar operations. More particularly the present invention relates to techniques for optimizing solar operations by for example enhancing characterization and or alignment of Concentrating Solar Power CSP systems.

Solar technologies such as solar collectors or concentrators are often used to capture energy from the sun. Some solar collectors such as parabolic dish trough tower and or other solar power systems referred to herein as Concentrating Solar Power or CSP systems are often used to collect energy from sunlight and concentrate it for use for example for the production of electricity. CSP systems typically use one or more mirror facets reflectors heliostats or other devices referred to herein as mirrors to direct or concentrate sunlight onto a receiver. A working fluid in the receiver is heated by the sunlight and used for power generation and or storage using for example an engine or a working fluid.

The performance e.g. efficiency of the CSP system typically affects the return on investment. This performance may be affected by various factors such as the shape alignment positioning quality and other parameters of the mirrors used in the CSP system. For example the operation of the CSP system may be closely coupled to the quality of the reflective surface and deviations or errors in the slope of the mirror s surface from the design shape may impact the performance of the system e.g. power loss peak flux increases etc. 

Attempts have been made to address the impact mirrors have on system performance. Techniques have been developed for characterizing the mirror for example by determining slope error in the mirror as described for example in Charles E. Andraka et al. SOFAST Sandia Optical Fringe Analysis Slope Tool for Mirror Characterization proceedings of SolarPACES 2009 Berlin Germany Sep. 15 18 2009 or Charles E. Andraka et al Rapid Reflective Facet Characterization Using Fringe Reflection Techniques Proceedings of ES2009 San Francisco Calif. Jul. 19 23 2009 referred to herein as the SOFAST technique VSHOT Measurement Uncertainty And Sensitivity Study by Scott A. Jones referred to herein as Vshot Automated High Resolution Measurement Of Heliostat Slope Errors by Steffen Ulmer et al. Slope Measurements Of Parabolic Dish Concentrators Using Color Coded Targets by Steffen Ulmer Peter Heller Wolfgang Reinalter and Characterization Of Optical Components For Linear Fresnel Collectors By Fringe Reflection Method by Anna Heimsath et al the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference collectively referred to herein as the Characterization Techniques .

Techniques have also been developed for aligning CSP systems as described for example in U.S. Pat. No. 7 667 833 Improved Alignment Technique for Dish Concentrators by Charles E. Andraka et al. Proceedings of ISEC 2003 2003 International Solar Energy Conference Hawaii 15 18 Mar. 2003 Development And Characterization Of A Color 2f Alignment Method For The Advanced Dish Development System by Bridgette J. Steffen et al. Proceedings of ISEC 2003 2003 International Solar Energy Conference Hawaii 15 18 Mar. 2003 the entire contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference collectively referred to herein as the Alignment Techniques .

Despite the development of various solar techniques relating to CSP systems there remains a need to improve solar operations. It may be desirable to provide a system that optimizes the performance of the CSP system and or its components. Such optimization may involve enhanced characterization and or alignment of the mirror s . It may be further desirable that such optimization be performed quickly for example in real time. Preferably such techniques involve one or more of the following among others accurate measurement and or characterization estimation and refinement capabilities fast computations adjustable systems manufacturing and or maintenance capability hi speed operability portable systems real time alignment etc.

Presently preferred embodiments of the invention are shown in the above identified figures and described in detail below. Embodiments are described with reference to certain features and techniques of solar optimization systems for characterizing and or aligning mirrors and or CSP systems. As such depicted embodiments focus on advantages such as optimizing characterization and alignment using a unitary configuration capable of generating results in real time made available by the use of a solar characterization tool and or a solar alignment tool. While specific configurations of a solar optimization system are depicted with specific mirror and CSP systems other combinations and or configurations may also be used. That is the solar optimization system may be used in connection with any mirror and or mirror system. Further the solar optimization system may be used to enhance characterization by concentrating on slope characterization in a format that is tailored for solar applications and uses an electronic boresight approach to eliminate sensitivity to setup errors. Embodiments described herein are employed include the solar optimization system positionable about one or more mirrors while employing a solar characterization tool for characterizing the mirror. The embodiments may further employ a solar alignment tool positionable about one or more CSP systems for aligning one or more mirrors thereof.

Preferably the solar optimization system is configured in a manner that combines the display capture and data reduction in an integrated system. This optimized configuration is designed to allow rapid capture and data reduction. An electronic boresight approach can be used to accommodate physical equipment positioning errors making the system insensitive to setup errors. A very large number of points are determined on each facet to provide significant detail as to the location and character of the errors. While existing systems that typically resolve data to shape determination may be used the present optimized system may be used to concentrate on slope characterization and reporting in a format that is tailored to the solar applications.

The mirror may be any mirror usable with various CSP systems such as the parabolic dish trough and tower CSP systems of for example A and A respectively as will be described further herein. The mirror may be of any size and or shape such as rectangular flat curved spherical parabolic etc. usable with a desired CSP system. The mirror may be adjustably supported by platform . The platform may be a simple stand for supporting the mirror but preferably has an adjuster for automatic and or manual positioning of the mirror . An adjuster may also be provided for selectively adjusting the position of the camera and or screen as well as other components as desired. Such adjustments may be optionally be for example manual with visual verbal wireless or other feedback mechanism semi automatic in which manually installed and removed tools implement the strategy or fully automatic in which robotically installed tools perform the full adjustment.

The screen is preferably positioned a distance 2f twice the focal length of the mirror from the mirror . At this distance a small screen may be used. However some embodiments such as for heliostats for tower CSP systems may utilize a large projection screen in lieu of locating at the 2f position as will be described further herein. A support is preferably provided to hold the screen and camera in position. The screen is preferably able to display a fringe or light pattern and may be provided with a plurality of colored portions or run out areas which may be used in coarse alignment to guide the mirrors to the display screen as will be described further herein. These colored portions may be for example colored canvas or paper mounted about the screen . Preferably each of the colored portions is a different color such as red blue green and yellow. While four colored portions are provided any number of colored portions may optionally be provided if desired to enhance imaging of the mirror as will be described further herein.

As shown the solar optimization system displays a fringe pattern on the screen in preferably a sinusoidal pattern of alternating dark and light displayable at various phases on the screen . This solar characterization tool may be used to determine geometry of the mirror based on a reflection in the mirror of the fringe patterns displayed on screen . Such determined geometry may include for example a point Fxyz on the mirror a pixel location Pxyz on a camera pixel plane a lens location Cxyz of camera a mirror camera vector a mirror to target vector and a normal vector extending from the mirror . The process may be performed simultaneously for multiple points across the mirror viewed by multiple pixels across the camera pixel plane .

As shown the solar characterization tool has a database characterization unit refinement unit and transceiver . The database may be a conventional database for receiving collecting storing and or transferring for example data from the solar optimization system historical data processed data external and or internal data etc. The transceiver may be a conventional transceiver for communicating with various components of the solar optimization system and or with external sources . Various communication links may be provided for operatively connecting the solar characterization tool with the components and or external sources .

The characterization unit of the characterization tool may receive data from the database and perform calculations analyze data generate models and or otherwise process the data. The characterization unit is preferably capable of generating an image of resultant measurements for display on display . The characterization unit may perform the characterization analysis as described for example in the Characterization Techniques as previously incorporated herein by reference. The characterization unit may be integral with or coupled to a refinement unit for selective operation therewith.

The refinement unit may also be used to perform calculations analyze data generate models and or otherwise process the data. In some cases the refinement unit may perform additional calculations make new assumptions and or re perform functions performed by the characterization unit . The refinement unit may perform a refined characterization analysis as will be described further herein. The refined characterization analysis may involve performing characterization and or refinement using the characterization unit and or refinement unit preferably until convergence is achieved. Output generated by the characterization and or refinement units may be stored in database communicated via transceiver and or further processed internally and or externally to the solar characterization tool .

Various characterization techniques may be used with the solar optimization system of to characterize the mirror such as the Characterization Techniques previously incorporated by reference herein. Preferably the solar optimization system is used in connection with a fringe characterization technique for characterizing the solar optimization system using the SOFAST technique. Aspects of the other Characterization Techniques may be employed with the SOFAST technique if desired. The solar optimization system is further capable of performing additional refinement alignment and other techniques for optimizing the characterization alignment and or other performance parameters of the mirror and or CSP system used therewith as will be described further herein.

In an example using the optimization system and the solar characterization tool an output image may be displayed on display and or stored in database . To generate the images the camera images the mirror which is positioned so that it views a reflection of the screen . A series of fringe patterns are displayed on the screen while images are captured by the camera and sent to the solar characterization tool . Using the captured information the solar characterization tool can determine a reflected target location of each pixel of the mirror viewed. By mathematical transformation of the collected pixel information a surface normal vector map of the mirror can be developed. This map may then be fitted to the selected model equation and errors in the mirror from its designed shape surface normals may be characterized.

The lens of camera may be considered as a pinhole or single x y z position in space Cxyz . Each point Fxyz on the mirror can be determined through geometry and ray tracing. The pixel location Pxyz is projected through Cxyz and intersects with the parabolic surface of the mirror to determine Fxyz. Finally through the fringe analysis the return location at the screen Txyz of each pixel can be determined. Given these three points Txyz Cxyz and Fxyz the incoming and outgoing vectors may be determined at each point. The surface normal of the mirror may then be determined using a standard law of reflection.

The solar optimization system is preferably positioned such that all or most of the mirror sees the screen from the point of view of the camera . This may be accomplished by displaying a target on screen and positioning the mirror while monitoring the camera image. The screen may be any screen capable of displaying the desired images for reflection of a mirror such as an LCD monitor plasma projection screen or other surface preferably capable of displaying an all white image and grayscale fringe patterns or colored fringe patterns. As shown the screen is a dynamic or changeable screen capable of displaying images. The plurality of color screen portions extending about the screen may be fixed in color rather than active and variable. A poorer quality mirror or a mirror not located at the 2f position may require a larger screen to provide a full characterization. A multiplicity of screens placed adjacent to each other or a single moveable screen may be used to perform the function of a single large screen .

For production optimization the mirror is preferably placed in a pre determined position for example in a known arrangement or in a fixture by a robotic handler for repeatable positioning. In addition electronic boresighting may be used to analytically rotate the mirror into a reference coordinate system for modeling. Captured information may be identified for an archival library of mirror measurements.

Optionally the solar optimization system may also be applied to production optimization as will be described further with respect to for example . Basic characterization techniques such as the techniques described with respect to may be used for performing alignment techniques. The solar characterization tool may be used in conjunction with a solar alignment tool customized for the various solar applications as will be described further herein.

By way of example depict various depictions respectively that may be displayed by display of . depicts a mask defining points and or edges of a mirror that may be generated during coarse alignment. depicts an image of the mirror that may be generated during initial characterization. As shown in the image is a view or error plot of the mirror as initially measured and depicts slope errors along the mirror in the form of vectors having direction and magnitude. The general direction of the vectors indicates how the mirror is tilted relative to the measurement system. depicts an image of the mirror that may be generated during refinement. As shown in the image is a refined view or error plot of the mirror in the Mirror Coordinate System and depicts slope errors along the mirror in the form of vectors having direction and magnitude. The apparent mirror coordinate system has been aligned with the measured mirror such that the error is minimized at a point A on the mirror. depicts an image of a CSP system that may be generated during alignment. The image shows mirror with vectors for total tilt error and for proposed adjustments to remove the measured tilt each vector having a given length indicating magnitude and direction for alignment. Adjustable mounts are provided on the mirrors for adjusting the mirror according to the vectors and . The methods used to generate each of these images will be described further herein.

The solar optimization system of may be similar to the solar optimization system except that the support is a mobile system positionable on a mobile platform for selectively positioning the screen and camera in a desired position relative to the CSP system . The mobile platform may be for example a truck for positioning the optimization system at a desired position about the parabolic dish CSP system such as at a 2f distance from the CSP system .

The display solar characterizing tool and solar alignment tool of the solar optimization system may be operatively connected to the CSP system for operation therewith. Preferably solar alignment tool is provided for implementing a desired aligned position and selectively adjusting the CSP system and or its mirror s to implement alignment of the CSP system to the aligned position as determined by the characterization system . The controller may be configured to operate adjusters to automatically reposition the parabolic dish CSP system and or the mirrors therein. A lift may also be provided to allow an operator not shown to be positioned about the parabolic dish CSP system for making manual or semi automatic adjustments thereto with feedback communication from controller preferably in real time or after characterization. As adjustments are made characterization may be repeated and the alignment refined.

The solar characterization tool may be the same as in . The solar alignment tool has a database alignment unit controller and transceiver . The database and transceiver may be the same as those of the solar characterization tool of except that they are operatively connected to the alignment unit and controller for operation therewith. The alignment unit may receive data from the database and perform calculations analyze data generate models and or other wise process the data. The alignment unit is preferably capable of generating images for display on display . The alignment unit may perform an alignment analysis as will be described further herein. The alignment unit may be integral with or coupled to the solar characterization tool and its components for selective operation therewith.

In some cases the alignment unit may perform additional calculations make new assumptions and or re perform functions performed by the characterization unit and or refinement unit of the solar characterization tool . The alignment analysis may involve performing characterization refinement and or alignment using the characterization unit refinement unit and or alignment unit preferably until convergence is achieved. Output generated by the characterization refinement and or alignment units may be stored in database communicated via transceiver and or further processed internally and or externally to the solar characterization tool and or alignment tool . Preferably the operation of the tools and are integrated for synergistic operation.

The controller may be operatively connected to various components of the solar optimization system and or external sources for passing signals therebetween. The controller may communicate via transceiver or be coupled thereto. The controller is preferably capable of sending command signals to the CSP system and or associated tools such as adjuster lift or other components for activation thereof. Preferably the controller receives commands from the solar alignment tool indicating adjustments to be made to the one or more mirrors CSP system and or solar alignment tool . Automatic adjustments may be made by the controller for activating the adjustor s if available. Manual adjustments may be made by operators receiving instructions from the controller and or solar alignment tool .

Preferably the controller is able to adjust the mirrors and or CSP system to optimize the performance of the CSP system and or the power generated thereby. The controller may also be used to adjust the performance of the solar optimization system to adjust for example the camera screen fringe pattern or other components thereof. The data collection analysis display and or other functions may also be adjusted by the controller .

As shown the mirror base with the mirrors thereon is placed on the platform . Preferably the platform is mobile for placing the CSP system in a desired position for optimization. As shown the CSP system is positioned on the platform in a supine position for transport and ready access to adjustable mounts on the back of the mirror support . The CSP system is positionable below the optimization system with the CSP system mirrors generally pointing upward and with the fiducial and engine mount in a vertical position above the dish. The screen and camera of the optimization system are preferably also positioned above the mirrors at a distance of about 2f and mounted preferentially together on a bracket . Optionally the screen may be an LCD screen or a projection screen with a front or rear projector as shown.

The solar alignment tool of is preferably configured to define adjustments for the mirrors and or CSP system to optimize performance of the CSP system . In some cases one or more mirrors and or the adjustable mounts supporting one or more mirrors on mirror base may be adjusted to improve the performance of the CSP system . Other portions of the CSP systems such as the engine mount mirror base and or others may be adjusted to enhance the power generated thereby. One or more adjustable mounts holding mirrors in place on the mirror support may be selectively tightened loosened or otherwise adjusted. These adjustments preferably alter the position and or shape of the mirror and therefore the ability of the mirror to direct light accurately. These and or other adjustments may be made automatically by actuators e.g. adjustor or manually using hand tools with feedback communication.

The mobile solar optimization system of may be similar to the solar optimization system except that the screen and camera are positionable on a transport for selectively positioning in a desired position relative to the CSP system . The transport may be for example a wheeled cart for positioning the optimization system at a desired position about the trough CSP system such as at a 2f distance from the CSP system and preferably may also be able to translate the optimization along the length of the CSP system during an alignment or characterization process. The optimization system may also be provided with the solar characterizing tool the solar alignment tool the controller and or the lift see e.g. . The mobility of the optimization system allows positioning of the system along the length of the trough CSP system to perform alignment of each mirror section or group.

The display solar characterizing tool and solar alignment tool of the solar optimization system may be operatively connected to the CSP system for operation therewith. Preferably solar alignment tool is provided for determining a desired aligned position and selectively adjusting the CSP system and or its mirror s to the aligned position. A controller may be configured to operate adjusters to automatically reposition the parabolic dish CSP system and or the mirrors therein. A lift may also be provided to allow an operator not shown to be positioned about the parabolic dish CSP system for making manual adjustments thereto.

Optionally the camera may be positioned near the screen and or the screen may be positioned near the camera . Preferably the camera and screen are positioned at the 2f position of the CSP system . In some cases the length of screen may exceed the length of the trough of the CSP system to facilitate characterization and or alignment of the entire trough with a single camera . Multiple cameras may also be positioned about the CSP system and screen such that every mirror of the trough reflects the screen to at least one of the cameras.

The solar optimization system of may be similar to the solar optimization system except that the screen and camera are positionable on tower . Preferably the screen camera and or other components are temporarily mounted to the tower . Projector may be positioned on frame for displaying the fringe images on the screen . The optimization system may also be provided with the solar characterizing tool the solar alignment tool the controller and or the lift see e.g. .

The display solar characterizing tool and solar alignment tool of the solar optimization system may be operatively connected to the CSP system for operation therewith. Preferably solar alignment tool is provided for determining a desired aligned position and selectively adjusting the CSP system and or its mirror s to the aligned position. A controller may be configured to operate adjusters to automatically reposition the heliostat of the tower CSP system and or the mirrors therein. A lift may also be provided to allow an operator not shown to be positioned about the tower CSP tower system for making manual adjustments thereto.

As shown the mirror base with the mirrors thereon is placed on the mobile platform . Preferably the mobile platform is mobile for placing the CSP system in a desired position for optimization. As shown the CSP system is positioned on the mobile platform in a supine position for transport and alignment. The screen and camera of the optimization system are preferably also mounted above the mirrors via bracket at a convenient distance. One or more heliostats and or mirrors of one or more CSP systems may be optimized in the optimization system . By optimizing each of the heliostats and the mirrors therein the entire CSP system is preferably aligned using a consistent setup. In addition the mirrors may be aligned in a controlled environment with easy access to the adjustable mounts facilitating rapid alignment in a production environment.

While depict various solar optimization systems in various configurations for characterization and or alignment of specific CSP systems it will be appreciated by one of skill in the art that components and or configurations may be selected for use in performing a desired alignment. For example the mobile platform may be used with any of the systems and an adjuster may be operatively connected to various components of any of the CSP systems. Controllers and or adjustment mechanisms may be positioned about the CSP systems to make any adjustments necessary to optimize the operation of the CSP system.

The method involves setting up the solar optimization system or e.g. system of about at least one mirror using for example the configurations of . The setup of the solar optimization system is positioned according to initial setup parameters. This setup may involve calibrations or other checks of the system to verify proper operation. The operation of the system involves displaying light patterns for reflection by the mirror and receiving a reflection of the light patterns from the mirror.

Once the solar optimization system is in position about the mirror key points of the mirror such as corner points and edges therebetween may be determined . These key points may be used to generate a mask depiction e.g. as shown for example in . This image masking process may be used to locate the key points of the mirror such as the edges corners or other key features and define an outline for the mirror. In some cases it may be useful to cycle lighting and the screen to light and dark images preferably in all black or white capturing the reflected images with the camera for the purpose of defining key mirror locations. It may also be useful to difference the image to create a mask of active pixels preferably of the entire CSP system or of the single mirror being characterized. The key feature location may be performed for each mirror in the CSP system using conventional edge finding and feature finding algorithms applied to the mask generated or to individual images.

An initial or fringe characterization may also be performed using a Characterization Technique such as the SOFAST technique. The initial characterization may use initial setup parameters such as the points Pxyz Cxyz Fxyz Txyz and vectors and as shown in . By repeating this process or processing in a parallel manner and determining these parameters over the entire mirror the shape of the mirror may be determined on convergence of the calculations. The initial characterization may be performed in conjunction with the key point determination step . During characterization depiction of the mirror may be provided as shown in .

In an example using the SOFAST technique to perform an initial characterization the grayscale fringe patterns are displayed on the screen . The setup is preferably calibrated and the edges of the mirror may be defined to provide the mask depiction as shown in . The edges corners and other key features thus determined may be used to perform a photogrammetric analysis to approximately locate the camera and screen in the Mirror Coordinate System. Data is then collected and then reduced to provide the depiction or initial characterization as shown in . The image may use color and or vectors to depict error of the depiction from the designed mirror shape. The depiction is a characterization of the mirror that may be generated using the characterizing unit of the characterizing of .

Data may be reduced by using assumed coordinates of the solar optimization system . A design mirror model is also supplied for the mirror . A measured mirror model is based at least in part on a fitted polynomial or parabolic equation such as the following Equation 1 where each of the variables of the fitted polynomial are constant terms based on data generated from the measured shape of the mirror. In a given example x y z are Cartesian coordinates A B are the f in each direction f is the focal length of the mirror C is the rotation of the astigmatism of the mirror D E are tilt of the mirror and F is the position of the mirror. When the mirror is not a complete shape of rotation parabola of rotation in this case but a slice of such term C can also be interpreted as the progressive twist of the mirror. Other fitting equations may be used to characterize the measured data and the method is not limited to parabolic mirrors and assemblies.

By using the geometry determined by the solar optimization system surface slope s at each point on the mirror may be determined. The calculations may be repeated until convergence is achieved. Output provided by the calculations and analysis may be for example models of the mirror shape and slopes the measured surface normal at each pixel residual slope errors among others. These outputs may be further analyzed to provide for example the depiction of .

The initial characterization may be refined to generate a refined mirror depiction as shown in . As shown in the mirror is positioned a distance preferably 2f from the camera and screen . Refinement may involve repeating the steps used in the initial characterization with new assumptions. For example the setup parameters or assumed location of one or more of the points Pxyz Cxyz Fxyz and or vectors and as shown in may be adjusted.

Refinement based on new assumptions e.g. adjusted setup parameters may be performed by defining points in the Mirror Coordinate System as shown in . A point Cr is defined as the combined camera screen position i.e. camera screen position Cr . By analysis an adjusted camera screen position is defined at a point Tr. The refined mirror depiction may be a refined mirror shape and orientation generated by calculating the adjusted camera screen position Tr. This refinement is an analytical refinement involving the alignment of a single alignment point Ar on the fitted mirror shape to the design mirror shape. Distance radius R may be determined for example by careful measurement e.g. by laser distance finder tape measure or other means from point Dr at the center of the mirror. In some cases Ar and Dr may be the same point.

Refinement may also involve alignment of an average surface normal a weighted average surface normal or other approaches. As shown in is a design surface normal at point Ar. is a fitted curve surface normal at point Ar that may be calculated using various methods such as average normal vector e.g. by an average of all the normals on the mirror or a weighted average e.g. normal vectors toward the outer edge may be considered more important and thus a higher weighting value may also be calculated using a baseline method involving putting the location of Ar into the derivatives of Equation 1 the fitted polynomial equation above or by a fitting function used to generate a single normal at point Ar that represents the whole mirror . Preferably the selected refinement technique involves aligning the camera screen position Cr analytically based on acquired slope data thereby aligning the mirror to an apparent coordinate system such as the Mirror Coordinate System for further analysis with for example a ray tracing or other optical analysis code.

The refinement process may involve fitting the mirror to the polynomial Equation 1 above . Preferably the constant terms of the polynomial are set such that the observed alignment point Ar matches the corresponding design alignment point Dr. This point may be a key point for example inner mirror mount location or a line between pieces of glass on the mirror assembly that matches a position of the design mirror.

An analytical sphere S may be developed around the measured mirror point Dr having a measured radius R to the camera screen assembly. The radius of this sphere is preferably equal to R. The camera screen position may then be located analytically at point Cr by for example projecting a design normal vector to intersect the sphere S. Initial camera rotations may be defined by extrinsic photogrameteric analysis. The intersection of the fitted normal with the plane of the screen extended as needed beyond the physical extent of the screen may be located to find a target location Tr.

The camera screen position Cr may be analytically translated and rotated 680 from Cr to Tr thereby placing the camera screen in a measured Mirror Coordinate System preferably while maintaining alignment of pixels observed at point Ar. A vector that represents a measured tilt of the mirror may be calculated in the Mirror Coordinate System. This calculation may involve for example calculating the normal vector of the fitted curve at a key location calculating an averaged normal vector calculating a weighted average normal vector and or other methods for determining a representative vector based on measured data. The intersection of the fitted normal with a target plane may also be calculated . This becomes the measured location of the camera screen Tr. This position may also be rotated from to and the position translated from design location Ar to target location Tr.

Steps of the refinement process may be selectively repeated until acceptable convergence is achieved. With the new geometry provided by the refinement the characterization and refinement steps may be repeated in combination until convergence is reached . The results may then be displayed as shown for example as the depiction or refined characterization of . This process results in the measured slope error being near zero at or near the selected alignment point Ar as depicted in . The data generated during the method may also be used for further analysis and or generating reports.

The method may involve setting up the solar optimization system about the CSP system . The same setup used in the setup for method of may be used with the addition of the alignment tool as shown with for example the mirrors of the CSP systems of . The setup views one or more mirrors mounted on a CSP system . Preferentially the setup views the entire CSP system at one time in order to minimize relative alignment errors. Various tools such as adjusters of may be positioned about the CSP system to permit adjustment thereto.

The key points of the mirror s may be determined in the same manner as previously described for step of . As shown in the image masking process may be performed to locate edges corners and other key features of one or more mirrors. Preferably an outline for each mirror of the CSP System is generated see e.g. of . In some cases it may be useful to cycle lighting and the screen to light and dark images preferably in all black or white capturing the reflected images with the camera for the purpose of defining key points of the mirror . It may also be useful to difference the image to create a mask of active pixels preferably of the entire CSP system . The key feature location may be performed for each mirror in the CSP system using conventional edge finding and feature finding algorithms.

Preferably a coarse alignment is performed to initially place the mirrors of the CSP system in an operable position. This coarse alignment may be performed using the white screen and colored screen portions . The coarse alignment may involve imaging the CSP system by illuminating the colored portions around the white target screen to reflect color from the colored portions . The CSP system may be imaged and then the pixels are parsed based on the mirror edges and corners found in and the color of the pixel which is the reflected color from color portions and screen . The number of pixels of each color and on each mirror is counted to determine the general location to which the mirror reflection is pointed.

An initial adjustment may be performed by selectively adjusting the mirrors according to a majority of pixel colors reflected by the mirrors. Mirrors are selectively moved to reflect the active screen based on the color reflections of the mirrors . Preferably the coarse adjustments to the CSP system are made such that a majority of white reflected from active screen is depicted on each mirror of the CSP system . This movement may be performed automatically by a controller e.g. controller of or manually by an operator. Alternatively sequencing of lights illuminating the various color portions or non colored portions and taking multiple images with camera could replace the use of a color camera with a grayscale camera.

The method may further involve performing an initial characterization to determine the camera screen and as a unit position Ca in a CSP Coordinate System . This initial characterization may be the same as the initial characterization of . In an example the initial characterization may involve for example displaying white and black images on the target screen to image the CSP System . The image may be differenced to find active pixels. Markers such as key features on the mirror and fiducials marking key points on the structure may establish known positions on the CSP system. An extrinsic analysis e.g. photogrammetry may be performed using design locations of found points to identify the camera screen and or to generate markers e.g. edges corner points etc. in the CSP Coordinate System . The camera screen location Ca depicted as Xcsp but may also include Xcsp Ycsp Zcsp in the CSP Coordinate System may be refined or confirmed through physical measurement to supplement the photogrammetry techniques.

With the initial characterization of the mirrors in the CSP system completed a fine alignment of each of the mirrors in the CSP system may be performed . This fine alignment preferably adjusts or tilts the mirror s and or CSP system to match a given alignment strategy. The measured geometry of the components of the solar alignment system may differ from a design or ideal geometry. This difference or alignment error may include for example slope tilt or position error of one or more mirrors. The alignment error may also include for example differences between the measured and design positions of various components of the solar optimization system .

The fine alignment may involve for example calculating camera screen position Ca depicted as Xmcs but may also include Xmcs Ymcs and Zmcs in the individual Mirror Coordinate Systems based on the pre determined alignment strategy intersecting camera pixel rays with a design parabola to get xyz coordinates of the mirror surface viewed by each pixel calculating surface normals at each pixel location calculating error vector by comparing with a design normal at each pixel location calculating total error and calculating adjustments needed to minimize error see also . As shown in the vectors and extend from the mirror with an angle therebetween.

Steps and may be performed for example using the SOFAST Technique for each mirror . The calculating may involve refining the surface shape based on fit and iterating until convergence is achieved. The steps and may be reversed in sequence in some embodiments such that a representative single vector is determined first and this single vector is compared to design to determine alignment error rather than summing individual errors.

Total alignment error may be determined for each mirror using an error method such as vector average error across the mirror weighted average error across the mirror fitted curve or normal at specific alignment point or other conventional fitting techniques. Once the measured geometry positions and rotations of the mirrors and structures are calculated they may be compared with the design geometry to generate the alignment error. One or more of the mirrors of the CSP system may be adjusted based on the calculated adjustments. The fine alignment process may be repeated until the alignment error is optimized or reduced to a desired level .

Once the desired alignment strategy is achieved one or more mirrors may be locked into a final position and any alignment tools removed. In cases where alignment is performed in the field the solar optimization system may be removed and relocated to another CSP system for optimization thereof. In cases where the CSP system has a tower the solar optimization system may be positioned about one or more heliostats to provide optimization to the entire system as in . Alternatively the optimization system may be assembled to the tower and used to selectively align one or more heliostats in the field as in . In cases where alignment is performed in a facility the CSP system may be transported from the facility and to the field for usage as shown in . B and C show that a similar alignment may be performed in a facility or in the field. Similar variations can be used in the case of towers and trough CSP systems examples of which are displayed in but such examples are not an exhaustive list of variations.

The method as described in uses an alignment strategy implemented by placing the camera into the aligned Mirror Coordinate System based on the given strategy and then working out the mirror tilt errors within the Mirror Coordinate System . Alternatively the design condition could also be designated in the CSP Coordinate System or any convenient coordinate system and the error calculated and implemented with the CSP Coordinate System or convenient coordinate system. Other techniques may be employed that use the characterization of all mirrors on the CSP System to implement an alignment of the CSP system.

While the optimization methods described with respect to may disclose methods using specific geometry in specific coordinate systems such as a Mirror Coordinate System and a CSP Coordinate System it will be appreciated that the measured and design surface shape and normals may be placed into any convenient coordinate system for comparison purposes. Analytically placing the camera screen position into a Mirror Coordinate System of an aligned mirror may be a convenient approach.

The solar optimization methods and may be used with any measurable mirror and or reflective system such as those depicted. Controllers adjusters and or other conventional tools such as those described herein may be used in connection with the solar optimization systems mirrors and or CSP systems to make desired adjustments and or movements in response to commands generated and or results determined by the solar optimization systems.

The solar characterization and alignment tools may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects. Embodiments may take the form of a computer program embodied in any medium having computer usable program code embodied in the medium. The embodiments may be provided as a computer program product or software that may include a machine readable medium having stored thereon instructions which may be used to program a computer system or other electronic device s to perform a process.

A machine readable medium includes any mechanism for storing or transmitting information in a form such as software processing application readable by a machine such as a computer . The machine readable medium may include but is not limited to magnetic storage medium e.g. floppy diskette optical storage medium e.g. CD ROM magneto optical storage medium read only memory ROM random access memory RAM erasable programmable memory e.g. EPROM and EEPROM flash memory or other types of medium suitable for storing electronic instructions. Embodiments may further be embodied in an electrical optical acoustical or other form of propagated signal e.g. carrier waves infrared signals digital signals etc. or wireline wireless or other communications medium. Further it should be appreciated that the embodiments may take the form of hand calculations and or operator comparisons. To this end the operator and or engineer s may receive manipulate catalog and store the data from the systems tools and or units in order to perform tasks depicted in the solar optimization systems described herein.

It will be understood from the foregoing description that various modifications and changes may be made in the preferred and alternative embodiments of the present invention without departing from its true spirit. For example the solar optimization tools described herein may have one or more solar characterization alignment and or other systems in separate or unitary configurations.

This description is intended for purposes of illustration only and should not be construed in a limiting sense. The scope of this invention should be determined only by the language of the claims that follow. The term comprising within the claims is intended to mean including at least such that the recited listing of elements in a claim are an open group. A an and other singular terms are intended to include the plural forms thereof unless specifically excluded.

