---

title: Methods for treating restenosis
abstract: Restenosis in a subject can be treated by administering to a tissue, e.g., a blood vessel, of the subject an agent that increases SERCA activity. For example, a stent that is coated with the agent can be introduced into a blood vessel.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08133878&OS=08133878&RS=08133878
owner: The General Hospital Corporation
number: 08133878
owner_city: Boston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101122
---
This application is a division of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 982 883 filed Nov. 6 2007 abandoned which is a division of U.S. application Ser. No. 10 933 807 filed Sep. 3 2004 now issued as U.S. Pat. No. 7 291 604 which claims priority to U.S. provisional application Ser. No. 610 499 705 filed Sep. 3 2003. The entire contents of the aforementioned patent applications are hereby incorporated by reference herein in their entireties.

Coronary artery disease CAD is the leading cause of mortality and morbidity in the developed world. CAD is widely treated by implantation of stents e.g. balloon stents in the coronary artery. In stent restenosis the recurrence of constriction of an artery following efforts to dilate it is a common side effect affecting 20 to 40 of patients by 6 months after percutaneous coronary interventions PCI with neointimal hyperplasia being the primary cause.

Rapamycin sirolimus an antibiotic that inhibits cell migration and proliferation is effective in reducing restenosis. However prolonged exposure of smooth muscle cells to rapamycin results in the development of resistance to the drug Luo et al. 1996 Mol. Cell. Biol. 16 6744 6751 .

We have discovered inter alia that expression e.g. overexpression of sarcoplasmic reticulum SR Ca ATPase SERCA inhibits vascular smooth muscle cell VSMC proliferation in vitro and reduces restenosis in vivo.

Accordingly in one aspect the disclosure features a method of treating restenosis in a subject e.g. a human. The method includes a identifying a subject in need of treatment for restenosis e.g. a subject who has had angioplasty or a subject who has had a stent placed in a body cavity such as a blood vessel and administering to a tissue e.g. a blood vessel of the subject an agent that increases SERCA activity in an amount sufficient to reduce or prevent restenosis in the subject. In a preferred embodiment SERCA is SERCA1 e.g. SERCA1a or SERCA1b SERCA2 e.g. SERCA2a or SERCA2b or SERCA3 but preferably SERCA2a. The agent may also be administered in an amount effective to prevent endothelial cell proliferation or neointima formation.

The agent can be e.g. a SERCA polypeptide or a functional fragment variant or analog thereof having a SERCA activity e.g. ATPase activity a peptide or protein agonist of SERCA that increases the activity e.g. the ATPase activity of SERCA e.g. by increasing or stabilizing binding of SERCA to a binding partner e.g. phospholamban a small molecule that increases expression of SERCA e.g. by binding to the promoter region of the SERCA gene an antibody e.g. an antibody e.g. an intrabody that binds to and stabilizes or assists the binding of SERCA to a SERCA binding partner e.g. a SERCA binding partner described herein or a nucleotide sequence encoding a SERCA polypeptide or functional fragment or analog thereof. The nucleotide sequence can be a genomic sequence or a cDNA sequence. The nucleotide sequence can include a SERCA coding region a promoter sequence e.g. a promoter sequence from a SERCA gene or from another gene an enhancer sequence untranslated regulatory sequences e.g. a 5 untranslated region UTR e.g. a 5 UTR from a SERCA gene or from another gene a 3 UTR e.g. a 3 UTR from a SERCA gene or from another gene a polyadenylation site an insulator sequence. In another embodiment the level of SERCA protein is increased by increasing the level of expression of an endogenous SERCA gene e.g. by increasing transcription of the SERCA gene or increasing SERCA mRNA stability. In a preferred embodiment transcription of the SERCA gene is increased by altering the regulatory sequence of the endogenous SERCA gene e.g. by the addition of a positive regulatory element such as an enhancer or a DNA binding site for a transcriptional activator the deletion of a negative regulatory element such as a DNA binding site for a transcriptional repressor and or replacement of the endogenous regulatory sequence or elements therein with that of another gene thereby allowing the coding region of the SERCA gene to be transcribed more efficiently.

In a preferred embodiment the agent is a vector that includes a nucleic acid encoding SERCA e.g. SERCA1 e.g. SERCA1a or SERCA1b SERCA2 e.g. SERCA2a or SERCA2b or SERCA3 preferably a human SERCA. The vector can be any vector suitable for gene transfer. For example the vector can be an adenoviral vector e.g. recombinant type 2 or type 5 adenoviral vector an adeno associated virus e.g. adeno associated virus type 1 2 3 4 5 or 6 a lentiviral vector or plasmid based vector. The vector is preferably an adeno associated virus based vector or a lentivirus. Other vectors suitable for gene transfer e.g. to cardiovascular tissue are known in the art.

In a preferred embodiment the SERCA encoding nucleic acid is under the control of a heterologous regulatory region e.g. a heterologous promoter. The promoter can be e.g. a smooth muscle specific promoter such as a smooth muscle alpha actin promoter SM22a promoter cardiac specific promoter such as a cardiac myosin promoter e.g. a cardiac myosin light chain 2v promoter troponin T promoter or BNP promoter. The promoter can also be e.g. a viral promoter such as CMV promoter. The promoter can be an inducible promoter e.g. one regulatable by an exogenous agent e.g. FK506 FK1012 a steroid or tetracycline.

The agent can be delivered by direct administration e.g. injection e.g. intra arterial iv or im . In one embodiment the agent is delivered directly to an affected vessel e.g. artery. The agent can be coupled to a second agent e.g. a delivery agent e.g. an agent that protects the agent from degradation or a targeting agent e.g. for targeting to the vessel or targeting to the inside of a cell such as a smooth muscle cell e.g. a liposome .

In a preferred embodiment the subject is a human e.g. a male or female human. For example the human can be between 20 40 years of age 40 60 years of age or 60 70 years of age or greater than 70 years of age. In some embodiments the subject is identified by evaluation of the subject s health history conducting a physical examination or by performing clinical testing. A preferred subject is one who has undergone or will undergo e.g. within 1 2 3 5 10 15 30 or more days angioplasty balloon angioplasty insertion of a prosthesis insertion of a graft insertion of a stent catheterization or arterial blockage evaluation. In one embodiment the restenosis occurs after angioplasty. In another embodiment the restenosis occurs after vascular stent placement. The blood vessel is preferably a coronary artery and can also be for example a peripheral artery or a cerebral artery.

In a preferred embodiment the method includes implanting a stent in an afflicted blood vessel of the subject wherein the stent is coated with or contains the agent that increases SERCA activity e.g. an agent described herein. In a preferred embodiment the method includes implanting in a blood vessel of the subject a stent coated with or containing SERCA2a or an expression vector that includes a SERCA2a encoding nucleic acid.

In another embodiment the agent is an agent that decreases phospholamban activity. An agent that inhibits phospholamban levels and or activity can be one or more of a phospholamban binding protein e.g. a soluble phospholamban binding protein that binds and inhibits a phospholamban activity e.g. SERCA2 binding activity an antibody that specifically binds to the phospholamban protein e.g. an antibody that disrupts phospholamban s ability to bind SERCA a mutated inactive phospholamban or fragment thereof which e.g. binds to a phospholamban binding partner e.g. SERCA but disrupts a phospholamban activity a phospholamban nucleic acid molecule that can bind to a cellular phospholamban nucleic acid sequence e.g. mRNA and inhibit expression of the protein e.g. an antisense molecule phospholamban ribozyme or iRNA agent an agent which decreases phospholamban gene expression e.g. a small molecule which binds the promoter of phospholamban and decreases phospholamban gene expression. In another preferred embodiment phospholamban is inhibited by decreasing the level of expression of an endogenous phospholamban gene e.g. by decreasing transcription of the phospholamban gene. In a preferred embodiment transcription of the phospholamban gene can be decreased by altering the regulatory sequences of the endogenous phospholamban gene e.g. by the addition of a negative regulatory sequence such as a DNA biding site for a transcriptional repressor or by the removal of a positive regulatory sequence such as an enhancer or a DNA binding site for a transcriptional activator activity e.g. antisense nucleic acid at least partially complementary to a phospholamban DNA sequence preferably a human phospholamban DNA sequence.

In one embodiment the method includes preconditioning the heart of the subject and delivering the agent into a cardiovascular cell of the preconditioned heart wherein the flow of blood through the heart is reduced during the delivery of the agent. In a preferred embodiment the agent is a nucleic acid e.g. a SERCA2a encoding nucleic acid administered into a vessel of the preconditioned heart wherein the flow of blood through the heart is reduced during the delivery of the agent. In a preferred embodiment preconditioning is accomplished using a catheter e.g. a balloon catheter. Preconditioning refers to a naturally occurring protective mechanism by which a brief period of ischemia protects a tissue against adverse effects of a subsequent prolonged period of ischemia. In the context of this method preconditioning means inducing a state in which the heart is more resistant to damage from a second stoppage of flow. Preconditioning the heart muscle can be accomplished by a brief occlusion of a cardiac vessel e.g. the left anterior descending artery resulting in substantially increased expression of a gene subsequently transduced into the heart muscle. Preconditioning in the present method can be induced with a pharmacological agent a mechanical manipulation e.g. a catheter e.g. a balloon catheter or other surgical method.

In a preferred embodiment the method includes evaluating the subject for a cardiovascular parameter e.g. lumen loss heart rate heart contractility ventricular function e.g. left ventricular end diastolic pressure LVEDP left ventricular systolic pressure LVSP Ca metabolism e.g. intracellular Ca concentration or peak or resting Ca force generation relaxation and pressure of the heart a force frequency relationship cardiocyte survival or apoptosis or ion channel activity e.g. sodium calcium exchange sodium channel activity calcium channel activity sodium potassium ATPase pump activity activity of myosin heavy chain troponin I troponin C troponin T tropomyosin actin myosin light chain kinase myosin light chain 1 myosin light chain 2 or myosin light chain 3 IGF 1 receptor PI3 kinase AKT kinase sodium calcium exchanger calcium channel L and T calsequestrin or calreticulin. The evaluation can include performing angiography e.g. quantitative angiography and or intravascular ultrasound IVUS e.g. before after or during the treatment.

In a preferred embodiment a pharmaceutical composition including one or more of the agents described herein is administered in a pharmaceutically effective dose.

In a preferred embodiment the administration of an agent which increases SERCA expression levels or activity can be initiated when the subject begins to show signs of restenosis e.g. as evidenced by an decrease of more than 5 10 20 or 30 in lumen when a coronary vascular condition is diagnosed at the time a treatment for a coronary vascular condition is begun or begins to exert its effects e.g. during surgery to implant a stent or generally as is needed to maintain heart function.

The period over which the agent is administered or the period over which clinically effective levels are maintained in the subject can be long term e.g. for six months or more or a year or more or short term e.g. for less than a year six months one month two weeks or less. Although an agent can be administered in a short term or once expression of a nucleic acid in the agent can be sustained e.g. for at least one two three four or six months. Promoters can be selected that are inducible e.g. to limit or prolong the period of expression.

In another aspect the disclosure features a stent coated with or containing an agent that can increase SERCA expression e.g. an agent described herein. For example the agent is a nucleic acid. The nucleic acid can be packaged in a viral or non viral particle. The stent can include e.g. at least 1 10 1 10 1 10 1 10 1 10 1 10 1 10 or 1 10units e.g. particles or for example between 1 10to 1 10or 1 10to 1 10.

In a preferred embodiment the agent is a nucleic acid encoding SERCA e.g. SERCA1 e.g. SERCA1a or SERCA1b SERCA2 e.g. SERCA2a or SERCA2b or SERCA3. In a preferred embodiment the SERCA encoding nucleic acid is under the control of a heterologous regulatory region e.g. a heterologous promoter. The promoter can be e.g. a smooth muscle specific promoter such as a smooth muscle alpha actin promoter SM22a promoter cardiac specific promoter such as a cardiac myosin promoter e.g. a cardiac myosin light chain 2v promoter troponin T promoter or BNP promoter. The promoter can also be e.g. a viral promoter such as CMV promoter.

In another embodiment the agent is an antisense nucleic acid at least partially complementary to a phospholamban DNA sequence preferably a human phospholamban DNA sequence.

Although a stent described herein is preferably for use in a blood vessel it can also be used in other tissues such as those forming a cavity orifice or duct in which restenosis can occur. Causes of such restenosis include for example organ transplantation.

In some embodiments a stent described herein in addition to being coated with or containing an agent that increases SERCA expression can also be coated with a second therapeutic agent. For example the stent can also contain one or more of rapamycin taxol and actinomycin D.

In another aspect the disclosure features a kit. The kit includes a an agent that increases SERCA e.g. SERCA2a activity e.g. SERCA a nucleic acid encoding SERCA or an antisense nucleic acid at least partially complementary to a phospholamban nucleic acid and b informational material relating to restenosis. Optionally the kit includes a stent containing or coated with the agent. The informational material can include instructions for using the kit to prevent or treat restenosis.

In another aspect the disclosure features a stent that includes an antibody e.g. a full length antibody or an antibody fragment e.g. a Fab Fc scFv etc . The antibody binds to a coat protein of a viral particle e.g. a viral particle described herein. The stent can be used to deliver viral particles that contain any nucleic acid of interest e.g. a therapeutic nucleic acid e.g. a nucleic acid described herein. For example the antibody can have an antigen binding site that interacts with a coat protein of an adenovirus or an adeno associated virus or a lentivirus e.g. a retrovirus.

As used herein a stent is a medical device configured for implantation in a body lumen to prevent or inhibit the closing of the lumen. A stent can be configured to be implanted in e.g. a blood vessel such as an artery or other body cavity orifice or duct such as a ureter. A stent is typically made of biocompatible metal or plastic.

As used herein a stent coated with or containing an agent means a stent having the agent either affixed to its surface or contained within it so as to permit release of the agent from the stent and hence delivery of the agent to tissue in proximity with the stent. A stent can also include a slow release formulation of the agent e.g. to release the agent over time. An agent can be affixed by non covalent interactions or by covalent interactions e.g. covalent interactions that are disrupted overtime.

Ability of an agent to function to a required degree can be to an extent detectable as significant by one skilled in the art or to a statistically significant degree.

The restenosis rates for the most common treatments for coronary vascular conditions are shown in Table 1.

Proliferation of vascular smooth muscle cells VSMC is thought to be a key factor in the development of atherosclerosis and restenosis after balloon injury and is associated with dedifferentiation of the VSMC. Alterations in expression of proteins involved in calcium homeostasis have been reported. Differentiated smooth muscle cell exhibits different Ca2 signals including localized transient release through the ryanodine receptors in the form of Ca2 sparks and Ca2 waves of different amplitude and frequency. Proliferation of VSMC is accompanied by replacement of the L type Ca2 channels by the T type loss of ryanodine receptors and of SERCA2a and enhanced capacitative Ca2 entry.

The inventors have found that increasing SERCA e.g. SERCA2a activity in a subject can prevent or reduce restenosis. The methods described herein e.g. methods of preventing or reducing restenosis by increasing SERCA activity e.g. by gene transfer of SERCA can improve calcium handling without causing apoptosis. Other advantages of the methods and compositions described herein include decreased proliferation of smooth muscle cells without causing apoptosis and cell death lack of toxicity in other tissues beneficial effects within the myocardium prevention of smooth muscle death and maintenance of the integrity of the wall.

The sarcoplasmic reticulum SR is an internal membrane system which plays a critical role in the regulation of cytosolic Ca concentrations and thus excitation contraction coupling in muscle. In cardiac cells release of Ca from the SR leads to contraction whereas in smooth muscle cells it induces vasorelaxation through activation of Ca activated potassium channels and hyperpolarisation of the cell. Control of the cytosolic Ca concentration involves the active re uptake of Ca into the SR lumen by a Ca ATPase. In cardiac and smooth muscles the SR Ca ATPase activity SERCA2a is under reversible regulation by phospholamban.

Defects in SR Ca cycling have a crucial role in progression of cardiac hypertrophy and failure. Cardiac hypertrophy as well as its deleterious effects on contractile function can be prevented by activating SR Ca uptake either by SERCA2a gene transfer or by decreasing the inhibitory effect of phospholamban on SERCA 2a reviewed in Kaprielian et al. 2002 Basic Res Cardiol. 97 Suppl 1 I136 45 .

The sequence of human SERCA proteins are known in the art see e.g. Lytton and MacLennan 1988 J. Biol. Chem. 263 29 15024 15031 Genbank Accession Nos. NP001672 P16615 NP733765 .

The nucleic acids described herein e.g. a SERCA encoding nucleic acid can be incorporated into a gene construct to be used as a part of a gene therapy protocol. Methods for gene transfer in vivo are known in the art. Approaches include insertion of the subject gene in viral vectors including recombinant retroviruses adenovirus e.g. replication deficient first generation or gutted second generation adenovirus adeno associated virus e.g. any of types 1 6 lentivirus and herpes simplex virus 1 or recombinant bacterial or eukaryotic plasmids. Viral vectors transfect cells directly plasmid DNA can be delivered with the help of for example cationic liposomes lipofectin or derivatized e.g. antibody conjugated polylysine conjugates gramacidin S artificial viral envelopes or other such intracellular carriers as well as direct injection of the gene construct or CaPOprecipitation carried out in vivo.

Gene transfer into cardiovascular tissue for example has been successful using adenovirus Ad vectors with strong non tissue specific gene expression cassettes driven by cytomegalovirus CMV or Rous sarcoma virus RSV promoters. Clinical trials involving transduction of cardiac cells with viral vectors to deliver angiogenic factors such as vascular endothelial cell growth factor VEGF fibroblast growth factor FGF and hepatocyte growth factor HGF have been ongoing. Intra aorta or intracoronary injection of virus has been used in vivo in animal models. In one study intracardiac injection of an Ad SERCA2a viral vector in rats was sufficient to induce physiological improvement in calcium handling. See Miyamoto et al. 2000 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 97 793 98. Adenoviral vectors have also been used in vivo to express 2 adrenergic receptor AR see Maurice et al. 1999 J. Clin. Invest. 104 21 9 and Shah et al. 2001 Circulation 103 1311 . As is known from studies on cystic fibrosis transduction of all cells in a tissue is not required for improved function. For example expression of the wild type sodium channel in as few as 6 10 of cells within an epithelial sheet lacking a functional sodium channel is sufficient for normal sodium ion transport Johnson et al 1992 Nat. Genet 2 21 5 . This is known as the bystander effect.

Tissue specific promoters have been used to increase specificity of myocardial gene expression Rothmann et al. 1996 Gene Ther. 3 919 26 . Another strategy to restrict expression of transferred genes to the heart has involved direct injection of a viral vector into the myocardium Gutzman et al 1993 Cric. Res. 73 1202 7 French et al. 1994 Circulation. 90 2414 24 . Another attempt involved intrapericardial virus vector injection combined with proteinase treatment Fromes et al. 1999 Gene Ther. 6 683 8 . These manipulations achieved local gene delivery although with some drawbacks due to a lack of intense viral vector diffusion.

The efficiency of cardiomyocyte gene delivery by an adeno associated virus AAV vector was documented in vitro using cultured rat neonatal cells as well as in an ex vivo system using rat papillary muscle immersion Maeda et al. 1998 J. Mol. Cell. Cardiol. 30 1341 8 . Ex vivo AAV vector transfer followed by syngeneic heart transplantation was reported to achieve high efficiency marker gene expression Svensson et al. 1999 Circulation. 99 201 5 .

Methods of achieving a high level of in vivo cardiotopic gene transfer with high consistency average 60 70 of cardiac myocytes are described e.g. in US Published Application 20020032167. Other methods for the preparation and use of viral vectors are described in WO 96 13597 WO 96 33281 WO 97 15679 and Trapnell et al. 1994 Curr. Opin. Biotechnol. 5 6 617 625 Ardehali et al. 1995 J. Thorac. Cardiovasc. Surg. 109 716 720 Dalesandro et al. 1996 J. Thorac. Cardiovasc. Surg. 111 416 422 Sawa et al. 1995 Circ 92 II479 11482 Lee et al. 1996 J. Thorac. Cardiovasc. Surg. 111 246 252 Yap et al. 19996 Circ. 94 I 53 and Pellegrini et al. 1998 Transpl. Int. 11 373 377.

A subject polynucleotide can also be administered using a non viral delivery vehicle. Non viral delivery vehicle also referred to herein as non viral vector as used herein is meant to include chemical formulations containing naked or condensed polynucleotides e.g. a formulation of polynucleotides and cationic compounds e.g. dextran sulfate and naked or condensed polynucleotides mixed with an adjuvant such as a viral particle i.e. the polynucleotide of interest is not contained within the viral particle but the transforming formulation is composed of both naked polynucleotides and viral particles e.g. adenovirus particles see e.g. Curiel et al. 1992 Am. J. Respir. Cell Mol. Biol. 6 247 52 . Thus non viral delivery vehicle can include vectors composed of polynucleotides plus viral particles where the viral particles do not contain the polynucleotide of interest. Non viral delivery vehicles include bacterial plasmids viral genomes or portions thereof wherein the polynucleotide to be delivered is not encapsidated or contained within a viral particle and constructs comprising portions of viral genomes and portions of bacterial plasmids and or bacteriophages. The term also encompasses natural and synthetic polymers and co polymers. The term further encompasses lipid based vehicles. Lipid based vehicles include cationic liposomes such as disclosed by Felgner et al U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 264 618 and 5 459 127 PNAS 84 7413 7417 1987 Annals N.Y. Acad. Sci. 772 126 139 1995 they may also consist of neutral or negatively charged phospholipids or mixtures thereof including artificial viral envelopes as disclosed by Schreier et al. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 252 348 and 5 766 625 .

Non viral delivery vehicles include polymer based carriers. Polymer based carriers may include natural and synthetic polymers and co polymers. Preferably the polymers are biodegradable or can be readily eliminated from the subject. Naturally occurring polymers include polypeptides and polysaccharides. Synthetic polymers include but are not limited to polylysines and polyethyleneimines PEI Boussif et al. PNAS 92 7297 7301 1995 which molecules can also serve as condensing agents. These carriers may be dissolved dispersed or suspended in a dispersion liquid such as water ethanol saline solutions and mixtures thereof. A wide variety of synthetic polymers are known in the art and can be used.

In clinical settings the gene delivery systems for the therapeutic gene can be introduced into a patient by any of a number of methods each of which is familiar in the art. For instance a pharmaceutical preparation of the gene delivery system can be introduced systemically e.g by intravenous injection and specific transduction of the protein in the target cells occurs predominantly from specificity of transfection provided by the gene delivery vehicle cell type or tissue type expression due to the transcriptional regulatory sequences controlling expression of the receptor gene or a combination thereof. In other embodiments initial delivery of the recombinant gene is more limited with introduction into the animal being quite localized. For example the gene delivery vehicle can be introduced by catheter see U.S. Pat. No. 5 328 470 or by stereotactic injection e.g. Chen et al. 1994 PNAS 91 3054 3057 .

The pharmaceutical preparation of the gene therapy construct can consist essentially of the gene delivery system in an acceptable diluent or can comprise a slow release matrix in which the gene delivery vehicle is imbedded. Alternatively where the complete gene delivery system can be produced in tact from recombinant cells e.g. retroviral vectors the pharmaceutical preparation can comprise one or more cells which produce the gene delivery system.

The polynucleotide to be delivered can also be formulated as a DNA or RNA liposome complex formulation. Such complexes comprise a mixture of lipids which bind to genetic material DNA or RNA by means of cationic charge electrostatic interaction . Cationic liposomes which may be used in the present invention include 3 N N N dimethyl aminoethane carbamoyl cholesterol DC Chol 1 2 bis oleoyloxy 3 trimethylammonio propane DOTAP see for example WO 98 07408 lysinylphosphatidylethanola mine L PE lipopolyamines such as lipospermine N 2 hydroxyethyl N N dimethyl 2 3 bis dodecyloxy 1 propanaminium bromide dimethyl dioctadecyl ammonium bromide DDAB dioleoylphosphatidyl ethanolamine DOPE dioleoylphosphatidyl choline DOPC N 1 2 3 dioleyloxy propyl N N N triethylammonium DOTMA DOSPA DMRIE GL 67 GL 89 Lipofectin and Lipofectamine Thiery et al. 1997 Gene Ther. 4 226 237 Felgner et al. Annals N.Y. Acad. Sci. 772 126 139 1995 Eastman et al. Hum. Gene Ther. 8 765 7.73 1997 . Polynucleotide lipid formulations described in U.S. Pat. No. 5 858 784 can also be used in the methods described herein. Many of these lipids are commercially available from for example Boehringer Mannheim and Avanti Polar Lipids Birmingham Ala. . Also encompassed are the cationic phospholipids found in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 264 618 5 223 263 and 5 459 127. Other suitable phospholipids which may be used include phosphatidylcholine phosphatidylserine phosphatidylethanolamine sphingomyelin phosphatidylinositol and the like. Cholesterol may also be included.

The present invention includes within its scope the use of a composition for treating restenosis comprising an agent that increases SERCA e.g. SERCA2a activity. The agent can be e.g. a nucleic acid encoding SERCA in the form of expression vector containing a DNA encoding SERCA2 preferably SERCA2a in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier excipient or other additive if necessary. In another embodiment the agent is an antisense nucleic acid at least partially complementary to a phospholamban nucleic acid sequence in association with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier excipient or other additive if necessary. Examples of suitable carriers excipients and diluents are lactose dextrose sucrose sorbitol mannitol starches gum acacia alginates gelatin calcium phosphate calcium silicate cellulose methyl cellulose microcrystalline cellulose polyvinylpyrrolidone water methylhydroxybenzoates propylhydroxybenzoates talc magnesium stearate and mineral oil. The compositions may additionally include lubricating agents wetting agents flavoring agents emulsifiers preservatives and the like.

The compositions described herein can be formulated so as to provide quick sustained or delayed release of the active ingredient after administration to a patient by employing any of the procedures well known in the art.

In a preferred embodiment the agent is formulated for intracardiac or intra vessel administration. Such direct administration can be accomplished thorough e.g. coating the agent on a stent to be implanted into a vessel of the subject. The effective amount of a nucleic DNA encoding SERCA2a as an active ingredient may range from about 0.05 to 500 mg kg preferably 0.5 to 50 mg kg body weight and can be administered in a single dose or in divided doses. However it should be understood that the amount of the active ingredient actually administered ought to be determined in light of various relevant factors including the condition to be treated the age and weight of the individual patient and the severity of the patient s symptom and therefore the above dose should not be intended to limit the scope of the invention in any way.

The invention also includes a stent coated with or containing an agent that increase SERCA preferably SERCA2a activity e.g. an agent described herein. Methods for preparing stents both biodegradable and non biodegradable for delivering a therapeutic agent are well known see e.g. U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 163 952 5 304 121 6 391 052 6 387 124 6 379 382 and 6 358 556 6 605 110 6 605 114 6 572 645 6 569 194 6 545 748 6 541 116 6 527 801 6 506 437 . In one embodiment a stent described herein is coated with a therapeutic agent e.g. an agent described herein such as a SERCA nucleic acid described herein using techniques known in the art.

In one embodiment the stent is a stainless steel stent or nytinol mesh like devices. For example a stent can be delivered into the coronary artery on a catheter during a PCI procedure percutaneous coronary intervention . A stent can be deployed in the artery by either expansion by a balloon or by a self expanding delivery design. Exemplary commercially available stents include Gianturco Roubin Stents e.g. from Cook Cardiology Multilink Duet Tetra Penta Zeta Stents e.g. from Guidant Nir Wall Stents Taxus e.g. from SCIMED Boston Scientific GFX S series Stents e.g. from Medtronic AVE velocity and Cypher stents e.g. from Johnson Johnson Cordis 

For example a stent can be coated with a polymeric cation that can mediate nucleic acid condensation or compaction e.g. as described in U.S. Pat. No. 6 596 699. Linear polycations such as poly L lysine polyornithine polyarginine and the like can be used. The polymers may be homopolymers such as polylysine polyornithine or polyarginine or may be heteropolymers including random polymers formed of lysine ornithine arginine and the like. More complex molecules may also be employed as polycations such as branched or linear polyethylenimine and the like. Any of a variety of naturally occurring nucleic acid binding agents may be employed such as spermine or spermidine and are including within the definition of polycation. Protamine can similarly be employed as can any of a variety of histones. Polyamidoamine dendrimers may similarly be employed wherein terminal amino groups bind the nucleic acid by electrostatic means resulting in positively charged condensates. The polycation may be specifically modified to provide optimal characteristics to form the desired condensate. For example a repeating lysine chain of 18 residues followed by a tryptophan and an alkylated cysteine residue has been reported to form condensates with properties at least equal to polylysine. McKenzie et al. J. Peptide Res. 54 311 318 1999 . In general the polycation is positively charged and has a net positive charge at about pH 6 to about 8 or has more than about five positively charged residues. The polycation has a higher number of positive charges compared to the number of negative charges. A polycation includes natural nucleic acid binding proteins and recombinant nucleic acid binding protein such as homo or hetero polymers of amino acids or synthetic compounds that bind to one or more nucleic acid sequences found within natural or recombinant nucleic acid molecules and results in nucleic acid condensation.

An additional method of coating a therapeutic nucleic acid onto a medical device such as a stent involves coating the medical device with a swellable hydrogel polymer as described e.g. in U.S. Pat. No. 5 674 192 or 6 409 716. The hydrogel coating is characterized by the ability to incorporate a substantial amount of the nucleic acid typically in aqueous solution form and is swellable such that the aqueous solution can be effectively squeezed out of the coating when pressure is applied e.g. by inflation or expansion of the stent. Administration of the drug in this way enables the drug to be site specific such that release of high concentrations can be limited to direct application to the affected tissue.

Other methods of coupling a therapeutic agent such nucleic acid to a stent or other medical device are known in the art see for example U.S. Pat. No. 6 024 918 U.S. Pat. No. 6 506 408 U.S. Pat. No. 5 932 299.

In some embodiments a stent described herein in addition to being coated with or containing an agent that increases SERCA expression can also be coated with a second therapeutic agent. For example the stent can also contain one or more of rapamycin taxol and actinomycin D a thrombin inhibitor an antithrombogenic agent a thrombolytic agent a fibrinolytic agent a vasospasm inhibitor a calcium channel blocker a vasodilator an antihypertensive agent an antimicrobial agent an antibiotic an inhibitor of surface glycoprotein receptors an antiplatelet agent an antimitotic a microtubule inhibitor an antisecretory agent an actin inhibitor a remodeling inhibitor an antisense nucleotide an antimetabolite an antiproliferative an anticancer chemotherapeutic agent an anti inflammatory steroid or non steroidal antiinflammatory agent an immunosuppressive agent a growth hormone antagonist a growth factor a dopamine agonist a radiotherapeutic agent a peptide a protein an enzyme an extracellular matrix component a free radical scavenger a chelator an antioxidant an antipolymerase an antiviral agent a photodynamic therapy agent and a gene therapy agent e.g. a second gene therapy agent. In one embodiment the subject is also administered a second agent e.g. separately from the agent that increases SERCA activity. For example the subject can be orally administered aspirin or an oral anti platelet drug e.g. PLAVIX or TICLID .

The agent described herein e.g. SERCA nucleic acid or polypeptide can be provided in a kit. The kit includes a the agent e.g. a composition that includes the agent b informational material and optionally c a stent. The informational material can be descriptive instructional marketing or other material that relates to the methods described herein and or the use of the agent for the methods described herein. For example the informational material relates to restenosis.

In one embodiment the informational material can include instructions to administer the agent in a suitable manner to perform the methods described herein e.g. in a suitable dose dosage form or mode of administration e.g. a dose dosage form or mode of administration described herein . In another embodiment the informational material can include instructions to administer the agent to a suitable subject e.g. a human e.g. a human having or at risk for restenosis. For example the material can include instructions to administer the agent to a subject who has had is having or will have angioplasty.

The informational material of the kits is not limited in its form. In many cases the informational material e.g. instructions is provided in printed matter e.g. a printed text drawing and or photograph e.g. a label or printed sheet. However the informational material can also be provided in other formats such as computer readable material video recording or audio recording. In another embodiment the informational material of the kit is contact information e.g. a physical address email address website or telephone number where a user of the kit can obtain substantive information about the agent and or its use in the methods described herein. Of course the informational material can also be provided in any combination of formats.

In addition to the agent the composition of the kit can include other ingredients such as a solvent or buffer a stabilizer a preservative and or a second agent for treating a condition or disorder described herein. Alternatively the other ingredients can be included in the kit but in different compositions or containers than the agent. In such embodiments the kit can include instructions for admixing the agent and the other ingredients or for using the agent together with the other ingredients.

The agent can be provided in any form e.g. liquid dried or lyophilized form. It is preferred that the agent be substantially pure and or sterile. When the agent is provided in a liquid solution the liquid solution preferably is an aqueous solution with a sterile aqueous solution being preferred. When the agent is provided as a dried form reconstitution generally is by the addition of a suitable solvent. The solvent e.g. sterile water or buffer can optionally be provided in the kit.

The kit can include one or more containers for the composition containing the agent. In some embodiments the kit contains separate containers dividers or compartments for the composition and informational material. For example the composition can be contained in a bottle vial or syringe and the informational material can be contained in a plastic sleeve or packet. In other embodiments the separate elements of the kit are contained within a single undivided container. For example the composition is contained in a bottle vial or syringe that has attached thereto the informational material in the form of a label. In some embodiments the kit includes a plurality e.g. a pack of individual containers each containing one or more unit dosage forms e.g. a dosage form described herein of the agent. For example the kit includes a plurality of syringes ampules foil packets or blister packs each containing a single unit dose of the agent. The containers of the kits can be air tight and or waterproof.

The kit optionally includes a device suitable for administration of the composition e.g. a stent syringe or any useful delivery device. In a preferred embodiment the device is a stent.

Amino acid sequence variants of SERCA or fragments thereof can be prepared by a number of techniques such as random mutagenesis of DNA which encodes a SERCA or a region thereof. Useful methods also include PCR mutagenesis and saturation mutagenesis. A library of random amino acid sequence variants can also be generated by the synthesis of a set of degenerate oligonucleotide sequences.

In PCR mutagenesis reduced Taq polymerase fidelity is used to introduce random mutations into a cloned fragment of DNA Leung et al. 19891 11 15 . This is a very powerful and relatively rapid method of introducing random mutations. The DNA region to be mutagenized is amplified using the polymerase chain reaction PCR under conditions that reduce the fidelity of DNA synthesis by Taq DNA polymerase e.g. by using a dGTP dATP ratio of five and adding Mn to the PCR reaction. The pool of amplified DNA fragments are inserted into appropriate cloning vectors to provide random mutant libraries.

Saturation mutagenesis allows for the rapid introduction of a large number of single base substitutions into cloned DNA fragments Mayers et al. 1985229 242 . This technique includes generation of mutations e.g. by chemical treatment or irradiation of single stranded DNA in vitro and synthesis of a complimentary DNA strand. The mutation frequency can be modulated by modulating the severity of the treatment and essentially all possible base substitutions can be obtained. Because this procedure does not involve a genetic selection for mutant fragments both neutral substitutions as well as those that alter function are obtained. The distribution of point mutations is not biased toward conserved sequence elements.

A library of homologs can also be generated from a set of degenerate oligonucleotide sequences. Chemical synthesis of a degenerate sequences can be carried out in an automatic DNA synthesizer and the synthetic genes then ligated into an appropriate expression vector. The synthesis of degenerate oligonucleotides is known in the art see for example Narang S A 1983 39 3 Itakura et al. 1981 3 ed. A G Walton Amsterdam Elsevier pp 273 289 Itakura et al. 1984 53 323 Itakura et al. 1984 198 1056 Ike et al. 1983 11 477. Such techniques have been employed in the directed evolution of other proteins see for example Scott et al. 1990 249 386 390 Roberts et al. 1992 89 2429 2433 Devlin et al. 1990 249 404 406 Cwirla et al. 1990 87 6378 6382 as well as U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 223 409 5 198 346 and 5 096 815 .

Non random or directed mutagenesis techniques can be used to provide specific sequences or mutations in specific regions. These techniques can be used to create variants that include e.g. deletions insertions or substitutions of residues of the known amino acid sequence of a protein. The sites for mutation can be modified individually or in series e.g. by 1 substituting first with conserved amino acids and then with more radical choices depending upon results achieved 2 deleting the target residue or 3 inserting residues of the same or a different class adjacent to the located site or combinations of options 1 3.

Alanine scanning mutagenesis is a useful method for identification of certain residues or regions of the desired protein that are preferred locations or domains for mutagenesis Cunningham and Wells 244 1081 1085 1989 . In alanine scanning a residue or group of target residues are identified e.g. charged residues such as Arg Asp His Lys and Glu and replaced by a neutral or negatively charged amino acid most preferably alanine or polyalanine . Replacement of an amino acid can affect the interaction of the amino acids with the surrounding aqueous environment in or outside the cell. Those domains demonstrating functional sensitivity to the substitutions are then refined by introducing further or other variants at or for the sites of substitution. Thus while the site for introducing an amino acid sequence variation is predetermined the nature of the mutation per se need not be predetermined. For example to optimize the performance of a mutation at a given site alanine scanning or random mutagenesis may be conducted at the target codon or region and the expressed desired protein subunit variants are screened for the optimal combination of desired activity.

Oligonucleotide mediated mutagenesis is a useful method for preparing substitution deletion and insertion variants of DNA see e.g. Adelman et al. 2 183 1983 . Briefly the desired DNA is altered by hybridizing an oligonucleotide encoding a mutation to a DNA template where the template is the single stranded form of a plasmid or bacteriophage containing the unaltered or native DNA sequence of the desired protein. After hybridization a DNA polymerase is used to synthesize an entire second complementary strand of the template that will thus incorporate the oligonucleotide primer and will code for the selected alteration in the desired protein DNA. Generally oligonucleotides of at least 25 nucleotides in length are used. An optimal oligonucleotide will have 12 to 15 nucleotides that are completely complementary to the template on either side of the nucleotide s coding for the mutation. This ensures that the oligonucleotide will hybridize properly to the single stranded DNA template molecule. The oligonucleotides are readily synthesized using techniques known in the art such as that described by Crea et al. . 1978 USA 75 5765 .

Another method for preparing variants cassette mutagenesis is based on the technique described by Wells et al. 34 315 1985 . The starting material is a plasmid or other vector which includes the protein subunit DNA to be mutated. The codon s in the protein subunit DNA to be mutated are identified. There must be a unique restriction endonuclease site on each side of the identified mutation site s . If no such restriction sites exist they may be generated using the above described oligonucleotide mediated mutagenesis method to introduce them at appropriate locations in the desired protein subunit DNA. After the restriction sites have been introduced into the plasmid the plasmid is cut at these sites to linearize it. A double stranded oligonucleotide encoding the sequence of the DNA between the restriction sites but containing the desired mutation s is synthesized using standard procedures. The two strands are synthesized separately and then hybridized together using standard techniques. This double stranded oligonucleotide is referred to as the cassette. This cassette is designed to have 3 and 5 ends that are comparable with the ends of the linearized plasmid such that it can be directly ligated to the plasmid. This plasmid now contains the mutated desired protein subunit DNA sequence.

Combinatorial mutagenesis can also be used to generate variants. For example the amino acid sequences for a group of homologs or other related proteins are aligned preferably to promote the highest homology possible. All of the amino acids which appear at a given position of the aligned sequences can be selected to create a degenerate set of combinatorial sequences. The variegated library of variants is generated by combinatorial mutagenesis at the nucleic acid level and is encoded by a variegated gene library. For example a mixture of synthetic oligonucleotides can be enzymatically ligated into gene sequences such that the degenerate set of potential sequences are expressible as individual peptides or alternatively as a set of larger fusion proteins containing the set of degenerate sequences.

Various techniques are known in the art for screening peptides e.g. synthetic peptides e.g. small molecular weight peptides e.g. linear or cyclic peptides or generated mutant gene products. Techniques for screening large gene libraries often include cloning the gene library into replicable expression vectors transforming appropriate cells with the resulting library of vectors and expressing the genes under conditions in which detection of a desired activity assembly into a trimeric molecules binding to natural ligands e.g. a receptor or substrates facilitates relatively easy isolation of the vector encoding the gene whose product was detected. Each of the techniques described below is amenable to high through put analysis for screening large numbers of sequences created e.g. by random mutagenesis techniques.

Two hybrid interaction trap assays can be used to identify a protein that interacts with SERCA. These may include e.g. agonists superagonists and antagonists of SERCA. The subject protein and a protein it interacts with are used as the bait protein and fish proteins . These assays rely on detecting the reconstitution of a functional transcriptional activator mediated by protein protein interactions with a bait protein. In particular these assays make use of chimeric genes which express hybrid proteins. The first hybrid comprises a DNA binding domain fused to the bait protein. e.g. SERCA or active fragments thereof. The second hybrid protein contains a transcriptional activation domain fused to a fish protein e.g. an expression library. If the fish and bait proteins are able to interact they bring into close proximity the DNA binding and transcriptional activator domains. This proximity is sufficient to cause transcription of a reporter gene which is operably linked to a transcriptional regulatory site which is recognized by the DNA binding domain and expression of the marker gene can be detected and used to score for the interaction of the bait protein with another protein.

In one approach to screening assays the candidate peptides are displayed on the surface of a cell or viral particle and the ability of particular cells or viral particles to bind an appropriate receptor protein via the displayed product is detected in a panning assay . For example the gene library can be cloned into the gene for a surface membrane protein of a bacterial cell and the resulting fusion protein detected by panning Ladner et al. WO 88 06630 Fuchs et al. 1991 9 1370 1371 and Goward et al. 1992 18 136 140 . This technique was used in Sahu et al. 1996 J. Immunology 157 884 891 to isolate a complement inhibitor. In a similar fashion a detectably labeled ligand can be used to score for potentially functional peptide homologs. Fluorescently labeled ligands e.g. receptors can be used to detect homolog which retain ligand binding activity. The use of fluorescently labeled ligands allows cells to be visually inspected and separated under a fluorescence microscope or where the morphology of the cell permits to be separated by a fluorescence activated cell sorter.

A gene library can be expressed as a fusion protein on the surface of a viral particle. For instance in the filamentous phage system foreign peptide sequences can be expressed on the surface of infectious phage thereby conferring two significant benefits. First since these phage can be applied to affinity matrices at concentrations well over 10phage per milliliter a large number of phage can be screened at one time. Second since each infectious phage displays a gene product on its surface if a particular phage is recovered from an affinity matrix in low yield the phage can be amplified by another round of infection. The group of almost identical filamentous phages M13 fd. and fl are most often used in phage display libraries. Either of the phage gIII or gVIII coat proteins can be used to generate fusion proteins without disrupting the ultimate packaging of the viral particle. Foreign epitopes can be expressed at the NH terminal end of pIII and phage bearing such epitopes recovered from a large excess of phage lacking this epitope Ladner et al. PCT publication WO 90 02909 Garrard et al. PCT publication WO 92 09690 Marks et al. 1992 267 16007 16010 Griffiths et al. 1993 12 725 734 Clackson et al. 1991 352 624 628 and Barbas et al. 1992 89 4457 4461 .

A common approach uses the maltose receptor of the outer membrane protein LamB as a peptide fusion partner Charbit et al. 1986 5 3029 3037 . Oligonucleotides have been inserted into plasmids encoding the LamB gene to produce peptides fused into one of the extracellular loops of the protein. These peptides are available for binding to ligands e.g. to antibodies and can elicit an immune response when the cells are administered to animals. Other cell surface proteins e.g. OmpA Schorr et al. 1991 91 pp. 387 392 PhoE Agterberg et al. 1990 88 37 45 and PAL Fuchs et al. 1991 9 1369 1372 as well as large bacterial surface structures have served as vehicles for peptide display. Peptides can be fused to pilin a protein which polymerizes to form the pilus a conduit for interbacterial exchange of genetic information Thiry et al. 1989 55 984 993 . Because of its role in interacting with other cells the pilus provides a useful support for the presentation of peptides to the extracellular environment. Another large surface structure used for peptide display is the bacterial motive organ the flagellum. Fusion of peptides to the subunit protein flagellin offers a dense array of may peptides copies on the host cells Kuwajima et al. 1988 6 1080 1083 . Surface proteins of other bacterial species have also served as peptide fusion partners. Examples include the protein A and the outer membrane protease IgA of Hansson et al. 1992 174 4239 4245 and Klauser et al. 1990 9 1991 1999 .

In the filamentous phage systems and the LamB system described above the physical link between the peptide and its encoding DNA occurs by the containment of the DNA within a particle cell or phage that carries the peptide on its surface. Capturing the peptide captures the particle and the DNA within. An alternative scheme uses the DNA binding protein LacI to form a link between peptide and DNA Cull et al. 1992 89 1865 1869 . This system uses a plasmid containing the LacI gene with an oligonucleotide cloning site at its 3 end. Under the controlled induction by arabinose a LacI peptide fusion protein is produced. This fusion retains the natural ability of LacI to bind to a short DNA sequence known as LacO operator LacO . By installing two copies of LacO on the expression plasmid the LacI peptide fusion binds tightly to the plasmid that encoded it. Because the plasmids in each cell contain only a single oligonucleotide sequence and each cell expresses only a single peptide sequence the peptides become specifically and stably associated with the DNA sequence that directed its synthesis. The cells of the library are gently lysed and the peptide DNA complexes are exposed to a matrix of immobilized receptor to recover the complexes containing active peptides. The associated plasmid DNA is then reintroduced into cells for amplification and DNA sequencing to determine the identity of the peptide ligands. As a demonstration of the practical utility of the method a large random library of dodecapeptides was made and selected on a monoclonal antibody raised against the opioid peptide dynorphin B. A cohort of peptides was recovered all related by a consensus sequence corresponding to a six residue portion of dynorphin B. Cull et al. 1992 89 1869 

This scheme sometimes referred to as peptides on plasmids differs in two important ways from the phage display methods. First the peptides are attached to the C terminus of the fusion protein resulting in the display of the library members as peptides having free carboxy termini. Both of the filamentous phage coat proteins pIII and pVIII are anchored to the phage through their C termini and the guest peptides are placed into the outward extending N terminal domains. In some designs the phage displayed peptides are presented right at the amino terminus of the fusion protein. Cwirla et al. 1990 87 6378 6382 A second difference is the set of biological biases affecting the population of peptides actually present in the libraries. The LacI fusion molecules are confined to the cytoplasm of the host cells. The phage coat fusions are exposed briefly to the cytoplasm during translation but are rapidly secreted through the inner membrane into the periplasmic compartment remaining anchored in the membrane by their C terminal hydrophobic domains with the N termini containing the peptides protruding into the periplasm while awaiting assembly into phage particles. The peptides in the LacI and phage libraries may differ significantly as a result of their exposure to different proteolytic activities. The phage coat proteins require transport across the inner membrane and signal peptidase processing as a prelude to incorporation into phage. Certain peptides exert a deleterious effect on these processes and are underrepresented in the libraries Gallop et al. 1994 37 9 1233 1251 . These particular biases are not a factor in the LacI display system.

The number of small peptides available in recombinant random libraries is enormous. Libraries of 10 10independent clones are routinely prepared. Libraries as large as 10recombinants have been created but this size approaches the practical limit for clone libraries. This limitation in library size occurs at the step of transforming the DNA containing randomized segments into the host bacterial cells. To circumvent this limitation an in vitro system based on the display of nascent peptides in polysome complexes has recently been developed. This display library method has the potential of producing libraries 3 6 orders of magnitude larger than the currently available phage phagemid or plasmid libraries. Furthermore the construction of the libraries expression of the peptides and screening is done in an entirely cell free format.

In one application of this method Gallop et al. 1994 37 9 1233 1251 a molecular DNA library encoding 10decapeptides was constructed and the library expressed in an S30 in vitro coupled transcription translation system. Conditions were chosen to stall the ribosomes on the mRNA causing the accumulation of a substantial proportion of the RNA in polysomes and yielding complexes containing nascent peptides still linked to their encoding RNA. The polysomes are sufficiently robust to be affinity purified on immobilized receptors in much the same way as the more conventional recombinant peptide display libraries are screened. RNA from the bound complexes is recovered converted to cDNA and amplified by PCR to produce a template for the next round of synthesis and screening. The polysome display method can be coupled to the phage display system. Following several rounds of screening cDNA from the enriched pool of polysomes was cloned into a phagemid vector. This vector serves as both a peptide expression vector displaying peptides fused to the coat proteins and as a DNA sequencing vector for peptide identification. By expressing the polysome derived peptides on phage one can either continue the affinity selection procedure in this format or assay the peptides on individual clones for binding activity in a phage ELISA or for binding specificity in a completion phage ELISA Barret et al. 1992 204 357 364 . To identify the sequences of the active peptides one sequences the DNA produced by the phagemid host.

For example one or more residues e.g. between one and six residues or one and three residues in a SERCA protein can differ from wild type or can be deleted. For example the N terminal first and or second residue e.g. after removal of a signal sequence can be deleted and the C terminal most first and or second residue can be deleted. Selected transmembrane residues can be altered e.g. with similar hydrophobic residues. The protein may include other substitutions e.g. conservative substitutions. A conservative amino acid substitution is one in which the amino acid residue is replaced with an amino acid residue having a similar side chain. Families of amino acid residues having similar side chains have been defined in the art. These families include amino acids with basic side chains e.g. lysine arginine histidine acidic side chains e.g. aspartic acid glutamic acid uncharged polar side chains e.g. glycine asparagine glutamine serine threonine tyrosine cysteine nonpolar side chains e.g. alanine valine leucine isoleucine proline phenylalanine methionine tryptophan beta branched side chains e.g. threonine valine isoleucine and aromatic side chains e.g. tyrosine phenylalanine tryptophan histidine . It is possible for many framework and CDR amino acid residues to include one or more conservative substitutions.

The high through put assays described above can be followed or substituted by secondary screens e.g. the following screens in order to identify biological activities which will e.g. allow one skilled in the art to differentiate agonists from antagonists. The type of a secondary screen used will depend on the desired activity that needs to be tested. Several such assays are described below. For example an assay can be developed in which the ability to increase or mimic SERCA activity can be used to identify SERCA agonists from a group of peptide fragments isolated though one of the primary screens described above.

SERCA can bind to a SERCA binding partner e.g. phospholamban or sarcolipin. The ability of a SERCA variant to bind a binding partner e.g. phospholamban or sarcolipin is an assayable activity of SERCA function. In addition a binding assay e.g. a binding assay described herein can be used to evaluate a the ability of a test agent to bind SERCA b the ability of a test agent to inhibit binding of SERCA to a binding partner e.g. the ability of a test agent to inhibit or disrupt SERCA binding to phospholamban or sarcolipin the ability of a test agent to stabilize or increase binding of a complement component to a binding partner e.g. the ability of a test agent to stabilize or increase SERCA binding to phospholamban or sarcolipin.

As SERCA e.g. human SERCA has been cloned and produced recombinantly it is readily available as a reagent to be used in standard binding assays known in the art which include but are not limited to affinity chromatography size exclusion chromatography gel filtration fluid phase binding assay ELISA e.g. competition ELISA immunoprecipitation.

The invention also provides for production of domains of SERCA to generate mimetics e.g. peptide or non peptide agents e.g. agonists.

Non hydrolyzable peptide analogs of critical residues can be generated using benzodiazepine e.g. see Freidinger et al. in Peptides Chemistry and Biology G. R. Marshall ed. ESCOM Publisher Leiden Netherlands 1988 azepine e.g. see Huffman et al. in Peptides Chemistry and Biology G. R. Marshall ed. ESCOM Publisher Leiden Netherlands 1988 substituted gama lactam rings Garvey et al. in Peptides Chemistry and Biology G. R. Marshall ed. ESCOM Publisher Leiden Netherlands 1988 keto methylene pseudopeptides Ewenson et al. 1986 J Med Chem 29 295 and Ewenson et al. in Peptides Structure and Function Proceedings of the 9th American Peptide Symposium Pierce Chemical Co. Rockland Ill. 1985 b turn dipeptide cores Nagai et al. 1985 Tetrahedron Lett 26 647 and Sato et al. 1986 J Chem Soc Perkin Trans 1 1231 and b aminoalcohols Gordon et al. 1985 Biochem Biophys Res Commun 126 419 and Dann et al. 1986 Biochem Biophys Res Commun 134 71 .

An agent that modulates SERCA signaling e.g. an agent described herein can be administered to a subject by standard methods. For example the agent can be administered by any of a number of different routes including by introduction into a lumen of the circulatory system e.g. the lumen of an artery vein or organ e.g. the heart. In another embodiment the agent is administered by injection e.g. intra arterially intramuscularly or intravenously. The agent can be packaged in a viral particle and formulated with materials compatible with maintaining ability of the viral particle to introduce the nucleic acid into a cell e.g. when the viral particle is introduced into a subject.

The agent e.g. a SERCA nucleic acid molecule polypeptide fragments or analog modulators e.g. organic compounds and antibodies also referred to herein as active compounds can be incorporated into pharmaceutical compositions suitable for administration to a subject e.g. a human. Such compositions typically include the polypeptide nucleic acid molecule modulator or antibody and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. As used herein the language pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is intended to include any and all solvents dispersion media coatings antibacterial and antifungal agents isotonic and absorption delaying agents and the like compatible with pharmaceutical administration. The use of such media and agents for pharmaceutically active substances are known. Except insofar as any conventional media or agent is incompatible with the active compound such media can be used in the compositions of the invention. Supplementary active compounds can also be incorporated into the compositions.

A pharmaceutical composition can be formulated to be compatible with its intended route of administration. Solutions or suspensions used for parenteral intradermal or subcutaneous application can include the following components a sterile diluent such as water for injection saline solution fixed oils polyethylene glycols glycerine propylene glycol or other synthetic solvents antibacterial agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl parabens antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite chelating agents such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid buffers such as acetates citrates or phosphates and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. pH can be adjusted with acids or bases such as hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide. The parenteral preparation can be enclosed in ampoules disposable syringes or multiple dose vials made of glass or plastic.

Pharmaceutical compositions suitable for injectable use include sterile aqueous solutions where water soluble or dispersions and sterile powders for the extemporaneous preparation of sterile injectable solutions or dispersion. For intravenous administration suitable carriers include physiological saline bacteriostatic water Cremophor EL BASF Parsippany N.J. or phosphate buffered saline PBS . In all cases the composition must be sterile and should be fluid to the extent that easy syringability exists. It must be stable under the conditions of manufacture and storage and must be preserved against the contaminating action of microorganisms such as bacteria and fungi. The carrier can be a solvent or dispersion medium containing for example water ethanol polyol for example glycerol propylene glycol and liquid polyethylene glycol and the like and suitable mixtures thereof. The proper fluidity can be maintained for example by the use of a coating such as lecithin by the maintenance of the required particle size in the case of dispersion and by the use of surfactants. Prevention of the action of microorganisms can be achieved by various antibacterial and antifungal agents for example parabens chlorobutanol phenol ascorbic acid thimerosal and the like. In many cases it will be preferable to include isotonic agents for example sugars polyalcohols such as manitol sorbitol sodium chloride in the composition. Prolonged absorption of the injectable compositions can be brought about by including in the composition an agent which delays absorption for example aluminum monostearate and gelatin.

Sterile injectable solutions can be prepared by incorporating the active compound e.g. an agent described herein in the required amount in an appropriate solvent with one or a combination of ingredients enumerated above as required followed by filtered sterilization. Generally dispersions are prepared by incorporating the active compound into a sterile vehicle which contains a basic dispersion medium and the required other ingredients from those enumerated above. In the case of sterile powders for the preparation of sterile injectable solutions the preferred methods of preparation are vacuum drying and freeze drying which yields a powder of the active ingredient plus any additional desired ingredient from a previously sterile filtered solution thereof.

In one embodiment the active compounds are prepared with carriers that will protect the compound against rapid elimination from the body such as a controlled release formulation including implants and microencapsulated delivery systems. Biodegradable biocompatible polymers can be used such as ethylene vinyl acetate polyanhydrides polyglycolic acid collagen polyorthoesters and polylactic acid. Methods for preparation of such formulations will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The materials can also be obtained commercially from Alza Corporation and Nova Pharmaceuticals Inc. Liposomal suspensions including liposomes targeted to infected cells with monoclonal antibodies to viral antigens can also be used as pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. These can be prepared according to methods known to those skilled in the art for example as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 522 811.

The pharmaceutical compositions can be included in a container pack or dispenser together with instructions for administration.

In a preferred embodiment the pharmaceutical composition is injected into an affected vessel e.g. an artery e.g. a coronary artery. In another embodiment the pharmaceutical composition is delivered in association with a medical device that is introduced into an affected vessel e.g. a stent that is introduced into the affected vessel. Additional exemplary modes of administration are described e.g. in U.S. Ser. No. 10 914 829.

Although methods and materials similar or equivalent to those described herein can be used in the practice or testing of the present invention suitable methods and materials are described below. All publications patent applications patents and other references mentioned herein are incorporated by reference in their entirety. In case of conflict the present specification including definitions will control. In addition the materials methods and examples are illustrative only and not intended to be limiting.

Other features and advantages of the invention will be apparent from the following detailed description the drawings and the claims.

Rat aortic SMC were isolated from the media of the thoracic aorta from male Wistar rats as and cultured in DMEM supplemented with 1 penicillin streptomycin amphotericin mixture ICN and 10 fetal calf serum FCS . At confluence they were passaged using trypsin. Cells between passage 2 to 8 were used.

The rat VSMC were infected with adenovirus SERCA2a vector essentially as described in del Monte et al. 2001 104 1424. Briefly human SERCA2a cDNA was subcloned into the adenoviral shuttle vector pAd.TRACK which uses the cytomegalovirus CMV long terminal repeat as a promoter to make Ad S2a vector. The shuttle vector used also has a concomitant green fluorescent protein GFP under the control of a separate CMV promoter. An adenovirus containing both galactosidase and GFP controlled by separate CMV promoters Ad Gal GFP was used as control. The adenoviruses were propagated in 293 cells. The recombinant adenoviruses were tested for the absence of wild type virus by polymerase chain reaction of the early transcriptional unit E1.

Adenoviral infection was followed by monitoring the fluorescence of GFP. Significant increase in fluorescence was observed 4 days after infection . Control cells as well as Ad Gal GFP infected cells did not express SERCA 2a. A high amount of SERCA 2a was present in Ad S2a infected cells without much change in the level of SERCA 2b .

Proliferation of VSMC was measured by using the colorimetric based CELLTITER96 Cell Proliferation Assay kit Promega according to manufacturer instructions. Between day 0 and day 4 the number of cells in control conditions and in cells infected with Ad pal had increased 5 times whereas the number of Ad S2a infected cells increased significantly less p

VSMCs were harvested by trypsinization and stained with propidium iodide and the DNA content and cell cycle were determined. Fluorescence of the nuclei after labelling with propidium iodide was analysed using a flowcytometer. In the control situation and in Ad Gal GFP infected cells the percentage of S gated events was approximately 50 and 46 respectively whereas it was only approximately 30 in Ad S2a infected cells. No cells were in the subG1 indicating the absence of apoptosis.

SERCA2a overexpression inhibits smooth muscle activation of NFAT and calcineurin downstream markers of hypertrophy and proliferation 

Balloon injured rat carotid arteries were infected with 10pfu Ad S2a n 4 or Ad Gal GFP control virus . Fourteen days after infection quantitative morphometry was performed on 5 m sections from the transduced segment by an investigator blinded to the experimental procedure.

At fourteen days after balloon injury and infection the intima media ratio was significantly lower in arteries infected with Ad S2a 0.16 0.08 than in control infected arteries 0.73 0.12 . P

Western blot analysis and immunofluorescence Total cell lysates were prepared according to standard protocol Upstate biotechnology Technical Support . Cytosolic and nuclear fractions were obtained by hypotonic lysis. The protein content was determined by using Bradford Protein Assay Reagent Kit Bio Rad . Lysates were matched for protein concentration resolved by SDS PAGE and transferred to Hybond C Amersham . The primary antibody was a NFATc1 from Santa Cruz Biotechnology Inc K 18 . Proteins were visualized using a goat anti rabbit secondary antibody conjugated to horseradish peroxidase and enhanced chemiluminescence s detection system ECL Amersham .

Immunofluorescence immunofluorescence was performed on cell culture or cryosections for the carotid artery. Proteins were visualized by using either secondary antibodies directly conjugated to Texas Red or the biotin streptavidin Texas Red conjugated amplification method Amersham . Antibodies to SERCA 2a and 2b were previously described. Anti PCNA proliferating nuclear antigen was from Abcam UK a GFP and a NFATc1 K 18 were from Santa Cruz. Nuclei were stained with Hoechst. Images were collected with a Zeiss LSM 510 confocal scanning laser microscope equipped with a 25 mW Argon laser and a 1 mW Helium Neon laser using a Plan Apochromat 63 objective NA 1.40 oil immersion . Green fluorescence was observed with a 505 550 nm band pass emission filter under 488 nm laser illumination and red fluorescence was observed with a 560 long pass emission filter under 543 nm laser illumination. Pinholes are set at 1.0 Airy unit. Stacks of images were collected every 0.4 m along the z axis. Hoescht detection is done using the HBO mercury lamp 50 W and a set filter 01 excitation BP 365 12 beamsplitter FT 395 emission LP 397 . All settings were kept constant for comparison. For double immunofluorescence dual excitation using the multitrack mode images taken sequentially was achieve using the Argon and He Ne lasers respectively.

Intracellular Ca2 i measurements Cells were loaded with 4 mol L Fura 2 Molecular Probes and continuously superfused with control or test solutions at 37 C. using a PTR 200 perfusion temperature regulator ALA Scientific Instruments Westbury N.Y. USA . The control solution contained mmol L NaCl 116 KCL 5.6 CaCl 1.8 MgCl 1.2 NaHCO3 5 NaH2PO4 1 HEPES 20 pH 7.3. Caffeine 10 mmol L ATP 1 10 and 100 mol L or 2 5 di t butyl 1 4 benzo hydroquinone tBHQ 50 mol L were used in the test solution. The excitation light was supplied by a high pressure 100 W xenon arc lamp and the 340 and 380 nm wavelengths selected by a monochromator Cairn Research Ltd Faversham Kent UK . Fluorescence images were collected every 2 seconds by a Sensicam QE CCD camera PCO Computer Optics GmbH Kelheim Germany digitized and integrated in real time by an image processor Metafluor Princeton N.J. USA . 340 and 380 background fluorescence signals were collected at the same rate and subsequently subtracted from respective fluorescent images. Results F F were expressed as ratios between 340 and 380 fluorescence signals measured during a response divided by the ratio measured in resting conditions i.e. before the addition of an agent.

DNA binding assay Electromobility shift assay was performed using 0.5 ng of P labelled double stranded NFAT probe NFATc gel shift oligonucleotide Santa Cruz sc 2577 and 15 g of nuclear extracts. Reaction mixtures were subjected to electrophoresis on a 5 polyacrylamide gel in non denaturing conditions.

We evaluated the effect of SERCA2a gene transfer on blood vessels in rats after balloon injury. We found that compared to controls SERCA2a gene transfer can prevent formation of a neointima.

Balloon injury. After the left external carotid artery was exposed and heparin 35 IU was administered intraperiotoneally a 2Fr Fogarty embolectomy catheter Baxter Healthcare Corp was introduced into an external carotid arteriotomy incision advanced to the common carotid artery and inflated at 2 atmosphere and withdrawn 3 times with rotation. The catheter was then removed and a dwelling catheter was introduced into the arteriotomy site. After both the proximal common carotid artery and the proximal internal carotid artery were clamped viral infusion mixtures with 1 10pfu of virus containing either SERCA2a or gal diluted to a total volume of 100 L was instilled via the arterial segment between the 2 clamps and the external carotid artery was then ligated. Perfusion was restored in the common carotid artery after 30 minutes of instillation and the neck incision was closed using 3 0 silk sutures.

Histochemical analysis. The animals were sacrificed after 7 and 14 days. Both the right and left common carotids were dissected and included in frozen specimen embedding solution. Transversal cryosections were performed on the middle portion of the artery and longitudinal sections on the proximal and distal portions. Hematoxylin eosin staining was performed and the surface of lumen as well as the thickness of the media and intima were measured on at least 3 5 sections for different portions of the arteries. Expression of SERCA 2a was analysed by immunofluorescence using a rabbit antiS2a antibody followed by and anti rabbit TRITC secondary antibody.

Four groups were considered 1 Non injured non infected corresponding to the right carotids 2 Injured non infected corresponding to the left carotid were no GFP labelling could be detected 3 Injured infected with Gal and 4 injured infected with S2a. The left carotids included in those two groups displayed clear GFP labelling on unfixed sections.

As shown in Table 2 there was no difference in the lumen area or in the media thickness between groups. There was a tendency to the prevention of intimal thickening with S2a gene transfer but due to the small number of animals this was not significant .

We evaluated expression of the S2a in control and infected arteries. Expression of S2a is visualized in red by confocal imaging on 0.8 m optical slices using a 63 oil immersion objective. In green is the auto fluorescence of the elastin. The image were obtained using the multitrack mode with a He Ne laser ex 543 nm Em LP 560 nm for the red fluorescence and with a Argon laser Ex 488 nm Em bp 505 550 for the green fluorescence. DIC represents the same image in differential interferential contrast.

A high level of S2a was observed in the media of the control carotid. When the vessel is injured the smooth muscle cells from the media start to proliferate and to migrate to the neointima. We found that low level of S2a is observed in those cells as seen in vitro. Infection with gal adenovirus did not prevent proliferation but restoration of a high level of S2a clearly inhibits the formation of the neointima. The differential interferential contrast image shows the adventitia which is not labelled with a S2a indicating the absence of background.

