---

title: Method and system for selectively controlling access to protected media on a media storage device
abstract: A method of preventing unauthorized reproduction of media disposed on a media storage device according to one embodiment is described. The method comprises installing a compliance mechanism on the computer system. The compliance mechanism is communicatively coupled with the computer system when installed thereon. The compliance mechanism is for enforcing compliance with a usage restriction applicable to the media. The method further includes obtaining control of a data input pathway operable on the computer system. The method further includes accessing data that is disposed on the media storage device that is associated with the usage restriction. The method further includes preventing the computer system from accessing the media digitally via the data pathway while enabling presentation of the protected media.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08132263&OS=08132263&RS=08132263
owner: Music Public Broadcasting, Inc.
number: 08132263
owner_city: Santa Cruz
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101028
---
The present patent application is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 771 809 filed Feb. 3 2004 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 904 964 entitled Method And System For Selectively Controlling Access To Protected Media On A Media Storage Device by Hank Risan et al. assigned to the assignee of the present application and incorporated in its entirety herein.

The present invention relates to electronic media. More particularly the present invention relates to preventing unauthorized recording of electronic media disposed on a media storage device.

One of the problems faced in attempting to effectively control media files on a media storage device e.g. a compact disk CD in a secure and controlled manner is that current media storage devices need to be compatible with both home media storage device players e.g. a CD digital versatile disk DVD or other player and media storage device drives which may be connected to a computer system. Many of these players drives were designed in 1982 and the media storage device needs to be backwards compatible with those players drives.

Media storage device drives are essentially data transducers meaning they convert bit stream data into electronic waveform that is output e.g. as an analog waveform harmonic waveform to speakers and or other devices to render sound.

A computer system is more problematic because in addition to its transducing abilities it may also be A a morphogenic system meaning that a user can take data reorganize the data and morph it into other forms on the computer and or B a replicator system meaning that it can also copy or capture or store or reproduce the data. As a result if a user can digitally access media stored on a CD using a computer they reorganize the data and or reproduce and distribute unauthorized copies of the data. This is especially problematic for owners of copyright protected media such as music computer software programs multimedia presentations such as movies etc.

The data format of a media storage device e.g. a CD was designed in 1982 and it was not designed with any security in mind. This is because it was designed to be effective media for data transduction and as such did not include provisions for effective copyright protection or Digital Rights Management DRM .

Some companies that have attempted to provide copyright protection are doing so in a way that is designed to exploit inefficiencies or discrepancies between the home player and the media storage device drive connected to a computer system. To provide media files for both players drives those companies do multisession tracks. The media storage device e.g. CD DVD delivers two sets of data. In one example a plus sign may be used to indicate that the CD DVD is a mixed disc having both data for the computer and music for the home machine Double clicking on the icon initiates autoplay of the CD DVD which in one example activates a player provided by the CD DVD.

One set of streaming data is for the media storage device drive connected to a computer system generally requested by a proprietary player and delivered in a highly compressed bit form to the computer user that may have some kind of digital rights management. For example when a media storage device is inserted into a device drive connected to a computer system the user may be presented with a proprietary player having a bit rate of approximately 128 Kbps which can present a highly compressed version of the original to the user so they will be able to experience the media file.

Disadvantageously a data stream of 128 Kbps is severely degraded from the original media. In many instances common compression ratios of original waveforms are approximately a ten to one compression ratio. A ten to one compression ratio typically results in degradation that is readily audible. Thus the user would be experiencing poor quality sound.

The other set of data stored by a CD DVD is an audio file that is accessed by a home music or video system and the user is able to experience the media file. Inserting the media storage device into the home audio video device enables the user to experience the media file in an uncompressed high quality manner replicating the original form of the media file.

In many instances all that is needed is a click of the mouse to strip the DRM protection off the media storage device and the media file becomes available for reproduction and distribution. Alternative means to defeat copyright protection of media files can be as easy as using a magic marker technique. In this technique a user marks the outer track on a media storage device e.g. a CD with a permanent marker e.g. a Sharpie. When the computer tries to read the first track it fails and by default then reads the next track usually where the music begins.

Additionally the media file copyright holders are being sold on the premise that a degraded media file is better than the original because you can t control the original on the computer. Therefore users may be less likely to use a computer to record capture reproduce a poor quality version. Once the user does capture the media file it is a mediocre sounding copy. This fundamental concept of recording companies giving a less than ideal data version on the CD is in the hope that the lack of sound quality will deter users from recording copying etc. the media files.

Alternative methods to provide protection and DRM include the use of time clock inefficiencies. For example one method is to indicate to the computer system that a media file begins further back than where it actually does which can introduce a series of numerous errors.

Home machines e.g. CD DVD players coupled with stereos in comparison to CD DVD drives coupled with a computer system are extremely tolerant of errors. Home CD DVD players are designed to read from CDs and DVDs that have been mistreated e.g. scratched left out of their jewel case etc. The home players have substantial error correcting capabilities. Thus if a CD DVD has data that was given a negative start time the home players detects that there is no such thing as a negative start time and then the home player commences playback.

However computers are more gullible meaning that they believe what you tell them. So if the CD DVD indicates a negative start time then the media storage device drive connected to a the computer system may not be able to play a particular media file.

There are also legacy issues and compatibility issues. The consumer is being given a faulty product. In many instances a disclaimer commonly found on current CDs and DVDs says that if the CD DVD does not function return the CD DVD for exchange. Many users may find this intermittent functionality unacceptable and having to return CD DVD may cause the user to postpone or more severely cancel future CD DVD purchases.

Applications are readily available via the Internet for the express purpose of producing an exact audio copy of media files on a media storage device. One example is Exact Audio Copy a freeware software program freely available on the Internet which produces an exact audio copy in .wav file format. Using Exact Audio Copy circumventing existing protection can be accomplished without modification to the existing technology. The Exact Audio Copy application bypasses the multisession data tracks and goes directly to the audio tracks. This can be accomplished by loading the Exact Audio Copy onto a computer inserting a CD and pressing a button or two to copy the audio tracks.

Additionally there are ripping applications readily available via the Internet that read the redbook which enables the ripping application to access the table of contents and the ripping application goes to the audio tracks where it can rip the audio or video file.

Further DRM protection methods implemented as a stand alone device meaning that the DRM and copy protection resides in software that resides on the disk are also problematic. This is because when circumvention of the DRM on the media storage device occurs little if anything can be done because the DRM controls are also bypassed. There may not be any communication with the computer or the Internet.

Software DRM solutions are additionally problematic for CDs and DVDs because they frequently do not provide DRM compliance and it is foreseen that software solutions will not provide DRM protection in the future particularly with the introduction of new computer operating systems and new media formats. These types of software DRM solutions are difficult to morph into a secure format once operating systems change.

In many instances demo media files are being copied and released prior to release of the actual media file. In other instances unauthorized copies of protected media files e.g. CDs and or DVDs are being released before the release of the music and or the movies. In some instances unauthorized copies of protected media files are outselling legally produced media files.

Further many of the media player recorder applications are designed to capture and record incoming media files in a manner that circumvents controls implemented by a media player application inherent to an operating system e.g. QuickTime for Apple MediaPlayer for Windows etc. or downloadable from the Internet e.g. RealPlayer LiquidAudio or those provided by webcasters e.g. PressPlay for controlling unauthorized recording of media files. Also many digital recording devices e.g. mini disc recorders MP3 recorders and the like can be coupled to a digital output of a computer system e.g. a USB port a S Pdif out and the like to capture the media file.

Thus once the data on the media storage device is digitally accessed and or stored by a computer system the likelihood of defeating existing DRM protection methods is greatly increased because the data can be stored for an indefinite period of time. While the copyright holders want to distribute their material to the widest possible audience they may also want to prevent digitally accessing the material because given enough time any method for providing DRM protection can be circumvented. Therefore it is desired to prevent a computer system from digitally accessing a copyright protected media file to prevent unauthorized storage transformation and or distribution of the media while still allowing a user to use and enjoy the media.

It is also desired to prevent recording applications such as Total Recorder Sound Forge and numerous others that are adapted to establish a connection with a kernel level driver operable within an operating system to capture and redirect the media file to create an unauthorized reproduction of a media file. It is also desired to prevent recording applications such as Total Recorder Sound Forge and numerous others that are adapted to establish a connection with a kernel level driver operable within an operating system to capture and redirect the media file to create an unauthorized reproduction of a media file. It is also desired to prevent recording applications from accessing a kernel mode media device driver and making unauthorized copies of copyrighted material through some available network e.g. wireline wireless P2P etc. or through a communicative coupling. It is further desirable to prevent access to a kernel based media device driver by a recording application for the purpose of making unauthorized copies of media files from or to alternative sources e.g. CD players DVD players removable hard drives personal electronic and or recording devices e.g. MP3 recorders and the like. Finally it is desirable to allow presentation of copyrighted material while preventing a computer system from digitally accessing the copyrighted material.

Current methods of preventing unauthorized reproduction of protected medial files on media storage device are inadequate.

Accordingly a need exists for a method and system that controls unauthorized reproduction of protected media files disposed on a media storage device. Embodiments of the present invention satisfy the above mentioned needs.

A method of preventing unauthorized reproduction of media disposed on a media storage device according to one embodiment is described. The method comprises installing a compliance mechanism on the computer system. The compliance mechanism is communicatively coupled with the computer system when installed thereon. The compliance mechanism is for enforcing compliance with a usage restriction applicable to the media. The method further includes obtaining control of a data input pathway operable on the computer system. The method further includes accessing data that is disposed on the media storage device that is associated with the usage restriction. The method further includes preventing the computer system from accessing the media digitally via the data pathway while enabling presentation of the protected media.

In another embodiment a system for selectively controlling access to protected media on a media storage device is described. In one embodiment the system is comprised of a compliance mechanism disposed on the media storage device. The compliance mechanism is configured to be installed on and communicatively coupled with a computer system. The compliance mechanism is for complying with a usage restriction applicable to the protected media. The system further includes a device drive coupled with the computer system for accessing the media storage device. The device drive is communicatively coupled with an analog sound rendering device coupled with the computer system. The system further includes the compliance mechanism being configured to prevent accessing the protected media via a digital data pathway on the computer system while presenting the protected media via the analog sound rendering device.

These and other objects and advantages of the present invention will no doubt become obvious to those of ordinary skill in the art after having read the following detailed description of the preferred embodiments which are illustrated in the various drawing figures.

Reference will now be made in detail to embodiments of the invention examples of which are illustrated in the accompanying drawings. While the invention will be described in conjunction with embodiments it will be understood that they are not intended to limit the invention to these embodiments. On the contrary the invention is intended to cover alternatives modifications and equivalents which may be included within the spirit and scope of the invention as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore in the following detailed description of the present invention numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. However to one of ordinary skill in the art the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known methods procedures components and circuits have not been described in detail as not to unnecessarily obscure aspects of the present invention.

Some portions of the detailed description which follows are presented in terms of procedures logic blocks processing and other symbolic representations of operations on data bits within a computing system or digital memory system. These descriptions and representations are the means used by those skilled in the data processing art to most effectively convey the substance of their work to others skilled in the art. A procedure logic block process etc. is herein and generally conceived to be a self consistent sequence of steps or instructions leading to a desired result. The steps are those involving physical manipulations of physical quantities. Usually though not necessarily these physical manipulations take the form of electrical or magnetic signals capable of being stored transferred combined compared and otherwise manipulated in a computing system or similar electronic computing device. For reasons of convenience and with reference to common usage these signals are referred to as bits values elements symbols characters terms numbers or the like with reference to the present invention.

It should be borne in mind however that all of these terms are to be interpreted as referencing physical manipulations and quantities and are merely convenient labels and are to be interpreted further in view of terms commonly used in the art. Unless specifically stated otherwise as apparent from the following discussions it is understood that discussions of the present invention refer to actions and processes of a computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and transforms data. The data is represented as physical electronic quantities within the computing system s registers and memories and is transformed into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the computing system s memories or registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present invention. To one skilled in the art the present invention may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid obscuring the present invention.

Embodiments of the present invention are discussed primarily in the context of a network of computer systems such as a network of desktop workstation laptop handheld and or other portable electronic device. For purposes of the present application the term portable electronic device is not intended to be limited solely to conventional handheld or portable computers. Instead the term portable electronic device is also intended to include many mobile electronic devices. Such mobile devices include but are not limited to portable CD players MP3 players mobile phones portable recording devices satellite radios portable video playback devices digital projectors personal video eyewear and other personal digital devices. Additionally embodiments of the present invention are also well suited for implementation with theater presentation systems for public and or private presentation in theaters auditoriums convention centers etc.

Computer system of comprises an address data bus for communicating information one or more central processors coupled to bus for processing information and instructions. Central processor s can be a microprocessor or any alternative type of processor. Computer system also includes a computer usable volatile memory e.g. random access memory RAM static RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous dynamic RAM SDRAM double data rate RAM DDR RAM etc. coupled to bus for storing information and instructions for processor s . Computer system further includes a computer usable non volatile memory e.g. read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electronically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable PROM EEPROM flash memory a type of EEPROM etc. coupled to bus for storing static information and instructions for processor s . In one embodiment non volatile memory can be removable.

System also includes one or more signal generating and receiving devices e.g. signal input output device s coupled to bus for enabling computer to interface with other electronic devices. Communication interface can include wired and or wireless communication functionality. For example in one embodiment communication interface is a serial communication port but can alternatively be one of a number of well known communication standards and protocols e.g. a parallel port an Ethernet adapter a FireWire IEEE 1394 interface a Universal Serial Bus USB a small computer system interface SCSI an infrared IR communication port a Bluetooth wireless communication adapter a broadband connection a satellite link an Internet feed a cable modem and the like. In another embodiment a digital subscriber line DSL can be implemented as signal input output device . In such an instance communication interface may include a DSL modem. In embodiments of the present invention these components are disposed on a circuit board which is contained within a cover assembly.

System can also include an optional display device coupled to bus for displaying video graphics and or alphanumeric characters. It is noted that display device can be a CRT cathode ray tube a thin CRT TCRT a liquid crystal display LCD a plasma display a field emission display FED video eyewear a projection device e.g. an LCD a digital light projector DLP a movie theater projection system and the like. or any other display device suitable for displaying video graphics and alphanumeric characters recognizable to a user.

Computer system of further includes an optional alphanumeric input device coupled to bus for communicating information and command selections to processor s in one embodiment. Alphanumeric input device is coupled to bus and includes alphanumeric and function keys. Computer can also include an optional cursor control device coupled to bus for communicating user input information and command selections to processor s . Cursor control device can be implemented using a number of well known devices such as a mouse a trackball a track pad a joy stick a optical tracking device a touch screen etc. It is noted that a cursor can be directed and or activated via input from alphanumeric input device using special keys and key sequence commands. It is further noted that directing and or activating the cursor can be accomplished by alternative means e.g. voice activated commands provided computer system is configured with such functionality.

Computer of can also include one or more computer usable data storage device s coupled to bus for storing instructions and information in one embodiment of the present invention. In one embodiment data storage device can be a magnetic storage device e.g. a hard disk drive a floppy disk drive a zip drive or other magnetic storage device. In another embodiment data storage device can be an optical storage device e.g. a CD compact disc a DVD digital versatile disc or other alternative optical storage device. Alternatively any combination of magnetic optical and alternative storage devices can be implemented e.g. a RAID random array of independent disks or random array of inexpensive discs configuration. It is noted that data storage device can be located internal and or external of system and communicatively coupled with system utilizing wired and or wireless communication technology thereby providing expanded storage and functionality to system . It is further noted that nearly any portable electronic device not shown can also be communicatively coupled with system via utilization of wired and or wireless technology thereby expanding the functionality of system .

Computer of also includes an analog sound rendering device e.g. a sound card that is communicatively coupled with data storage device via signal path . In an embodiment of the present invention data storage device is a CD DVD device drive. Typically CD DVD device drives have a connector not shown that allows coupling a device drive directly with an audio card e.g. analog sound rendering device using a cable e.g. signal path . When the device drive is playing an audio CD the device drive emits the audio data out of the connector via signal path to the sound card. In an embodiment of the present invention the data is sent as an analog signal directly to device via signal path . As a result the data bypasses data bus and cannot be accessed by processor . It is appreciated that analog sound rendering device may be a sound rendering module that is disposed integrally on circuit board in embodiments of the present invention.

Network includes a web server and a content server which are communicatively coupled to Internet . Further web server and content server can be communicatively coupled without utilizing Internet as shown. Web server content server and client computers and can communicate with each other. It is noted that computers and servers of network are well suited to be communicatively coupled in various implementations. For example web server content server and client computer systems and of network can be communicatively coupled via wired communication technology e.g. twisted pair cabling fiber optics coaxial cable etc. or wireless communication technology or a combination of wired and wireless communication technology.

Still referring to it is noted that web server content server and client computer systems and can in one embodiment be each implemented in a manner similar to computer system of . However the server and computer systems in network are not limited to such implementation. Additionally web server and content server can perform various functionalities within network . It is also noted that in one embodiment web server and content server can both be disposed on a single or a plurality of physical computer systems.

Further it is noted that network can operate with and deliver any type of media content e.g. audio video multimedia graphics information data software programs etc. in any format. In one embodiment content server can provide audio and video files to client computers via Internet .

There are currently two types of copyright licenses recognized by the digital millennium copyright act DMCA for the protection of broadcasted copyrighted material. One of the broadcast copyright licenses is a compulsory license also referred to as a statutory license. A statutory license is defined as a non interactive license meaning the user cannot select the song. Further a caveat of this type of broadcast license is that a user must not be able to select a particular music file for the purpose of recording it to the user s computer system or other storage device. Another caveat of a statutory license is that a media file is not available more than once for a given period of time. In one example the period of time can be three hours.

The other type of broadcast license recognized by the DMCA is an interactive licensing agreement. An interactive licensing agreement is commonly with the copyright holder e.g. a record company the artist etc. wherein the copyright holder grants permission for a server e.g. web server and or content server to broadcast copyrighted material. Under an interactive licensing agreement there are a variety of ways that copyrighted material e.g. music files can be broadcast. For example one manner in which music files can be broadcast is to allow the user to select and listen to a particular sound recording but without the user enabled to make a sound recording. This is commonly referred to as an interactive with no save license meaning that the end user is unable to save or store the media content file in a relatively permanent manner. Additionally another manner in which music files can be broadcast is to allow a user to not only select and listen to a particular music file but additionally allow the user to save that particularly music file to disc and or burn the music file to a CD MP3 player or other portable electronic device. This is commonly referred to as an interactive with save license meaning that the end user is enabled to save store or burn to CD the media content file.

It is noted that the DMCA allows for the perfect reproduction of the sound recording. A perfect copy of a sound recording is a one to one mapping of the original sound recording into a digitized form such that the perfect copy is virtually indistinguishable and or has no audible differences from the original recording.

In one embodiment CCM copyright compliance mechanism can be stored in web server and or content server of network and is configured to be installed into each client computer system e.g. and enabled to access the media files stored within content server and or web server . Alternatively copyright compliance mechanism can be externally disposed and communicatively coupled with a client computer system via e.g. a portable media device not shown . In yet another embodiment CCM can be configured to be operable from a media storage device e.g. upon which media files may be disposed.

Copyright compliance mechanism is configured to be operable while having portions of components entire components combinations of components disposed within one or more memory units and or data storage devices of a computer system e.g. and or .

Additionally CCM can be readily updated e.g. via Internet to reflect changes or developments in the DMCA copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements pertaining to any media file changes in current media player applications and or the development of new media player applications or to counteract subversive and or hacker like attempts to unlawfully obtain one or more media files. It is noted that updating CCM can include but is not limited to updating portions of components entire components and or combinations of components of CCM .

Referring to CCM can include instructions for enabling client computer system to interact with web server and content server of network . Instructions enable client computer system to interact with servers e.g. and in a network e.g. .

The copyright compliance mechanism also includes in one embodiment a user ID generator for generating a user ID or user key and one or more cookie s which contain s information specific to the user and the user s computer system e.g. . In one embodiment the user ID and the cookie s are installed in computer system prior to installation of the remaining components of the CCM . It is noted that the presence of a valid cookie s and a valid user ID user key are verified by web server before the remaining components of a CCM can be installed within one embodiment of the present invention. Additionally the user ID user key can contain but is not limited to the user s name the user s address the user s credit card number an online payment account number a verified email address and an identity username and password selected by the user.

Furthermore the cookie can contain but is not limited to information specific to the user information regarding the user s computer system e.g. types of media applications operational therewithin a unique identifier associated with computer system e.g. a MAC address an IP address and or the serial number of the central processing unit CPU operable on computer system and other information specific to the computer system and its user.

Additionally in another embodiment user biometrics may be combined with computer system data and user data and incorporated into the generation of a user ID. Alternatively biometric data may be used in a stand alone implementation in the generation of the user ID. Types of biometric data that may be utilized to provide a user ID and or authorization may include but is not limited to fingerprint data retinal scan data handprint data facial recognition data and the like.

It is noted that the information regarding the client computer system e.g. the user of system and an access key described herein can be collectively referred to as authorization data.

Advantageously with information regarding the user and the user s computer system e.g. web server can determine when a user of one computer system e.g. has given their username and password to another user using another computer system e.g. . Because the username password and the user s computer system are closely associated web server can prevent unauthorized access to copyrighted media content in one embodiment. It is noted that if web server detects unauthorized sharing of usernames and passwords it can block the user of computer system as well as other users who unlawfully obtained the username and password from future access to copyrighted media content available through web server . Web server can invoke blocking for any specified period of time e.g. for a matter of minutes hours months years or longer or permanently.

Still referring to copyright compliance mechanism further includes a coder decoder codec that in one embodiment is adapted to perform but is not limited to encoding decoding of media files compressing decompressing of media files and detecting that delivered media files are encrypted as prescribed by CCM . In the present embodiment coder decoder can also extract key fields from a header attached to each media content file for in part verification that the file originated from a content server e.g. . It is noted that CCM can include one or more codecs similar to codec .

In the present embodiment coder decoder can also perform a periodic and repeated check of the media file while the media file is passed to the media player application e.g. in a frame by frame basis or in a buffer by buffer basis to ensure that CCM rules are being enforced at any particular moment during media playback. It is noted that differing coder decoders can be utilized in conjunction with various types of copyrighted media content including but not limited to audio files video files graphical files alphanumeric files and the like such that any type of media content file can be protected in accordance with embodiments of the present invention.

Within copyright compliance mechanism also includes one or more agent programs which are configured to engage in dialogs and negotiate and coordinate transfer of information between a computer system e.g. or a server e.g. web server and or content server and or media player applications with or without recording functionality that are operable within a client computer system in one embodiment. In the present embodiment agent program can also be configured to maintain system state verify that other components are being utilized simultaneously to be autonomously functional without knowledge of the client and can also present messages e.g. error messages media information advertising etc. via a display window or electronic mail. This enables detection of proper skin implementation and detection of those applications that are running It is noted that agent programs are well known in the art and can be implemented in a variety of ways in accordance with the present embodiment.

Copyright compliance mechanism also includes one or more system hooks in one embodiment of the present invention. A system hook is in one embodiment a library that is installed in a computer system e.g. that intercepts system wide events. For example a system hook in conjunction with skins can govern certain properties and or functionalities of media player applications operating within the client computer system e.g. including but not limited to mouse click shortcuts keyboard shortcuts standard system accelerators progress bars save functions pause functions rewind functions skip track functions forward track preview copying to CD copying to a portable electronic device and the like.

It is noted that the term govern or governing for purposes of the present invention can refer to a disabling deactivating enabling activating etc. of a property or function. Governing can also refer to an exclusion of that function or property such that a function or property may be operable but unable to perform in the manner originally intended. For example during the playing of a media file the progress bar may be selected and moved from one location on the progress line to another without having an effect on the play of the media file.

Within it is further noted that codec compares the information for the media player application operating on client computer system e.g. with a list of signatures associated with known media recording applications. In one embodiment the signature can be but is not limited to being a unique identifier of a media player application and which can consist of the window class of the application along with a product name string which is part of the window title for the application. Advantageously when new media player applications are developed their signatures can be readily added to the signature list via an update of CCM described herein.

The following C source code is an exemplary implementation of the portion of a codec for performing media player application detection in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention. In another embodiment the following source code can be modified to detect kernel streaming mechanisms operable within a client system e.g. .

Within it is further noted that codec can also selectively suppress waveform input output operations to prevent recording of copyrighted media on a client computer system e.g. . For example codec subsequent to detection of bundled media player applications operational in a client computer system e.g. can stop or disrupt the playing of a media content file. This can be accomplished in one embodiment by redirecting and or diverting certain data pathways that are commonly used for recording such that the utilized data pathway is governed by the copyright compliance mechanism . In one embodiment this can be performed within a driver shim e.g. wave driver shim of B C and D.

A driver shim can be utilized for nearly any software output device such as a standard Windows waveform output device e.g. Windows Media Player or hardware output device e.g. speakers or headphones . Client computer system is configured such that the driver shim e.g. appears as the default waveform media device to client level application programs. Thus requests for processing of waveform media input and or output will pass through the driver shim prior to being forwarded to the actual waveform audio driver e.g. media device driver of . Such waveform input output suppression can be triggered by other components e.g. agent of CCM to be active when a recording operation is initiated by a client computer system e.g. during the play back of media files which are subject to the DMCA.

It is noted that alternative driver shims can be implemented for nearly any waveform output device including but not limited to a Windows Media Player. It is further noted that the driver shim can be implemented for nearly any media in nearly any format including but not limited to audio media files audio input and output devices video graphic and or alphanumeric media files and video input and output devices.

The following C source code is an exemplary implementation of a portion of a codec and or a custom media device driver for diverting and or redirecting certain data pathways that are commonly used for recording of media content in accordance with an embodiment of the present invention.

It is noted that when properly configured system hook can govern nearly any function or property within nearly any media player application that may be operational within a client computer system e.g. . In one embodiment system hook is a DLL dynamic link library file. It is further noted that system hooks are well known in the art and are a standard facility in a Microsoft Windows operating environment and accordingly can be implemented in a variety of ways. However it is also noted that system hook can be readily adapted for implementation in alternative operating systems e.g. Apple operating systems Sun Solaris operating systems Linux operating systems and nearly any other operating system.

In copyright compliance mechanism also includes one or more skins which can be designed to be installed in a client computer system e.g. and . In one embodiment skins are utilized to assist in client side compliance with the DMCA digital millennium copyright act regarding copyrighted media content. Skins are customizable interfaces that in one embodiment are displayed on a display device e.g. of computer system and provide functionalities for user interaction of delivered media content. Additionally skins can also provide a display of information relative to the media content file including but not limited to song title artist name album title artist biography and other features such as purchase inquiries advertising and the like.

Furthermore when system hook is unable to govern a function of the media player application operable on a client computer system e.g. such that client computer system could be in non compliance with DMCA and or RIAA restrictions a skin can be implemented to provide compliance.

Differing skins can be implemented depending upon the restrictions applicable e.g. DMCA and or RIAA to each media content file. For example in one embodiment a skin may be configured for utilization with a media content file protected under a non interactive agreement DMCA such that skin may not include a pause function a stop function a selector function and or a save function etc. Another skin e g skin may in one embodiment be configured to be utilized with a media content file protected under an interactive with no save agreement DMCA such that skin may include a pause function a stop function a selector function and for those media files having an interactive with save agreement a save or a burn to CD function.

Still referring to it is further noted that in the present embodiment each skin can have a unique name and signature. In one embodiment skin can be implemented in part through the utilization of an MD message digest 5 hash table or similar algorithm. An MD5 hash table can in one implementation be a check sum algorithm. It is well known in the art that a skin e.g. skin can be renamed and or modified to incorporate additional features and or functionalities in an unauthorized manner. Since modification of the skin would change the check sum and or MD5 hash without knowledge of the MD5 hash table changing the name or modification of the skin may simply serve to disable the skin in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention. Since copyright compliance mechanism CCM verifies skin MD5 hash tables advantageously provide a deterrent against modifications made to the skin .

In one embodiment CCM also includes one or more custom media device driver s for providing an even greater measure of control over the media stream while increasing compliance reliability. A client computer system e.g. can be configured to utilize a custom media device application e.g. custom media device of C and D to control unauthorized recording of media content files. A custom media device application can be but is not limited to a custom media audio device application for media files having sound content a custom video device application for media files having graphical and or alphanumeric content etc. In one embodiment custom media device of is an emulation of the custom media device driver . With reference to audio media the emulation is performed in a waveform audio driver associated with custom media device . Driver is configured to receive a media file being outputted by system prior to the media file being sent to a media output device e.g. media output device and or a media output application e.g. recording application . Examples of a media output device includes but is not limited to a video card for video files a sound card for audio files etc. Examples of a recording application can include but is not limited to CD burner applications for writing to another CDs ripper applications which capture the media file and change the format of the media file e.g. from a CD audio file to an .mpeg audio file and or a .wav file and or an ogg vorbis file and various other media formats. In one embodiment client computer system is configured with a custom media device driver emulating custom media device and which is system s default device driver for media file output. In one embodiment an existing GUI graphical user interface can be utilized or a GUI can be provided e.g. by utilization of skin or a custom web based player application or as part of a CCM installation bundle for forcing or requiring system to have driver as the default driver.

Therefore when a media content file is received by system from server the media content file is playable provided the media content file passes through the custom media device application e.g. of emulated from custom media device driver prior to being outputted. However if an alternative media player application is selected delivered media files from server will not play on system .

Thus secured media player applications would issue a media request to the driver e.g. for the custom media device which then performs necessary media input suppression e.g. waveform suppression for audio files prior to forwarding the request to the default Windows media driver e.g. waveform audio driver for audio files .

Within it is noted that requests for non restricted media files can pass directly through custom media device driver to a Windows waveform audio driver operable on system thus reducing instances of incompatibilities with existing media player applications that utilize waveform media e.g. audio video etc. . Additionally media player applications that do not support secured media would be unaffected. It is further noted that for either secured media or non restricted media e.g. audio media files waveform input suppression can be triggered by other components of CCM e.g. agents system hooks and skins or a combination thereof to be active when a recording operation is initiated simultaneously with playback of secured media files e.g. audio files . Custom device drivers are well known and can be coded and implemented in a variety of ways including but not limited to those found at developers network web sites e.g. a Microsoft or alternative OS operating system developer web sites .

Advantageously by virtue of system being configured with a custom media device as the default device driver e.g. of C and D that is an emulation of a custom media device driver those media player applications that require their particular device driver to be the default driver e.g. Total Recorder etc. are rendered non functional for secured media. Further advantageous is that an emulated custom media device provides no native support for those media player applications used as a recording mechanism e.g. DirectSound capture direct sound of B C and D etc. that are able to bypass user mode drivers for most media devices. Additionally by virtue of the media content being sent through device driver thus effectively disabling unauthorized saving recording of media files in one embodiment media files that are delivered in a secured delivery system do not have to be encrypted although in another embodiment they still may be encrypted. By virtue of non encrypted media files utilizing less storage space and network resources than encrypted media files networks having limited resources can utilize the functionalities of driver of CCM to provide compliance with copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements applicable with a media content file without having the processing overhead of encrypted media files.

Client computer system can communicatively couple with a network e.g. to request a media file a list of available media files or a play list of audio files e.g. MP3 files etc. In response web server determines if the request originates from a registered user authorized to receive media files associated with the request. If the user is not registered with the network web server can initiate a registration process with the requesting client . Client registration can be accomplished in a variety of ways. For example web server may deliver to a client a registration form having various text entry fields into which the user can enter required information. A variety of information can be requested from the user by web server including but not limited to user s name address phone number credit card number online payment account number biometric identification e.g. fingerprint retinal scan etc. verifiable email address and the like. In addition registration can in one embodiment include the user selecting a username and password.

Still referring to web server can in one embodiment detect information related to the client s computer system and store that information in a user media database . For example web server can detect a unique identifier of client computer system . In one embodiment the unique identifier can be the MAC address of a NIC network interface card of client computer system or the MAC address of the network interface adapter integrated on the motherboard of system . It is understood that a NIC enables a client computer system to access web server via a network such as Internet . It is well known that each NIC typically has a unique identifying number MAC address. Further web server can in one embodiment detect and store also in database information regarding the types s of media player application s e.g. Windows Media Player Real Player iTunes player Apple Live 365 player and those media player applications having recording functionality e.g. Total Recorder Cool Edit 2000 Sound Forge Sound Recorder Super MP3 Recorder and the like that are present and operable in client computer system . In one embodiment the client information is verified for accuracy and is then stored in a user database e.g. within web server .

Subsequent to registration completion creation of the user ID and password and obtaining information regarding client computer system all or part of this information can be installed in client computer system . In one embodiment client computer system information can be in the form of a cookie. Web server then verifies that the user and client computer system data is properly installed therein and that their integrity has not been compromised. Subsequently web server installs a copyright compliance mechanism e.g. into the client s computer system e.g. in one embodiment of the present invention. It is noted that web server may not initiate installation of CCM until the user ID password and client computer system information is verified. A variety of common techniques can be employed to install an entire CCM portions of its components entire components and or combinations or a function of its components. For example copyright compliance mechanism can be installed in a hidden directory within client computer system thereby preventing unauthorized access to it. In one embodiment it is noted that unless CCM is installed in client computer system its user will not be able to request access or have delivered thereto media files stored by web server and or content server .

Referring still to upon completion of client registration and installation of CCM client computer system can then request a media play list or a plurality of play lists etc. In response web server determines whether the user of client computer system is authorized to receive the media play list associated with the request. In one embodiment web server can request the user s username and password. Alternatively web server can utilize user database to verify that computer is authorized to receive a media play list. If client computer is not authorized web server can initiate client registration as described herein. Additionally web server can disconnect computer or redirect it to an alternative web site. Regardless if the user and client computer system are not authorized web server will not provide the requested play list to client computer system .

However if client computer system is authorized web server can check copyright compliance mechanism within data base to determine if it or any of the components therein have been updated since the last time client computer system logged in to web server . If a component of CCM has been updated web server can install the updated component and or a more current version of CCM into client computer system e.g. via Internet . If CCM has not been updated web server can then deliver the requested media play list to system via Internet along with an appended user key or user identification ID . It is noted that user database can also include data for one or more media play lists that can be utilized to provide a media play list to client computer system . Subsequently the user of client computer system can utilize the received media play list in combination with the media player application operating on system to transmit a delivery request for one or more desired pieces of media content from web server . It is noted that the delivery request contains the user key for validation purposes.

Still referring to upon receiving the media content delivery request web server can then check the validity of the requesting media application and the attached user key. In one embodiment web server can utilize user database to check their validity. If either or both are invalid web server in one embodiment can redirect unauthorized client computer system to an alternative destination to prevent abuse of the system. However if both the requesting media application and the user key are valid CCM verifies that skins are installed in client computer system . Additionally CCM further verifies that system hook s have been run or are running to govern certain functions of those media player applications operable within client computer system that are known to provide non compliance with one or more restricted use standards such as the DMCA and or the RIAA. Additionally CCM further diverts and or redirects certain pathways that are commonly used for recording e.g. driver of device of device of and driver of . Once CCM has performed the above described functions web server then in one embodiment issues to the client computer a redirect command to the current address location of the desired media file content along with an optional time sensitive access key e.g. for that hour day or other defined timeframe.

In response to the client computer system receiving the redirect command from web server the media player application operating on client computer system automatically transmits a new request and the time sensitive access key to content server for delivery of one or more desired pieces of media content. The validity of the time sensitive access key is checked by content server . If invalid unauthorized client computer is redirected by content server to protect against abuse of the system and unauthorized access to content server . If the time sensitive access key is valid content server retrieves the desired media content from content database and delivers it to client computer system . It is noted that in one embodiment the delivered media content can be stored in hidden directories and or custom file systems that may be hidden within client computer system thereby preventing future unauthorized distribution. In one embodiment an HTTP hypertext transfer protocol file delivery system is used to deliver the requested media files meaning that the media files are delivered in their entirety to client computer system as compared to streaming media which delivers small portions of the media file.

Still referring to it is noted that each media file has had in one embodiment a header attached therewith prior to delivery of the media file. In one embodiment the header can contain information relating to the media file e.g. title or media ID media data such as size type of data and the like. The header can also contain a sequence or key that is recognizable to copyright compliance mechanism that identifies the media file as originating from a content server . In one embodiment the header sequence key can also contain instructions for invoking the licensing agreements and or copyright restrictions that are applicable to that particular media file.

Additionally if licensing agreements and or copyright restrictions are changed developed or created or if new media player applications with or without recording functionality are developed CCM has appropriate modifications made to portions of components entire components combinations of components and or the entire CCM to enable continued compliance with licensing agreements and or copyright restrictions. Furthermore subsequent to modification of copyright compliance mechanism modified portions of or the entire updated CCM can be installed in client computer system in a variety of ways. For example the updated CCM can be installed during client interaction with web server during user log in and or while client computer system is receiving the keyed play list.

Referring still to it is further noted that in one embodiment the media files and attached headers can be encrypted prior to being stored within content server . In one embodiment the media files can be encrypted utilizing randomly generated keys. Alternatively variable length keys can be utilized for encryption. It is noted that the key to decrypt the encrypted media files can be stored in database content database or in some combination of databases and . It is further noted that the messages being passed back and forth between client computer system and web server can also be encrypted thereby protecting the media files and the data being exchanged from unauthorized use or access. There are a variety of encryption mechanisms and programs that can be implemented to encrypt this data including but not limited to exclusive OR shifting with adds public domain encryption programs such as Blowfish and non public domain encryption mechanisms. It is also noted that each media file can be uniquely encrypted such that if the encryption code is cracked for one media file it is not applicable to other media files. Alternatively groups of media files can be similarly encrypted. Furthermore in another embodiment the media files may not be encrypted when being delivered to a webcaster known to utilize a proprietary media player application e.g. custom media device driver .

Subsequent to media file decryption the media file may be passed through CCM e.g. coder decoder to a media player application operating on client computer system e.g. playback application of B C D and which can then access and utilize the delivered high fidelity media content enabling its user s to experience the media content e.g. listen to it watch it view it or the like. In one embodiment of the present invention a specialized or custom media player may or may not be required to experience the media content e.g. skin of . A skin may be necessary when CCM cannot modify an industry standard media player application to comply with copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements in accordance with the DMCA. Alternatively an industry standard media player can be utilized by client computer system to experience the media content. Typically many media player applications are available and can include but are not limited to Windows Media Player for PCs personal computers iTunes Player or QuickTime for Apple computers and XMMS player for computers utilizing a Linux operating system. Regardless of the media player application utilized while the media file is passed to the media player application e.g. in a frame by frame basis or in a buffer coder decoder will repeatedly ensure that CCM rules are being enforced at any particular moment during media playback shown as step of .

As the media file content is delivered to the media player application periodically e.g. after a specified number of frames after a defined period of time or any desired time or data period coder decoder repeatedly determines whether or not all the rules as defined by CCM are enforced. If the rules are not enforced e.g. a user opening up a recording application such as Total Recorder or an alternative application the presentation of the media content is in one embodiment suspended or halted. In another embodiment the presentation of the media content can be modified to output the media content in a non audibly e.g. silence . In yet another embodiment the media content may be audible but recording functionality can be disabled such that the media content cannot be recorded. These presentation stoppages are collectively shown as step of .

If the rules in accordance with CCM are enforced the codec decoder retrieves a subsequent portion of the media content that is stored locally in client computer system . The newly retrieved portion of the media file is then presented by the client s media player application. While the newly retrieved portion is presented CCM then again checks that the rules are enforced and retrieves an additional portion of the media file or suspends presentation of the media file if the rules are not being enforced. These operations are performed repeatedly throughout the playback of the media file in a loop environment until the media file s contents have been presented in their entirety. Advantageously by constantly monitoring during playing of media files CCM can detect undesired activities and enforces those rules as defined by CCM .

In one embodiment a copyright compliance mechanism is shown as being communicatively coupled with a media playback application via coupling . Therefore CCM is enabled to communicate with playback application . In one embodiment CCM can be integrated into a media playback application. CCM is also coupled to and controls a selectable switch in wave shim driver as described in via coupling . CCM is further coupled to and controls a selectable switch in direct sound via coupling . Depending upon the copyright restrictions and licensing agreements applicable to an incoming media file e.g. CCM controls whether switches and are open shown thus preventing incoming media from reaching a media recording application or closed not shown to allow recording of incoming media .

For example incoming media may originate from a content server e.g. coupled to system . In another example incoming media may originate from a personal recording electronic device e.g. a MP3 player recorder or similar device coupled to system . Alternatively incoming media may originate from a magnetic optical or alternative media storage device inserted into a media device player coupled to system e.g. a CD or DVD inserted into a CD or DVD player a hard disk in a hot swappable hard drive an SD secure digital card inserted into a SD reader and the like. In yet another example incoming media may originate from another media player application or media recording application. Incoming media may also originate from but is not limited to a satellite radio feed e.g. XM radio a personal communication device e.g. a mobile phone a cable television radio input e.g. DMX digital music express a digital distribution and or a public presentation source via a network Internet or other communication connection pay per view and or pay per play system or a set top box. It is noted that incoming media can originate from nearly any source that can be coupled to system . However regardless of the source of incoming media embodiments of the present invention described herein can prevent unauthorized recording of the media .

Media device driver which in one embodiment may be a software driver for a sound card coupled to system having a media output device e.g. speakers or headphones coupled therewith for media files having audio content. In another implementation media device driver may be a software driver for a video card coupled with a display device e.g. for displaying media files having alphanumeric and or graphical content and so on. With reference to audio files it is well known that a majority of recording applications assume a computer system e.g. has a sound card disposed therein providing full duplex sound functionality to system . This means media output driver can simultaneously cause playback and recording of incoming media files . For example media device driver can playback media along wave out line to media output device e.g. speakers for audible playback via wave out line while outputting media on wave out line to eventually reach recording application .

For purposes of B C and D the terms wave in line and wave out line are referenced from the perspective of media device driver . Additionally for the most part wave in lines are depicted downwardly and wave out lines are depicted upwardly in B C and D.

Continuing with playback application is coupled with an operating system O S multimedia subsystem and direct sound via wave in lines and respectively. O S multimedia subsystem is coupled to a wave shim driver via wave in line and wave out line . O S multimedia subsystem is also coupled to a recording application via wave out line . Operating system O S multimedia subsystem can be any O S multimedia subsystem e.g. a Windows multimedia subsystem for system operating under a Microsoft O S a QuickTime multimedia subsystem for system operating under an Apple O S and so on. Playback application is also coupled with direct sound via wave in line .

Direct sound in one embodiment may represent access to a hardware acceleration feature in a standard audio device enabling lower level access to components within media device driver . In another embodiment direct sound may represent a path that can be used by a recording application e.g. Total Recorder that can be further configured to bypass the default device driver e.g. media device driver to capture incoming media for recording. For example direct sound can be enabled to capture incoming media via wave in line and unlawfully output media to a recording application via wave out line as well as media eventually going to media device driver the standard default driver.

Still referring to wave shim driver is coupled with media device driver via wave in line and wave out line . Media device driver is coupled with direct sound via wave in line which is shown to converge with wave in line at media device driver . Media device driver is also coupled with direct sound via wave out line .

Wave out lines and are shown to diverge from wave out line at media device driver into separate paths. Wave out line is coupled to wave shim driver and wave out line is coupled to direct sound . When selectable switch and are open shown incoming media cannot flow to recording application thus preventing unauthorized recording of it.

For example incoming media is received at playback application . Playback application activates and communicates to CCM regarding copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements applicable to incoming media . If recording restrictions apply to media CCM can in one embodiment open switches and thereby blocking access to recording application to effectively preventing unauthorized recording of media . In one embodiment CCM can detect if system is configured with direct sound selected as the default driver to capture incoming media via wave in line or a recording application is detected and or a hardware accelerator is active such that wave driver shim can be bypassed by direct sound . Upon detection CCM can control switch such that the output path wave out line to recording application is blocked. It is further noted that CCM can detect media recording applications and devices as described herein with reference to .

Alternatively if media device driver is selected as the default driver incoming media is output from playback application to O S multimedia subsystem via wave in line . From subsystem media is output to wave shim driver via wave in line . The wave shim driver was described herein with reference to . Media is output from wave shim driver to media device driver via wave in line . Once received by media device driver media can be output via wave out line to a media output device coupled therewith via wave out line . Additionally media device driver can simultaneously output media on wave out line back to wave shim driver . Dependent upon recording restrictions applicable to media CCM can in one embodiment close switch not shown as closed thereby allowing media to be output from wave shim driver to subsystem via wave out line and then to recording application via wave out line . Alternatively CCM can also open switch thereby preventing media from reaching recording application .

It is particularly noted that by virtue of CCM controlling both switches and and therefore controlling wave out line and wave out line leading into recording application incoming media files e.g. media can be prevented from being recorded in an unauthorized manner in accordance with applicable copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements related to the incoming media . It is also noted that embodiments of the present invention in no way interfere with or inhibit the playback of incoming media .

Diagram B of is similar to diagram A of with a few changes. Particularly diagram B includes a custom media device communicatively interposed between and coupled to O S multimedia subsystem and wave shim driver . Custom media device is coupled to O S multimedia subsystem via wave in line and wave out line . Custom media device is coupled with wave shim driver via wave in line and wave out line . Additionally custom media device is coupled with direct sound via wave in line which converges with wave in line and wave out line which diverges from wave out line in one embodiment.

Diagram B also includes a media hardware output device that is coupled to media device hardware driver via line . Media hardware output device can be but is not limited to a sound card for audio playback a video card for video graphical alphanumeric etc output and the like.

In one embodiment CCM is communicatively coupled with playback application via coupling waveform driver shim via coupling and custom media device via coupling . CCM is coupled to and controls a selectable switch in waveform driver shim via coupling . CCM is also coupled to and controls a selectable switch in custom audio device via coupling . Depending upon the copyright restrictions and licensing agreements applicable to an incoming media file e.g. media CCM controls whether switches and are open shown thus preventing the incoming media from reaching a recording application or closed not shown so as to allow recording of the incoming media .

Continuing with direct sound is shown coupled with custom media device via wave in line instead of being coupled with media device driver . In one embodiment custom audio device mandates explicit selection through system meaning that custom audio device needs to be selected as a default driver of system . By virtue of having the selection of custom media device as the default driver of system the data path necessary for direct sound to capture the media content can be selectively closed.

For example incoming media originating from nearly any source described herein with reference to is received by media playback application of system . Playback application communicates to CCM via coupling to determine whether incoming media is protected by any copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements. Playback application communicates with CCM to control switch and accordingly. For example if recording of incoming media would violate applicable restrictions and or agreements and therefore switch is in an open position as shown such that the output path to recording application e.g. wave out line and or wave out line is effectively blocked thereby preventing unauthorized recording of media .

Alternatively if media device driver is selected as the default driver incoming media continues from O S multimedia subsystem through custom media device wave driver shim and into media device driver where media can be simultaneously output to media output device via line and output on wave out line and outputted by media device driver to wave shim driver on wave out line . However by virtue of CCM controlling switch wave out line which eventually leads to recording application is blocked thus effectively preventing unauthorized recording of media .

It is particularly noted that by virtue of CCM controlling both switches and and therefore controlling wave out line and wave out line any incoming media files e.g. incoming media can be prevented from being recorded in an unauthorized manner in accordance with applicable copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements related to the incoming media .

Still referring to it is further noted that custom media device allows for unfettered playback of incoming media . Additionally at any time during playback of media custom media device can be dynamically activated by CCM .

Diagram C of is similar to diagram B of with a few changes. Particularly media hardware output device that is coupled with a media device driver . In one embodiment media hardware output device is shown to include a switch controlled by CCM via communication line similar to switches and for controlling output of incoming media . Diagram C includes media hardware output device that is coupled with media device driver . In one embodiment media hardware output device can be a S PDIF Sony Phillips Digital Interface card for providing multiple outputs e.g. an analog output and a digital output . An alternative media hardware output device providing similar digital output can also be implemented as device including but not limited to a USB universal serial bus output device and or an externally accessible USB port located on system a FireWire IEEE1394 output device and or an externally accessible FireWire port located on system with wireline or wireless communication functionality.

In one embodiment CCM is communicatively coupled with playback application via coupling waveform driver shim via coupling custom media device via coupling and media hardware output device via coupling . CCM is coupled to and controls a selectable switch in waveform driver shim via coupling . CCM is also coupled to and controls a selectable switch in custom audio device via coupling . CCM is further coupled to and controls a selectable switch in media hardware output device via connection . Depending upon the copyright restrictions and licensing agreements applicable to an incoming media file e.g. media CCM controls whether switches and are open shown thus preventing the incoming media from reaching a recording application or closed not shown so as to allow recording of the incoming media . Additionally CCM controls whether switch is open shown thus preventing incoming media from being output from digital output of media hardware output device or closed not shown to allow incoming media to be output from media hardware output device .

By controlling media hardware output device copyright compliance mechanism can prevent unauthorized output of incoming media to e.g. a digital recording device that may be coupled with digital output of media hardware output device . Accordingly in one embodiment CCM is enabled to also detect digital recording devices that may be coupled to a digital output line e.g. of a media hardware output device e.g. . Examples of a digital recording device that can be coupled to media hardware output device includes but is not limited to mini disc recorders MP3 recorders personal digital recorders digital recording devices coupled with multimedia systems personal communication devices set top boxes and or nearly any digital device that can capture an incoming media being output from a media hardware output device e.g. a sound card a video card etc. .

Within direct sound is shown coupled with custom media device via wave in line instead of being coupled with media device driver . In one embodiment custom audio device mandates explicit selection through system meaning that custom audio device is needs to be selected as a default driver of system . By virtue of having the selection of custom media device as the default driver of system the data path necessary for direct sound to capture the media content can be selectively closed.

For example incoming media originating from nearly any source with reference to is received by media playback application of system . Playback application communicates to CCM via coupling to determine whether incoming media is protected by any copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements. Playback application communicates with CCM to control switch and accordingly. In the present example recording of incoming media would violate applicable restrictions and or agreements and therefore switch is in an open position such that the output path to recording application e.g. wave out line and or wave out line is effectively blocked thereby preventing unauthorized recording of media .

Alternatively if media device driver is selected as the default driver incoming media continues from O S multimedia subsystem through custom audio device wave driver shim and into media device driver where media can be simultaneously output to media output device via line and output on wave out line to wave and outputted by media device driver to wave shim driver on wave out line . However by virtue of CCM controlling switch wave out line which eventually leads to recording application is blocked thus effectively preventing unauthorized recording of media .

It is noted that by virtue of CCM controlling both switches and and therefore controlling wave out line and wave out line any incoming media files e.g. incoming media can be prevented from being recording in an unauthorized manner in accordance with applicable copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements related to the incoming media.

Still referring to it is particularly noted that although CCM can prevent unauthorized recording of incoming media by controlling switches and thus preventing incoming media from reaching recording application controlling switches and do nothing to prevent incoming media from being captured by a peripheral digital device e.g. a mini disc recorder etc. coupled to a digital output of device . Thus by also controlling the output via digital output of media hardware output device through control via switch CCM can prevent unauthorized capturing of incoming media from output e.g. on a sound card for audio files a video card for video and or graphical files regardless of whether incoming media is received in a secure and encrypted manner. However when switch is in a closed position incoming media may be played back in an unfettered manner. Additionally at any time during playback of media switch of custom media device switch of media device driver and or switch of media hardware output device can be dynamically activated by CCM .

Diagram D of is similar to diagram C of with some changes. Particularly diagram D includes a kernel streaming mechanism e.g. DirectKS that is coupled with a media device driver . In one embodiment DirectKS can be used for establishing a direct connection with media device driver . In the present embodiment media device driver is shown to include a switch controlled by CCM via communication line that is similar to switches and for controlling output of incoming media .

In one embodiment CCM is communicatively coupled with playback application via coupling waveform driver shim via coupling custom media device via coupling and media device driver via coupling . Specifically CCM is coupled to and controls a selectable switch of waveform driver shim via coupling . CCM is also coupled to and controls a selectable switch of custom audio device via coupling . CCM is further coupled to and controls a selectable switch in media device driver via coupling . Depending upon the copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements applicable to an incoming media file e.g. e.g. media CCM controls whether switches and are open shown thus preventing the incoming media from reaching a recording application or closed not shown so as to allow recording of the incoming media . Additionally CCM controls whether switch is open shown thus preventing incoming media from being returned from media device driver to DirectKS which can capture incoming media and redirect it to recording application to create an unauthorized copy or recording of incoming media . CCM can also control whether switch is closed not shown to allow DirectKS to capture and redirect incoming media to recording application .

DirectKS in one embodiment may represent a kernel streaming mechanism that is adapted to establish a direct connection with a media device driver of an operating system operable on client computer system enabling kernel level access to media device driver . A kernel streaming mechanism can be implemented for the purpose of precluding utilization of standard audio APIs application programming interfaces to play or record media content with particular attention paid to those playback applications with low latency requirements. DirectKS can bypass existing APIs and communicate with media device driver . DirectKS can be readily adapted to work in conjunction with a playback application e.g. via coupling to capture and redirect incoming media and redirect it to driver via coupling and then to recording application via wave out line . Accordingly DirectKS can be implemented to create unauthorized media recordings.

By controlling media device driver copyright compliance mechanism can prevent unauthorized output of incoming media to e.g. a digital recording device that may be coupled with recording application . In one embodiment media device driver is configured through the kernel mixer not shown to control the data path. Additionally in one embodiment CCM is enabled to also detect a kernel streaming mechanism e.g. DirectKS that may be operable on client computer system as described herein with reference to .

In one embodiment custom media device mandates explicit selection through system meaning that custom media device is selected as a default driver of system . By virtue of having the selection of custom media device as the default driver of system the data path necessary for direct sound to capture the media content is selectively closed.

For example incoming media originating from nearly any source described herein with reference to is received by media playback application of system . Playback application communicates to CCM via connection to determine whether incoming media is protected by any copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements. Playback application communicates with CCM to control switches and accordingly. In the present example recording of incoming media would violate applicable restrictions and or agreements and therefore switch is in an open position such that the output path to recording application e.g. wave out line and or wave out line and or wave out line is effectively blocked thereby preventing unauthorized recording of media .

Still referring to it is particularly noted that although CCM can prevent unauthorized recording of incoming media by controlling switches and thus preventing incoming media from reaching recording application controlling switches and do nothing to prevent incoming media from being returned to recording application by a kernel streaming mechanism e.g. DirectKS which enables capturing and redirecting of incoming media to recording application via wave out line . Thus by also controlling switch of media device driver CCM can prevent kernel streaming mechanism from returning incoming media to recording application thereby preventing incoming media from being captured and redirected to recording application in an attempt to create and unauthorized copy and or recording of incoming media . However when switch is in a closed position incoming media may be returned to a recording application such that recording could be possible provided recording does not violate copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements applicable to incoming media . Additionally at any time during playback of media switch of custom media device switch of wave shim driver and or switch of media device driver can be dynamically activated by CCM .

Playback application is coupled with CCM via communication line in a manner analogous to B C and or D. Although not shown in it is noted that CCM is also coupled to switches and as shown in switches and in switches and in and switches and in .

In one embodiment an indicator is attached to incoming media for preventing unauthorized copying or recording in accordance with the SCMS. In one embodiment indicator can be a bit that may be transmitted prior to beginning the delivery of incoming media to playback application . In another embodiment indicator may be placed at the beginning of the bit stream of incoming media . In yet another embodiment indicator may be placed within a frame period of incoming media e.g. every fifth frame or any other desired frame period. In another embodiment indicator may be transmitted at a particular time interval or intervals during delivery of the media file e.g. incoming media . Thus indicator may be placed nearly anywhere within or attached to the bit stream related to incoming media .

Within indicator may be comprised of various indicators e.g. a level 0 indicator a level 1 indicator and a level 2 indicator in one embodiment of the present invention. In the present embodiment a level 0 indicator may be for indicating to CCM that copying is permitted without restriction e.g. incoming media is not copyrighted or that the copyright is not asserted . In the present embodiment a level 1 indicator may be for indicating to CCM that one generation of copies of incoming media may be made such that incoming media is an original copy and that one copy may be made. In the present embodiment a level 2 indicator may be for indicating to CCM that incoming media is copyright protected and or a copy thereof and as such no digital copying is permitted.

For example incoming media is received by playback application . Application detects an indicator attached therewith in this example a level 2 bit is placed in the bit stream for indicating to CCM that copying is not permitted. As such when CCM is configured in system such as that shown in in response to a level 2 indicator bit CCM while controlling the audio path then activates switches and to prevent any recording of incoming media .

However CCM is configured in system such as that shown in in response to a level 2 indicator bit CCM while controlling the media path then activates switches and to prevent any recording of incoming media .

Alternatively when CCM is configured in system such as that shown in in response to a level 2 indicator bit CCM while controlling the media path then activates switches and to prevent any recording of incoming media .

It is noted that CCM can activate or deactivate switches coupled therewith as described herein with reference to thereby funneling incoming media through the secure media path in this instance the audio path to prevent unauthorized copying of incoming media . It is further noted that CCM can detect media recording applications and devices as described herein with reference to .

The present embodiment provides a method for restricting recording of high fidelity media content delivered via one or more communication networks. The present embodiment delivers the high fidelity media content to registered clients while preventing unauthorized clients from directly receiving media content from a source database. Once the client computer system receives the media content it can be stored in hidden directories and or custom file systems that may be hidden to prevent subsequent unauthorized sharing with others. It is noted that various functionalities can be implemented to protect and monitor the delivered media content. For example the physical address of the media content can be hidden from media content recipients. Alternatively the directory address of the media content can be periodically changed. Additionally an access key procedure and rate control restrictor can also be implemented to monitor and restrict suspicious media content requests. Furthermore a copyright compliance mechanism e.g. CCM can be installed in the client computer system to provide client side compliance with licensing agreements and or copyright restrictions applicable to the media content. By implementing these and other functionalities the present embodiment restricts access to and the distribution of delivered media content and provides a means for copyrighted media owner compensation.

It is noted that flowchart is described in conjunction with and A D in order to more fully describe the operation of the present embodiment. In operation of a user of a computer system e.g. causes the computer to communicatively couple to a web server e.g. via one or more communication networks e.g. Internet and proceeds to attempt to log in. It is understood that the log in process of operation can be accomplished in a variety of ways in accordance with the present invention.

In operation of web server accesses a user database e.g. to determine whether the user and the computer system logging in are registered with it. If the user and computer system are registered with web server the present embodiment proceeds to operation . However if the user and computer system are not registered with web server web server can initiate a user and computer system registration process at operation .

In operation registration of the user and computer system is initiated. The user and computer system registration process can involve the user of computer system providing personal information including but not limited to their name address phone number credit card number online payment account number biometric identification e.g. fingerprint retinal scan etc. and the like. Web server can verify the accuracy of the information provided. Web server can also acquire information regarding the user s computer system including but not limited to identification of media players disposed and operable on system a unique identifier corresponding to the computer system etc. In one embodiment the unique identifier corresponding to the computer system can be a MAC address. Additionally web server can further request that the user of computer system to select a username and password.

In operation of subsequent to the completion of the registration process web server generates a unique user identification ID or user key associated with the user of client computer system . The unique user ID or user key is then stored by web server in a manner that is associated with that registered user. Furthermore one or more cookies containing that information specific to that user and the user s computer system is installed in a non volatile memory device e.g. and or data storage device of computer system . It is noted that the user ID and cookie can be stored in a hidden directory within one or more non volatile memory devices within computer system thereby preventing user access and or manipulation of that information. It is further noted that if the unique user ID or user key has been previously generated for the user and computer that initially logged in at operation the present embodiment proceeds to operation

In operation web server verifies that the user ID and the cookie s are properly installed in computer system and verifies the integrity of the cookie s and the user ID thereby ensuring no unauthorized alterations to the user ID or the cookie s has occurred. If the user ID is not installed and or not valid web server can re initiate the registration process at operation . Alternatively web server can decouple computer system from the network thereby requiring a re log in by the user of computer . If the cookie s and user ID are valid the present embodiment proceeds to operation .

In operation of web server can install a version of a copyright compliance mechanism e.g. onto one or more non volatile memory devices of computer system . Installing CCM into user s computer system can facilitate client side compliance with licensing agreements and copyright restrictions applicable to specific delivered copyrighted media content. At operation the components of CCM such as instructions coder decoder codec agent programs system hooks skins and custom media device drivers e.g. custom media device of are installed in computer system such as that shown in . In one embodiment a hypertext transfer protocol file delivery system can be utilized to install CCM into computer system . However operation is well suited to install CCM on computer system in a wide variety of ways in accordance with the present embodiment. For example CCM can be installed as an integrated component within a media player application media recorder application and or media player recorder applications. Alternatively CCM can be installed as a stand alone mechanism within a client computer system . Additionally CCM can be installed as a stand alone mechanism and or as part of a bundled application from a media storage device e.g. a CD a DVD an SD and or as part of an installation package. In another embodiment CCM can be installed in conjunction with a presentation of desired media content e.g. listening to an audio file on a music CD reading a document viewing a video etc. . It is noted that in one embodiment CCM may be installed on client system in a clandestine manner relative to a user.

In operation web server can request the previously established username and password of the user of client computer system . Accordingly the user of client computer system causes it to transmit to web server the previously established username and password. Upon the receipt thereof web server may access a user database e.g. to determine their validity. If the username and password are invalid web server refuses access wherein flowchart may be discontinued not shown . Alternatively if the username and password are valid the present embodiment proceeds to operation .

In operation of web server can access media file database to determine if copyright compliance mechanism has been updated to reflect changes made to the DMCA Digital Millennium Copyright Act and or to the interactive non interactive licensing agreements recognized by the DMCA. It is noted that alternative licensing agreements can be incorporated into copyright compliance mechanism . Advantageously by providing a copyright compliance mechanism that can be readily updated to reflect changes in existing copyright restrictions and or the introduction of other types of licensing agreements and or changes to existing media player applications and or the development of new media player applications copyright compliance mechanism can provide compliance with current copyright restrictions associated with the media content.

Continuing with operation if web server determines that CCM or components thereof of computer has not been updated web server initiates installation of the newer components and or the most current version of CCM into computer system shown as step . If web server determines that the current version of CCM installed on system does not have to be updated the present embodiment proceeds to operation of .

In operation of the user of client computer system causes it to transmit to web server e.g. via Internet a request for a play list of available media files. It is noted that the play list can contain all or part of the media content available from a content server e.g. .

In operation in response to web server receiving the play list request web server transmits to client computer system a media content play list together with the unique user ID associated with the logged in user. The user ID or user key can be attached to the media content play list in a manner invisible to the user. It is noted that the media content in content server can be but is not limited to high fidelity music audio video graphics multimedia alphanumeric data software applications and the like. The media content play list of operation can be implemented in diverse ways. In one example web server can generate a media content play list by combining all the available media content into a single play list. Alternatively all of the media content titles or different lists of titles can be loaded from content server and passed to a CGI common gateway interface program operating on web server where the media titles or differing lists of titles can be concatenated into a single dimensioned array that can be provided to client computer system . It is understood that the CGI can be written in nearly any software computing language.

In operation of the user of client computer system can utilize the received media content play list in conjunction with a media player application in order to cause client computer system to transmit a request to web server for delivery of desired media content and wherein the user ID is automatically included therewith. The media content play list provided to client computer system by web server can enable the user to create one or more customized play lists by the user selecting desired media content titles. It is noted that a customized media play list can establish the media content that will eventually be delivered to client computer system and the order in which the content will be delivered. Additionally the user of client computer system can create one or more customized play lists and store those play lists in system and or within web server . It is noted that a customized play list does not actually contain the desired media content titles but rather the play list includes one or more identifiers associated with the desired media content that can include but is not limited to a song an audio clip a video clip a picture a multimedia clip an alphanumeric document or particular portions thereof In another embodiment the received media content play list can include a random media content delivery choice that the user of client computer system can transmit to web server with the user ID to request delivery of the media content in a random manner.

In operation upon receiving the request for media content from client computer system web server determines whether the requesting media application operating on client computer system is a valid media application. One of the functions of a valid media application is to be a player of media content as opposed to an application that downloads media content in an unauthorized or unregulated manner. If web server determines that the media application operating on system is not a valid media application the present embodiment proceeds to operation which in one embodiment redirects client computer system to a web site where the user of system can download a valid media player application or to a software application which can identify client computer system log system out of web server and or prevent future logging in for a defined period of time e.g. 15 minutes an hour a day a week a month a year or any specified amount of time . If web server determines that the media application operating on system is a valid media application the present embodiment proceeds to operation .

In operation of the present embodiment causes web server to determine whether the user ID or user key that accompanied the media delivery request sent by client computer system is valid. If web server determines that the user ID is invalid the present embodiment proceeds to operation where client computer system can be logged off web server or client computer system can be returned to step of to re register and to have another unique user ID generated by web server . It is noted that the order in which operations and are performed can be altered such that operation can be performed prior to operation . If web server determines that the user ID is valid the present embodiment proceeds to operation .

In operation prior to web server authorizing the delivery of the redirect and access key for the requested media file content shown as operation CCM governs certain media player applications and or functions thereof that are operable on client computer system . These governed functions can include but are not limited to pause stop progress bar save etc. It is noted that in one embodiment CCM can utilize system hooks to accomplish the functionality of operation .

In operation of the present embodiment causes web server to transmit to client computer system a redirection command along with a time sensitive access key e.g. for that hour day or for any defined period of time thereby enabling client computer system to receive the requested media content. The redirection command can include a time sensitive address of the media content location within content server . The address is time sensitive because in one embodiment the content server periodically renames some or all of the media address directories thereby making previous content source addresses obsolete. Alternatively the address of the media content is changed. In another embodiment the location of the media content can be changed along with the addresses. Regardless unauthorized users and or applications are restricted from directly retrieving and or copying the media content from content server . Therefore if someone with inappropriate or unlawful intentions is able to find where the media content is stored subsequent attempts will fail as the previous route no longer exists thereby preventing future unauthorized access.

It is noted that in one embodiment of the present invention the addresses or routes of content server that are actively coupled to one or more client computer systems e.g. are maintained while future addresses or routes are being created for new client devices. It is further noted that as client computer systems are uncoupled from the media content source of content server that directory address or link can be immediately changed thereby preventing unauthorized client system or application access.

In another embodiment the redirection of client computer system to content server can be implemented by utilizing a server network where multiple servers are content providers e.g. or by routing a requesting client computer system e.g. or through multiple servers. In yet another embodiment the delivery of media content from a central content provider e.g. can be routed through one or more intermediate servers before being received by the requesting client computer system e.g. .

The functionality of operation is additionally well suited to provide recordation of the Internet Protocol IP addresses of the client computer systems e.g. the media content requested and its transfer size thereby enabling accurate monitoring of royalty payments clock usage and transfers and media content popularity.

In operation of upon receiving the redirection command the present embodiment causes the media playback application operating on client computer system to automatically transmit to content server a new media delivery request which can include the time sensitive access key and the address of the desired media content.

In operation of content server determines whether the time sensitive access key associated with the new media delivery request is valid. If content server determines that the time sensitive access key is valid the present embodiment proceeds to operation of . However if content server determines that the time access key is not valid the present embodiment proceeds to operation a client redirect.

In operation content server redirects client computer to operation not shown where a new access key is generated. Alternatively operation causes the present embodiment to return to operation of . In yet another embodiment operation can cause client computer system to be disconnected from content server .

In operation of content server transmits the requested high fidelity media content to client computer system . It is noted that each media content file delivered to client computer system can have a header attached thereto prior to delivery as described herein with reference to . It is further noted that both the media content and the header attached thereto can be encrypted. In one embodiment the media content and the header can be encrypted differently. Alternatively each media content file can be encrypted differently. In another embodiment groups of media files are analogously encrypted. It is noted that public domain encryption mechanisms e.g. Blowfish and or non public domain encryption mechanisms can be utilized.

Still referring to operation content server can transmit the requested media content in a burst load in comparison to a fixed data rate thereby transferring the content to client computer system as fast as the network transfer rate allows. Further content server can have its download rate adapted to be equal to the transfer rate of the network to which it is coupled. In another embodiment the content server download rate can be adapted to equal the network transfer rate of the client computer system to which the media content is being delivered. For example if client computer system is coupled to Internet via a T1 connection then content server transfers the media content at transmission speeds allowed by the Ti connection line. As such once the requested media content is transmitted to client computer system content server is then able to transmit requested media content to another client computer system e.g. or . Advantageously this provides an efficient means to transmit media content in terms of statistical distribution over time and does not overload the communication network s .

It is noted that delivery of the requested media content by content server to client computer system can be implemented in a variety of ways. For example an HTTP hypertext transfer protocol file transfer protocol can be utilized to transfer the requested media content as well as a copyright compliance mechanism to client . In this manner the copyright compliance mechanism as well as each media content file title can be delivered in its entirety. In another embodiment content server can transmit to client computer system a large buffer of media content e.g. audio clips video clips and the like .

In operation of upon receiving the requested high fidelity media content from content server the present embodiment causes client computer system to store the delivered media content in a manner that is ready for presentation e.g. playback . The media content is stored in client computer system in a manner that restricts unauthorized redistribution. For example the present embodiment can cause the high fidelity media content to be stored in a volatile memory device e.g. utilizing one or more hidden directories and or custom file systems that may be hidden where it may be cached for a limited period of time. Alternatively the present embodiment can cause the high fidelity media content to be stored in a non volatile memory device e.g. or data storage device e.g. . It is noted that the manner in which each of the delivered media content file s is stored volatile or non volatile can be dependent upon the licensing restrictions and or copyright agreements applicable to each media content file. It is further noted that in one embodiment when a user of client computer system turns the computer off or causes client computer system to disconnect from the network the media content stored in a volatile memory device is typically deleted therefrom.

Still referring to operation in another embodiment the present embodiment can cause client computer system to store the received media content in a non volatile manner within a media application operating therein or within one of its Internet browser applications e.g. Netscape Communicator Microsoft Internet Explorer Opera Mozilla and the like so that delivered media content can be used in a repetitive manner. Further the received media content can be stored in a manner making it difficult for a user to redistribute in an unauthorized manner while allowing the user utilization of the received media content e.g. by utilizing one or more hidden directories and or custom file systems that may also be hidden . It is noted that by storing media content with client computer system when allowed by applicable licensing agreements and or copyright restrictions content server does not need to redeliver the same media content to client computer system each time its user desires to experience e.g. listen to watch view etc. the media content file.

In operation of the received media content file is then fed into a media player application e.g. playback application of which then runs it through a codec e.g. coder decoder of CCM in one embodiment. In response coder decoder sends an authorization request to the content server e.g. with attached authorization data as described herein. In response to receiving codec s authorization request content server compares the received authorization data with that stored in server and subsequently the present embodiment proceeds to operation .

In operation the content server responds with a pass or fail authorization. If server responds with a fail such that the received authorization data is invalid the present embodiment can proceed to operation where server can in one embodiment notify the user of client system e.g. by utilization of skin that there was an unsuccessful authorization of the requested media content file. It is noted that alternative messages having similar meanings may also be presented to the user of client computer system thereby informing the user that the delivery failed. However if the authorization data passes the present embodiment proceeds to operation .

In operation server transmits certain data back to the media player application enabling the media player application to present the contents of the media file via media playback application of . In one embodiment a decryption key can be included in the transmitted data to decrypt the delivered media content file. In another embodiment an encryption decryption key can be included in the transmitted data to allow access to the contents of the media file. The present method then proceeds to operation .

In operation of subsequent to media file decryption the media file may be passed through CCM e.g. a codec to a media player application operating on client computer system e.g. playback application of which can then access and utilize the delivered high fidelity media content enabling its user s to experience the media content e.g. listen to it watch it view it or the like . In one embodiment of the present invention a specialized or custom media player may be involved in order to experience the media content e.g. skin of . Skin may be implemented when CCM cannot modify an industry standard media player application to comply with copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements in accordance with the DMCA. Alternatively a specialized or custom media player may not be needed to experience the media content. Instead an industry standard media player can be utilized by client computer system to experience the media content. Typically many media player applications are available and can include but are not limited to Windows Media Player for PCs personal computers iTunes Player or QuickTime for Apple computers and XMMS player for computers utilizing a Linux operating system. Regardless of the media player application utilized while the media file is passed to the media player application e.g. in a frame by frame basis or in a buffer by buffer basis coder decoder will repeatedly ensure that CCM rules are being enforced at any particular moment during media playback shown as operation .

In operation as the media file content is delivered to the media player application e.g. media player application of periodically e.g. after a specified number of frames after a defined period of time or any desired time or data period coder decoder repeatedly determines whether or not all the rules are enforced in accordance with rules as defined by CCM . If the rules are not enforced e.g. change due to a user opening up a recording application e.g. Total Recorder or alternative application the present method proceeds to operation . If the rules in accordance with CCM are enforced the present embodiment then proceeds to operation .

In operation of if the rules according to CCM are not enforced the presentation of the media content is in one embodiment suspended or halted. In one embodiment CCM of can selectively control switches and to prevent output of incoming media B C and D to a recording application B and C via wave shim driver and direct sound respectively thus preventing unauthorized recording of incoming media . In another embodiment CCM of can selectively control switches and to prevent output of incoming media to recording application via wave shim driver and custom media device thus preventing unauthorized recording of incoming media . In yet another embodiment CCM of can selectively control switches to not only prevent incoming media from being recorded in an unauthorized manner but can also selectively control switch to prevent unauthorized output of incoming media via digital output of media hardware output device . In yet another embodiment CCM of can selectively control switches and to a prevent kernel streaming mechanism e.g. DirectKS which can establish a connection with media device driver of from capturing incoming media content and returning it to a recording application e.g. to create an unauthorized recording of the media content. In one embodiment incoming media may not be output from digital output . In another embodiment incoming media may be output via digital output but in an inaudible manner e.g. silence . In yet another embodiment incoming media can be audible but recording functionality can be disabled such that the media content cannot be recorded.

In operation if the rules are enforced in accordance with CCM codec retrieves a subsequent portion of the media content that is stored locally in client computer system . The newly retrieved portion of the media file is then presented by the client s media player application shown in the present method as step . While the newly retrieved portion is presented embodiments of the present method then again perform step then step or then step then etc. in a continual loop until the media file contents are presented in their entirety. Advantageously by constantly monitoring playing media files CCM can detect undesired activities and enforce those rules defined by CCM .

For example a media delivery point MDP located in Tokyo Japan is able to provide and deliver media content from the media content library stored in its content database e.g. to client computer systems within the Asiatic regions of the world while a media delivery point located in New York City N.Y. USA is able to provide and deliver media content from its stored media content library to client devices within the Eastern United States and Canada. It is noted that each city name e.g. London Tokyo Hamburg San Jose Amsterdam or New York City associated with one of the media delivery points represents the location of that particular media delivery point or point of presence. However it is further noted that these city names are exemplary because media delivery points can be located anywhere within the world and as such are not limited to the cities shown in global network .

Still referring to it is further noted that global system is described in conjunction with A D and in order to more fully describe the operation of embodiment. Particularly subsequent to a client computer system e.g. client computer system of interacting with a web server e.g. web server of as described herein web server e.g. of in one embodiment can redirect client computer system to receive the desired media content from an MDP e.g. based on one or more differing criteria.

For example computer system may be located in Brattleboro Vermont and its user causes it to log in with a web server which can be located anywhere in the world. It is noted that operations of can then be performed as described herein such that the present embodiment proceeds to operation of . At operation the present embodiment can determine which media delivery points e.g. or can subsequently provide and deliver the desired media content to client computer system .

Still referring to one or more differing criteria can be utilized to determine which media delivery point to select for delivery of the desired media content. For example the present embodiment can base its determination upon which media delivery point is in nearest proximity to client computer system e.g. media delivery point . This can be performed by utilizing the stored registration information e.g. address provided by the user of client computer system . Alternatively the present embodiment can base its determination upon which media delivery point provides media content to the part of the world in which client computer system is located. However if each of the media delivery points e.g. stores differing media content the present embodiment can determine which one can actually provide the desired media content. It is noted that these are exemplary determination criteria and the embodiments of the present invention are not limited to such implementation.

Subsequent to determination of which media delivery point is to provide the media content to client computer system at operation web server transmits to client computer system a redirection command to a media delivery point content server e.g. along with a time sensitive access key also referred to as a session key e.g. for that hour day or any defined time frame thereby enabling client computer system to eventually receive the requested media content. Within system the redirection command can include a time sensitive address of the media content location within media delivery point . Accordingly the New York City media delivery point can subsequently provide and deliver the desired media content to client computer system . It is noted that operations can be performed by media delivery point in a manner similar to content server described herein.

Advantageously by utilizing multiple content servers e.g. media delivery point to provide high fidelity media content to client computer systems e.g. located throughout the world communication network systems of the Internet do not become overly congested. Additionally global network can deliver media content to a larger number of client computer systems e.g. in a more efficient manner. Furthermore by utilizing communication technology having data transfer rates of up to Kbps kilobits per second or higher embodiments of the present invention provide for rapid delivery of the media content in a worldwide implementation.

Referring still to it is noted that media delivery points content servers of global network can be coupled in a wide variety of ways in accordance with the present embodiment. For example media delivery point can be coupled utilizing wired and or wireless communication technologies. Further it is noted that media delivery points can be functionally coupled such that if one of them fails another media delivery point can take over and fulfill its functionality. Additionally one or more web servers similar to web server can be coupled to global network utilizing wired and or wireless communication technologies.

Within system content server media delivery point includes a web infrastructure that in one embodiment is a fully redundant system architecture. It is noted that each of the MDP content server of global network can be implemented to include a web infrastructure in a manner similar to the implementation shown in MDP .

Specifically the web infrastructure of media delivery point includes firewalls and which are each coupled to global network . Firewalls and can be coupled to global network in diverse ways e.g. utilizing wired and or wireless communication technologies . Particularly firewalls and can each be coupled to global network via a 10 100 Ethernet handoff. However system is not limited in any fashion to this specific implementation. It is noted that firewalls and are implemented to prevent malicious users from accessing any part of the web infrastructure of media delivery point in an unauthorized manner. Additionally firewall can include a device e.g. a router or other switching mechanism coupled therewith and a DB database server coupled to device while firewall includes a device e.g. a router or other switching mechanism coupled therewith and a DB database server coupled to device . Furthermore DB server is coupled with device and DB server is coupled with device .

Still referring to and within media delivery point firewall is coupled to a director device which is coupled to internal web application server and and a hub server . Firewall is coupled to a director which is coupled to internal web application servers and and hub server . Hub server can be implemented in a variety of ways including but not limited to as a Linux hub server. Hub server is coupled to a data storage device capable of storing media content. Data storage device can be implemented in a variety of ways e.g. as a RAID redundant array of inexpensive independent disks appliance.

It is noted that media delivery points can be implemented in any manner similar to content server described herein. Additionally media delivery points of the present embodiment can each be implemented as one or more physical computing devices e.g. computer system of .

In another embodiment CCM can be adapted to be disposed on a media storage device e.g. media storage device of . Media storage device can be but is not limited to a CD a DVD or other optical or magnetic storage device. By virtue of disposing a version of CCM on a media storage device embodiments of the present invention can provide copy protection for audio video multimedia graphics information data software programs and other forms of media that may contain copyrighted material and which may be disposed on a media storage device. Alternatively CCM can be adapted to be installed on a computer system e.g. via a media storage device upon which it may be disposed.

In one embodiment CCM MSD is adapted to provide stand alone compliance with copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements applicable to media files that may be disposed on a media storage device e.g. media storage device . In another embodiment CCM MSD is adapted to be installed on a computer system e.g. to provide compliance with copyright restrictions and licensing agreements applicable to media files as described in A D A and A C.

Referring to CCM MSD includes an autorun protocol component for invoking automatic installation of CCM . To deter users from attempts at defeating various features inherent to CCM e.g. the autorun feature CCM s monitoring program agent program verifies that those features that are to be operational are operational and if not CCM prohibits the user from experiencing the contents of the media storage device.

If a user somehow defeats the autorun feature and the user attempts to utilize an application to capture an image of the content the application will make an image of the content on the media storage device which also images the copyright protection contained thereon. As such when the image is played CCM recognizes the copy protection is present and CCM will only allow the user to experience the content when authorized once CCM is installed.

By virtue of the protections as described above provided by CCM users will be able to experience the content of the media storage device in the content s original high quality format thereby obviating the need to compress the media file used on client system .

Advantageously the user will no longer need to suffer through poor quality output as a result of severely compressed media files.

It is noted that when adapted to be implemented in conjunction with a secure file format meaning that the format of the file is without proper authorization non morphogenic embodiments of the present invention also provide effective compliance with copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements with secure files formats. CCM can control the types of file formats into which the media file can be transformed e.g. .wav .mp3 etc. .

In one embodiment the autorun feature associated with a media storage device drive e.g. of of client system is activated and operational. Alternatively a notice of required autorun activation within client system may be displayed on the media storage device and or the case in which the media storage device is stored.

In another embodiment if CCM is present or if the user is coupled to a server then messages containing instructions on how to activate the autorun feature of client system may be presented to the user.

In one embodiment autorun protocol component can detect media storage device drives resident on a computer system e.g. .

The following C source code is an exemplary implementation of a portion of autorun protocol component for detecting media storage device drives residing and operable on client computer system according to one embodiment of the present invention.

In another embodiment autorun protocol component can detect whether a media storage device containing media files has been inserted into a media storage device drive coupled with client computer system e.g. drive of . In another embodiment CCM can include instructions for monitoring media storage device drive and upon detection of drive activation CCM determines what type of media storage device has been inserted therein. Subsequently CCM can detect various triggers on the media storage device to invoke its protection e.g. a hidden file on newer media storage devices and or the copyright indicator bit on legacy media storage devices obviating the need for autorun. Upon detection CCM can invoke the appropriate protection for the associated media file.

The following C source code is an exemplary implementation of a portion of autorun protocol component for detecting a media storage device inserted in a media storage device drive residing and operable on client computer system according to one embodiment of the present invention.

Additionally autorun protocol component can also detect changes in media e.g. insertion of a different media storage device . Further other media changes can be detected subsequent to adaptation of the source code including but not limited to detecting a previously accessed media file and or detecting a previously inserted media storage device.

The following C source code is an exemplary implementation of a portion of autorun protocol component for detecting a change in media according to one embodiment of the present invention.

Still referring to CCM MSD also includes a kernel level filter driver for controlling a data input path of an operating system coupled with and operable on client computer system .

CCM MSD also includes a generalized filter driver for controlling ripping and burning applications e.g. Nero Roxio Exact Audio Copy and others thereby preventing such activities.

The following C source code is an exemplary implementation of a portion of generalized filter driver for controlling ripping and burning applications that may be residing on and operable within client computer system in accordance with one embodiment of the present invention.

Still referring to CCM MSD includes a CCM analogous to CCM of that is adapted to be installed in client computer system in one or more ways described herein.

In one embodiment kernel level filter driver generalized filter driver and CCM of CCM MSD are automatically installed on client computer system subsequent to insertion of media storage device into a media storage device drive e.g. media storage device drive of . Autorun protocol component as described above detects insertion of media storage device into an appropriate drive and initiates installation of the components e.g. CCM driver and driver . In one embodiment drivers and may be temporarily installed and may be deleted upon removal of media storage device from media storage device drive . In yet another embodiment drivers and may be installed in hidden directories and or files within client computer system . In another embodiment some components of CCM can remain installed on client system e.g. the monitoring program agent program . In still another embodiment other components e.g. the kernel level filter driver can be dynamically loaded and unloaded as necessary in accordance with copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements applicable to the media file.

Embodiments of the present invention utilize software e.g. CCM MSD that is placed on media storage device in conjunction with controlling software CCM installed on client computer system and web server and or content server wherein each component is communicatively coupled with the other via the Internet thereby enabling dynamic updating of CCM in the manner as described with reference to and operations and of .

In the present embodiment CCM MSD provides a stand alone DRM that is far more sophisticated than existing DRM solutions. This is because CCM MSD goes into the data pathway of the operating system operable on client computer system and obtains control of the data pathway e.g. filter driver of rather than exploiting inefficiencies or errors in the computer system.

Advantageously the monitoring mechanism of agent program enables constant morphing of the version of CCM disposed on media storage device by communicating with server and or and utilizing the dynamic update capabilities of global network to readily update that which has been installed on client computer system via media storage device .

In one embodiment the installation is performed clandestine with respect to the user and is initiated by inserting media storage device into an appropriate media storage device drive e.g. a magnetic optical disk drive or alternative device drive coupled with client system . If the user is not registered with CCM as described herein with reference to and once installed CCM initiates an update process with web server and or content server to readily include updates that have been invoked subsequent to release of the media file on media storage device . By virtue of the dynamic update capabilities of CCM regardless of the version of CCM on media storage device CCM provides compliance with copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements applicable to the media file on media storage device . Advantageously enabling dynamic adaptability of CCM provides for continued interoperability with new and updated operating systems advancements in electronic technology communication technologies and protocols and the like ensuring the effectiveness of CCM into the future.

In another embodiment if the user is a registered user with global delivery system CCM can detect which version is most current. Accordingly when the version existing on client system is more current that the version for install on media storage device CCM can bypass the install process and present the contents contained on media storage device to the user for them to experience.

Further advantageous this technology is backward compatible with media storage device drives manufactured subsequent to and including the year 1982. Additionally CCM is compatible with media storage devices having a copyright indicator bit disposed thereon. The copyright indicator bit has been included on all CDs released since the year 1982.

In the present embodiment of the media content is not encrypted on media storage device . In one embodiment if the media content is encrypted on computer it can be decrypted on the computer . However home players and or stand alone media playing devices rarely include a decryption mechanism and to experience the music on a home machine the music is conventionally not encrypted.

In one embodiment an additional component of CCM is that the trigger for agent program may be the copyright bit indicator. This means when the copyright indicator bit is detected by CCM the functions of CCM are initiated. Alternatively in another embodiment when the copyright bit indicator is not detected CCM may remain in an un invoked or idle state. If CCM can detect the copyright bit indicator CCM can provide the appropriate compliance with regard to copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements applicable to the media files.

In an alternative embodiment a trigger control in the table of contents of a media storage device includes instructions for triggering autorun protocol of CCM MSD and can utilize the copyright indicator bit or alternative implementation to trigger the technology. In this manner CCM can control copyrighted works while public domain material can be experienced and reproduced at a user s discretion. Because autorun can be problematic for media storage device manufacturers embodiments of CCM MSD can include alternative autorun programs that perform analogous to autorun.

In another embodiment CCM can invoke its own proprietary player e.g. custom media device as described with reference to thus enabling increased control of copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements applicable to the media. By invoking custom media device CCM enables user experience of the media while providing protection against unauthorized reproduction of the media disposed on media storage device .

In an alternative embodiment the media files and the CCM MSD disposed on a media storage device are encrypted. This implementation is particularly advantageous for demonstration demo versions of media files beta test versions and the like that may be disposed on media storage device . It is noted that the present embodiment is operable in an online environment meaning that client computer system is communicatively coupled with web server and or content server to enable a user experience of the content on a demo version of media storage device . In this implementation CCM allows for specific plays for specific users which can be controlled via a network e.g. network of and server and or .

In another embodiment CCM can be implemented for demo and or pre release protection. In this embodiment CCM utilizes sophisticated encryption technology to encrypt the table of contents and CCM with an associated decrypted key located on client computer system . Encrypting CCM can also deter nefarious attempts to reverse engineer CCM . Decryption can be performed using an associated decryption key. Alternatively decryption can be performed by a proprietary or custom media player application resident on demo media storage device e.g. .

The content of media storage device is encrypted using various levels of encryption to provide protection levels commensurate with copyright holders desires and required protection. For example media storage device is delivered to a user or critic for the purposes of review the user inserts media storage device into the appropriate storage device reader or connector coupled with the journalist s computer e.g. and CCM is installed on client system in a manner clandestine to the user. Once installed CCM initiates a communication session with web server content server where content server can provide authorization for the user to experience the media on media storage device .

Accordingly if the user to whom demo media storage device had been released had demo media storage device stolen or if the user allowed alternative parties to experience the content of media storage device the unauthorized party would have to try to crack the encryption keys and the encryption of the actual content of media storage device consuming non trivial amounts of time.

Thus CCM is able to control which users receive authorization to experience the media of media storage device how many times the user may experience the media and CCM may also define a period of time until the media may no longer be accessible. This may enable copyright holders to release the content on an authorized media storage device e.g. prior to pirated copies flooding the market.

Accordingly a demo media storage device may be configured such that a first user may get a copy a second user may get a copy and if it is known that the second user will share the demo with a third and a fourth user then the known users would be enabled to experience the media. Advantageously by virtue of defining which users can access and experience the media any unauthorized sharing of the media by one of the authorized users can be readily detected and further sharing or experiencing of the media may be halted. Additionally because the authorized user shared the media in an unauthorized manner in a worse case scenario criminal charges could be filed against that user.

It is noted that placing CCM MSD on a media storage device e.g. so as to enable installation of CCM on client system is one manner in which CCM can be installed on client system . An alternative manner in which CCM can be installed on client computer system is through cross pollination. For example webcasters broadcast the media file to the user. The media file has a CCM coupled with the media file and upon downloading the media file onto client computer system embodiments of the present invention enable the installation of CCM onto client computer system . In another manner CCM is incorporated into and becomes part of an operating system operational on client system . Alternatively laws are passed that mandate the inclusion of CCM on each client computer system .

Diagram of includes a media storage device media extraction creation application communicatively coupled to operating system input output subsystem via wave in line and wave out line . Operating system input output subsystem is coupled with media storage device class driver via wave in line and wave out line . Media storage device class driver is coupled with filter driver via wave in line and wave out line . Filter driver is coupled with media storage device port driver via wave in line and wave out line . Filter driver is shown to include a switch controlled by CCM via coupling . Media storage device port driver is coupled with media storage device drive via wave line in and wave line out . Media storage device shown to include CCM MSD is receivable by media storage device drive . Additionally CCM is coupled with operating system input output subsystem via wave in line and wave out line .

In one embodiment CCM is coupled to and controls selectable switch in filter driver . Depending upon the copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements applicable to a media file disposed on media storage device CCM controls whether switch is open shown thus preventing the media file from reaching media extraction creation application or closed not shown so as to allow reproduction of the protected media file. Media extraction creation application can be a ripping or burning application such as Nero Roxio Exact Audio Copy or other readily available application.

Continuing with media storage device is received by media storage device drive . CCM determines whether media storage device or media disposed thereon is protected by any copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements e.g. via detection of a copyright indicator bit. CCM communicates with filter driver to control switch accordingly. In the present example reproducing media storage device and or the contents thereon would violate applicable restrictions and or agreements and therefore switch is in an open position such that the output path e.g. wave out line to media extraction creation application is effectively blocked thereby preventing unauthorized reproduction of media storage device .

It is particularly noted that by virtue of CCM controlling switch and therefore controlling wave out line any incoming copyright protected media disposed on a media storage device can be prevented from being reproduced in an unauthorized manner in accordance with applicable copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements related to the incoming media.

Advantageously as new secure or proprietary file formats are developed CCM can be readily adapted to be functional therewith. Further CCM MSD can prevent users from making unauthorized reproductions of media files e.g. recording copying ripping burning etc. . By using kernel level filter drivers e.g. filter driver and getting to a low enough level within the operating system OS on client system CCM can detect particular applications and when they request media storage device drive to poll the media file for copying ripping etc. and disable the data input path. CCM in this embodiment deals with the input pathway.

In one embodiment alternative applications that monitor the state of client computer system can enable the autorun functionality of client computer system or alternatively invoke an automatic mechanism similar to autorun to ensure invocation of CCM for compliance of copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements applicable to media storage device and or the copyright protected media disposed thereon.

In one embodiment CCM can invoke a proprietary media player from media storage device or activate a proprietary media player resident and operable on client computer system or an alternative authorized media player resident on client computer system in a manner similar to that described herein with reference to .

When media storage device is a multisession device e.g. a compact disk having a data session and a music session audio tracks and it is inserted into or communicatively coupled with media storage device drive such that its content is accessible CCM views the contents of the media storage device and in some operating systems the audio tracks will not be displayed. Instead the data session is shown as is an autorun file e.g. autorun protocol component and upon clicking invokes a player application. CCM can have a data session and files to which a user may not have access unless a player application is invoked.

In one embodiment the player application could deposit a monitoring portion e.g. agent program on client system which in one embodiment may reside on client computer system subsequent to removal or decoupling of media storage device from media storage device drive .

By virtue of content in a multisession media storage device which may not be directly accessible to most player applications at some point the player application can be invoked which can then install the CCM into client system according to one embodiment of the present invention.

In one embodiment a proprietary media player application is stored on media storage device . However it may not be automatically invoked. Upon some user intervention e.g. inserting media storage device into media storage device drive the media player application is loaded onto client system which has CCM integrated therewith. Thus CCM is launched regardless of autorun being activated or de activated and mandates the user to utilize the proprietary media player application to experience the content of the media e.g. media files on the media storage device .

In an alternative embodiment client computer system has autorun turned off wherein it is common for the user to be unable to play a media file unless a proprietary media player application is invoked. Activating the proprietary media player application can initiate an installation of those components of CCM that are bypassed when autorun is not active.

Advantageously by providing a copyright compliance mechanism e.g. which can be easily and readily installed on a client computer system e.g. one or more embodiments of the present invention can be implemented to control access to the delivery of and the user s experience with media content subject to copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements for example as defined by the DMCA. Additionally by closely associating a client computer system e.g. with the user thereof and the media content they received embodiments of the present invention further can provide for accurate royalty recording.

Diagram of includes a media hardware output device communicatively coupled to operating system multimedia subsystem via wave in line and wave out line . Operating system multimedia subsystem is coupled with media playback data extraction application via wave in line and wave out line . Additionally CCM is coupled with operating system multimedia subsystem via wave in line and wave out line . Media playback data extraction application can be a ripping or burning application such as Nero Roxio Exact Audio Copy or other readily available application that allows transformation of the data on media storage device . Media playback data extraction application is coupled with filter driver via wave in line and wave out line . Filter driver is coupled with media storage device class driver via wave in line and wave out line . Filter driver is shown to include a switch controlled by CCM via coupling .

Media storage device class driver is coupled with media storage device drive via wave line in and wave line out . Media storage device shown to include CCM MSD is receivable by media storage device drive . Media player application is communicatively coupled with media storage device drive via connection and is communicatively coupled with CCM via connection . In the embodiment of media storage device drive is communicatively coupled with media hardware output device via a coupling e.g. signal path of . Using signal path media storage device drive can output an analog signal directly to media hardware output device . As described herein with reference to this allows accessing media disposed on media storage device while bypassing data bus of client computer system .

In one embodiment CCM is coupled with and controls selectable switch in filter driver . Depending upon the copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements applicable to a media file disposed on media storage device CCM controls whether switch is open shown thus preventing the media file from reaching media playback data extraction application or closed not shown so as to allow reproduction of the protected media file.

Continuing with media storage device is received by media storage device drive . CCM determines whether media storage device or media disposed thereon is protected by any copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements e.g. via detection of a copyright indicator bit. In an embodiment of the present invention an agent program of CCM accesses configuration information contained in a table of contents or other configuration file on media storage device . In an embodiment this allows individually determining whether the copyright indicator bit is set for each file stored on media storage device . Alternatively the copyright indicator bit can convey that the content of the entire CD is protected by copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements. CCM communicates with filter driver to control switch accordingly. In the present embodiment reproducing media storage device or a particular file stored on media storage device would violate applicable restrictions and or agreements and therefore switch is in an open position such that the digital data pathway to media playback data extraction application e.g. wave out line is effectively blocked thereby preventing unauthorized access of the protected media file stored on media storage device . As a result digital access of the media files that have their respective copyright indicator bits set is prevented. In an embodiment a data access command to operating system multimedia subsystem triggers CCM of open switch thus blocking the digital data pathway of system . However commands for controlling media storage device drive e.g. play pause skip etc. from media playback application are allowed to permit accessing audio tracks stored on media storage device . While the present embodiment recites audio information stored upon media storage device embodiments of the present invention are well suited for protecting other copyright protected media as well such as multimedia presentations as well.

It is particularly noted that by virtue of CCM controlling switch and therefore controlling wave out line copyright protected media disposed on a media storage device can be prevented from being digitally accessed in an unauthorized manner in accordance with applicable copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements by client computer system . However the copyright protected media can be accessed via signal path and media hardware output device .

As an example when media storage device is placed into media storage device drive the table of contents is read by a monitoring agent e.g. agent of . While the present embodiment recites reading the table of contents specifically embodiments of the present invention are well suited to using other methods to determine whether media disposed upon media storage device is protected by copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements. For example a hidden file on media storage device may convey this information. Alternatively a separate application disposed on media storage device may convey information regarding copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements in embodiments of the present invention. In one embodiment this information is represented as a song or song title to discourage accessing and or altering this information file. The monitoring agent determines that media storage device has 10 music tracks disposed thereupon and that the copyright indicator bit is set for tracks . When media playback application receives a request to read any of tracks it causes media storage device drive to access the requested music track. However CCM opens switch when the copyright protected tracks are being accessed and thus prevents digitally accessing those tracks by client computer system . The music tracks can still be accessed via signal path and media hardware output device . Thus a user can listen to and enjoy the copyrighted music tracks but is prevented from digitally accessing the music. This hinders attempts to reproduce the music tracks in an unauthorized manner while still permitting the user to enjoy the media in accordance with applicable copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements related to the media. Attempts to create a digital copy of the protected media via media hardware output device can be prevented as described herein with reference to . For example a user may couple signal path with a waveform input of media hardware output device in an attempt to circumvent switch . However CCM may open switches and or concurrent with opening switch to prevent digitally accessing the protected media.

Advantageously as new secure or proprietary file formats are developed CCM can be readily adapted to be functional therewith. Further CCM MSD can prevent users from making unauthorized reproductions of media files e.g. recording copying ripping burning etc. . By using kernel level filter drivers e.g. filter driver CCM can detect unauthorized attempts to digitally access copyright protected media and disable the digital data path.

As described herein with reference to alternative applications that monitor the state of client computer system can enable the autorun functionality of client computer system or alternatively invoke an automatic mechanism similar to autorun to ensure invocation of CCM for compliance of copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements applicable to media storage device and or the copyright protected media disposed thereon.

In one embodiment CCM can invoke a proprietary media player from media storage device or activate a proprietary media player resident and operable on client computer system or an alternative authorized media player resident on client computer system as described herein with reference to .

For example when media storage device is a multisession device e.g. a compact disk having a data session and a music session e.g. audio tracks and it is inserted into media storage device drive CCM looks at the contents of the media storage device and in some operating systems the audio tracks will not be displayed. Instead the data session is shown as is an autorun file e.g. autorun protocol component and upon clicking an icon invokes a player application. CCM can have a data session and files to which a user may not have access unless a player application is invoked.

In one embodiment the player application could deposit a monitoring portion e.g. agent program on client system which in one embodiment may reside on client computer system subsequent to removal of media storage device from media storage device drive .

By virtue of content in a multisession media storage device which may not be directly accessible to most player applications at some point the player application will be invoked which can then install the CCM into client system according to one embodiment of the present invention.

In one embodiment a proprietary media player application is stored on media storage device . However it is not automatically invoked. Upon some user intervention e.g. inserting media storage device into media storage device drive the media player application is loaded onto client system which has CCM integrated therewith. Thus CCM is launched regardless of autorun being activated or not activated and mandates the user to utilize the proprietary media player application to experience the content of the media files on the media storage device. .

In an alternative embodiment client computer system has autorun off wherein it is common for the user to be unable to play a media file unless a proprietary media player application is invoked. Activating the proprietary media player application can initiate an installation of those components of CCM that are bypassed when autorun is not active.

Advantageously by providing a copyright compliance mechanism e.g. which can be easily and readily installed on a client computer system e.g. embodiments of the present invention can be implemented to control access to the delivery of and the user s experience with media content subject to copyright restrictions and or licensing agreements for example as defined by the DMCA. Additionally by closely associating a client computer system e.g. with the user thereof and the media content they receive embodiments of the present invention further provide for accurate royalty recording.

In embodiments of the present invention a media identification module is used to identify the media files disposed on media storage device . Currently many CDs do not contain descriptive information e.g. song titles artist and album names etc. As a result when accessing the tracks on the CD the playback device only identifies a track number e.g. Disk 1 Track 1. However there are services available via the Internet which allow a user to identify and or manage their media files. One such service is the Gracenote CDDB Music Recognition ServiceSM. Using the Gracenote service a user inserts a music CD into their computer and uses a software application to contact the Gracenote database server which then identifies the artist title tracklist and other information about the CD and displays the information on the user s computer.

In one embodiment media identification module sends data to media identification service such as the number of songs on media storage device the length of each of those songs and the order in which they are accessed. Using this information media identification service performs a database search until it finds media release e.g. an album having similar characteristics. Upon finding a match media identification service can identify the album artist playlist and other information applicable to media storage device and send that information to client computer system . A similar public domain service can be accessed at the following web address http www.freedb.org.

In an embodiment of the present information client computer system then contacts media provider to determine whether any of the tracks disposed upon media storage device are copyright protected material. Using the information provided by media information service media provider can identify which of the tracks disposed upon media storage device are copyright protected material and send this information back to client computer system . Using the information provided by media provider CCM can selectively allow access to tracks on media storage device either allowing denying digital access to media storage device as a whole or on a track by track basis. Additionally a user can be permitted to make a given number of copies of the media disposed upon media storage device or may be permitted to access the copyright protected material for a given period of time in accordance with an end user agreement. In another embodiment the database of media identification service may also provide copyright information about the tracks disposed upon media storage device to client computer system .

In another embodiment media identification module sends waveform data and or text data to media identification service to identify the media disposed upon media storage device . For example the Gracenote MusicIDSM service uses waveform analysis to identify music tracks for service subscribers. In an embodiment of the present invention music identification module sends waveform data of tracks being accessed from media storage device to media identification service . In one embodiment this waveform data is captured by a sampling buffer not shown that is in the data path between for example media storage device drive and media storage device class driver of . While the present embodiment describes placing the sampling buffer in this portion of the data path embodiments of the present invention are well suited for placing the sampling buffer in another portion of the data path as well e.g. between media storage device class driver and filter driver of . The Gracenote MusicIDSM service also uses text based recognition in conjunction with the waveform analysis to provide a higher degree of certainty in identifying the music tracks. Upon identifying the media disposed upon media storage device media identification module can contact media provider to determine whether any of the media is copyright protected material. Alternatively the waveform and or text data may be sent directly to media provider to determine whether any of the tracks disposed upon media storage device are copyright protected material.

In one embodiment media identification module samples the data as it passes through the sample buffer and creates an abstraction of the data which is sent to media identification service or media provider . Media identification module then performs a fast Fourier transform of the sampled data and sends the result to either media identification service or media provider to identify the media disposed upon media storage device . While the present embodiment recites performing a fast Fourier transform of the sampled data embodiments of the present invention are well suited for performing other transformations of the sampled data before sending it to media identification service or media provider .

In one embodiment media identification module is disposed upon media storage device . In one embodiment the installation of media identification module onto client computer system is performed clandestine with respect to the user and is initiated by inserting media storage device into an appropriate media storage device drive e.g. a magnetic optical disk drive or alternative device drive coupled with client system .

The foregoing disclosure regarding specific embodiments of the present invention have been presented for purposes of illustration and description. They are not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed and many modifications and variations are possible in light of above teaching. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and its practical application to thereby enable others skilled in the art to best utilize the invention and various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. It is intended that the scope of the invention be defined by the Claims appended hereto and their equivalents.

