---

title: Methods of using 4-phenyl-6-(2,2,2-trifluoro-1-phenylethoxy)pyrimidine-based compounds
abstract: 

url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07968559&OS=07968559&RS=07968559
owner: Lexicon Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
number: 07968559
owner_city: The Woodlands
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100405
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 12 468 974 filed May 20 2009 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 709 493 which is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 954 000 filed Dec. 11 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 553 840 issued on Jun. 30 2009 which claims priority to U.S. provisional application No. 60 874 596 filed Dec. 12 2006 the entireties of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention relates to 4 phenyl 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 phenylethoxy pyrimidine based compounds compositions comprising them and their use in the treatment prevention and management of diseases and disorders.

The neurotransmitter serotonin 5 hydroxytryptamine 5 HT is involved in multiple central nervous facets of mood control and in regulating sleep anxiety alcoholism drug abuse food intake and sexual behavior. In peripheral tissues serotonin is reportedly implicated in the regulation of vascular tone gut motility primary hemostasis and cell mediated immune responses. Walther D. J. et al. 299 76 2003 .

The enzyme tryptophan hydroxylase TPH catalyzes the rate limiting step of the biosynthesis of serotonin. Two isoforms of TPH have been reported TPH1 which is expressed in the periphery primarily in the gastrointestinal GI tract and TPH2 which is expressed in the serotonergic neurons. Id. The isoform TPH1 is encoded by the tph1 gene TPH2 is encoded by the tph2 gene. Id.

Mice genetically deficient for the tph1 gene knockout mice have been reported. In one case the mice reportedly expressed normal amounts of serotonin in classical serotonergic brain regions but largely lacked serotonin in the periphery. Id. In another the knockout mice exhibited abnormal cardiac activity which was attributed to a lack of peripheral serotonin. C t F. et al. 100 23 13525 13530 2003 .

Because serotonin is involved in so many biochemical processes drugs that affect serotonin receptors are often attended by adverse effects. Thus a need exists for new ways of treating diseases and disorders that are affected by mediated by or associated with serotonin.

This invention is also directed to pharmaceutical compositions and to methods of treating preventing and managing a variety of diseases and disorders.

This invention is based in part on the discovery that knocking out the tph1 gene in mice significantly reduces levels of GI serotonin yet causes little if any measurable effect on the central nervous system CNS .

This invention is also based on the discovery of compounds that inhibit TPH e.g. TPH1 . When administered to mammals preferred compounds of the invention reduce serotonin levels have pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties that enable their practical use for the treatment prevention and management of diseases and disorders and have a broad safety margin between pharmacological effect and toxicity or unfavorable side reactions.

Unless otherwise indicated the term alkenyl means a straight chain branched and or cyclic hydrocarbon having from 2 to 20 e.g. 2 to 10 or 2 to 6 carbon atoms and including at least one carbon carbon double bond. Representative alkenyl moieties include vinyl allyl 1 butenyl 2 butenyl isobutylenyl 1 pentenyl 2 pentenyl 3 methyl 1 butenyl 2 methyl 2 butenyl 2 3 dimethyl 2 butenyl 1 hexenyl 2 hexenyl 3 hexenyl 1 heptenyl 2 heptenyl 3 heptenyl 1 octenyl 2 octenyl 3 octenyl 1 nonenyl 2 nonenyl 3 nonenyl 1 decenyl 2 decenyl and 3 decenyl.

Unless otherwise indicated the term alkyl means a straight chain branched and or cyclic cycloalkyl hydrocarbon having from 1 to 20 e.g. 1 to 10 or 1 to 4 carbon atoms. Alkyl moieties having from 1 to 4 carbons are referred to as lower alkyl. Examples of alkyl groups include methyl ethyl propyl isopropyl n butyl t butyl isobutyl pentyl hexyl isohexyl heptyl 4 4 dimethylpentyl octyl 2 2 4 trimethylpentyl nonyl decyl undecyl and dodecyl. Cycloalkyl moieties may be monocyclic or multicyclic and examples include cyclopropyl cyclobutyl cyclopentyl cyclohexyl and adamantyl. Additional examples of alkyl moieties have linear branched and or cyclic portions e.g. 1 ethyl 4 methyl cyclohexyl . The term alkyl includes saturated hydrocarbons as well as alkenyl and alkynyl moieties.

Unless otherwise indicated the term alkoxy means an O alkyl group. Examples of alkoxy groups include OCH OCHCH O CH CH O CH CH O CH CH and O CH CH.

Unless otherwise indicated the term alkylaryl or alkyl aryl means an alkyl moiety bound to an aryl moiety.

Unless otherwise indicated the term alkylheteroaryl or alkyl heteroaryl means an alkyl moiety bound to a heteroaryl moiety.

Unless otherwise indicated the term alkylheterocycle or alkyl heterocycle means an alkyl moiety bound to a heterocycle moiety.

Unless otherwise indicated the term alkynyl means a straight chain branched or cyclic hydrocarbon having from 2 to 20 e.g. 2 to 20 or 2 to 6 carbon atoms and including at least one carbon carbon triple bond. Representative alkynyl moieties include acetylenyl propynyl 1 butynyl 2 butynyl 1 pentynyl 2 pentynyl 3 methyl 1 butynyl 4 pentynyl 1 hexynyl 2 hexynyl 5 hexynyl 1 heptynyl 2 heptynyl 6 heptynyl 1 octynyl 2 octynyl 7 octynyl 1 nonynyl 2 nonynyl 8 nonynyl 1 decynyl 2 decynyl and 9 decynyl.

Unless otherwise indicated the term aryl means an aromatic ring or an aromatic or partially aromatic ring system composed of carbon and hydrogen atoms. An aryl moiety may comprise multiple rings bound or fused together. Examples of aryl moieties include anthracenyl azulenyl biphenyl fluorenyl indan indenyl naphthyl phenanthrenyl phenyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydro naphthalene and tolyl.

Unless otherwise indicated the term arylalkyl or aryl alkyl means an aryl moiety bound to an alkyl moiety.

Unless otherwise indicated the terms biohydrolyzable amide biohydrolyzable ester biohydrolyzable carbamate biohydrolyzable carbonate biohydrolyzable ureido and biohydrolyzable phosphate mean an amide ester carbamate carbonate ureido or phosphate respectively of a compound that either 1 does not interfere with the biological activity of the compound but can confer upon that compound advantageous properties in vivo such as uptake duration of action or onset of action or 2 is biologically inactive but is converted in vivo to the biologically active compound. Examples of biohydrolyzable esters include lower alkyl esters alkoxyacyloxy esters alkyl acylamino alkyl esters and choline esters. Examples of biohydrolyzable amides include lower alkyl amides amino acid amides alkoxyacyl amides and alkylaminoalkyl carbonyl amides. Examples of biohydrolyzable carbamates include lower alkylamines substituted ethylenediamines aminoacids hydroxyalkylamines heterocyclic and heteroaromatic amines and polyether amines.

Unless otherwise indicated the phrases disease or disorder mediated by peripheral serotonin and disease and disorder mediated by peripheral serotonin mean a disease and or disorder having one or more symptoms the severity of which are affected by peripheral serotonin levels.

Unless otherwise indicated the terms halogen and halo encompass fluorine chlorine bromine and iodine.

Unless otherwise indicated the term heteroalkyl refers to an alkyl moiety e.g. linear branched or cyclic in which at least one of its carbon atoms has been replaced with a heteroatom e.g. N O or S .

Unless otherwise indicated the term heteroaryl means an aryl moiety wherein at least one of its carbon atoms has been replaced with a heteroatom e.g. N O or S . Examples include acridinyl benzimidazolyl benzofuranyl benzoisothiazolyl benzoisoxazolyl benzoquinazolinyl benzothiazolyl benzoxazolyl furyl imidazolyl indolyl isothiazolyl isoxazolyl oxadiazolyl oxazolyl phthalazinyl pyrazinyl pyrazolyl pyridazinyl pyridyl pyrimidinyl pyrimidyl pyrrolyl quinazolinyl quinolinyl tetrazolyl thiazolyl and triazinyl.

Unless otherwise indicated the term heteroarylalkyl or heteroaryl alkyl means a heteroaryl moiety bound to an alkyl moiety.

Unless otherwise indicated the term heterocycle refers to an aromatic partially aromatic or non aromatic monocyclic or polycyclic ring or ring system comprised of carbon hydrogen and at least one heteroatom e.g. N O or S . A heterocycle may comprise multiple i.e. two or more rings fused or bound together. Heterocycles include heteroaryls. Examples include benzo 1 3 dioxolyl 2 3 dihydro benzo 1 4 dioxinyl cinnolinyl furanyl hydantoinyl morpholinyl oxetanyl oxiranyl piperazinyl piperidinyl pyrrolidinonyl pyrrolidinyl tetrahydrofuranyl tetrahydropyranyl tetrahydropyridinyl tetrahydropyrimidinyl tetrahydrothiophenyl tetrahydrothiopyranyl and valerolactamyl.

Unless otherwise indicated the term heterocyclealkyl or heterocycle alkyl refers to a heterocycle moiety bound to an alkyl moiety.

Unless otherwise indicated the term heterocycloalkylalkyl or heterocycloalkyl alkyl refers to a heterocycloalkyl moiety bound to an alkyl moiety.

Unless otherwise indicated the terms manage managing and management encompass preventing the recurrence of the specified disease or disorder or of one or more of its symptoms in a patient who has already suffered from the disease or disorder and or lengthening the time that a patient who has suffered from the disease or disorder remains in remission. The terms encompass modulating the threshold development and or duration of the disease or disorder or changing the way that a patient responds to the disease or disorder.

Unless otherwise indicated the term pharmaceutically acceptable salts refers to salts prepared from pharmaceutically acceptable non toxic acids or bases including inorganic acids and bases and organic acids and bases. Suitable pharmaceutically acceptable base addition salts include metallic salts made from aluminum calcium lithium magnesium potassium sodium and zinc or organic salts made from lysine N N dibenzylethylenediamine chloroprocaine choline diethanolamine ethylenediamine meglumine N methylglucamine and procaine. Suitable non toxic acids include inorganic and organic acids such as acetic alginic anthranilic benzenesulfonic benzoic camphorsulfonic citric ethenesulfonic formic fumaric furoic galacturonic gluconic glucuronic glutamic glycolic hydrobromic hydrochloric isethionic lactic maleic malic mandelic methanesulfonic mucic nitric pamoic pantothenic phenylacetic phosphoric propionic salicylic stearic succinic sulfanilic sulfuric tartaric acid and p toluenesulfonic acid. Specific non toxic acids include hydrochloric hydrobromic phosphoric sulfuric and methanesulfonic acids. Examples of specific salts thus include hydrochloride and mesylate salts. Others are well known in the art. See e.g. 18ed. Mack Publishing Easton Pa. 1990 and 19ed. Mack Publishing Easton Pa. 1995 .

Unless otherwise indicated the term potent TPH1 inhibitor is a compound that has a TPH1 ICof less than about 10 M.

Unless otherwise indicated the terms prevent preventing and prevention contemplate an action that occurs before a patient begins to suffer from the specified disease or disorder which inhibits or reduces the severity of the disease or disorder or of one or more of its symptoms. The terms encompass prophylaxis.

Unless otherwise indicated the term prodrug encompasses pharmaceutically acceptable esters carbonates thiocarbonates N acyl derivatives N acyloxyalkyl derivatives quaternary derivatives of tertiary amines N Mannich bases Schiff bases amino acid conjugates phosphate esters metal salts and sulfonate esters of compounds disclosed herein. Examples of prodrugs include compounds that comprise a biohydrolyzable moiety e.g. a biohydrolyzable amide biohydrolyzable carbamate biohydrolyzable carbonate biohydrolyzable ester biohydrolyzable phosphate or biohydrolyzable ureide analog . Prodrugs of compounds disclosed herein are readily envisioned and prepared by those of ordinary skill in the art. See e.g. Bundgaard A. Ed. Elseview 1985 Bundgaard H. Design and Application of Prodrugs Krosgaard Larsen and H. Bundgaard Ed. 1991 Chapter 5 p. 113 191 and Bundgaard H. 1992 8 1 38.

Unless otherwise indicated a prophylactically effective amount of a compound is an amount sufficient to prevent a disease or condition or one or more symptoms associated with the disease or condition or prevent its recurrence. A prophylactically effective amount of a compound is an amount of therapeutic agent alone or in combination with other agents which provides a prophylactic benefit in the prevention of the disease. The term prophylactically effective amount can encompass an amount that improves overall prophylaxis or enhances the prophylactic efficacy of another prophylactic agent.

Unless otherwise indicated the term protecting group or protective group when used to refer to part of a molecule subjected to a chemical reaction means a chemical moiety that is not reactive under the conditions of that chemical reaction and which may be removed to provide a moiety that is reactive under those conditions. Protecting groups are well known in the art. See e.g. Greene T. W. and Wuts P. G. M. 3ed. John Wiley Sons 1999 Larock R. C. 2ed. John Wiley Sons 1999 . Some examples include benzyl diphenylmethyl trityl Cbz Boc Fmoc methoxycarbonyl ethoxycarbonyl and pthalimido.

Unless otherwise indicated the term pseudohalogen refers to a polyatomic anion that resembles a halide ion in its acid base substitution and redox chemistry generally has low basicity and forms a free radical under atom transfer radical polymerization conditions. Examples of pseudohalogens include azide ions cyanide cyanate thiocyanate thiosulfate sulfonates and sulfonyl halides.

Unless otherwise indicated the term selective TPH1 inhibitor is a compound that has a TPH2 ICthat is at least about 10 times greater than its TPH1 IC.

Unless otherwise indicated the term stereomerically enriched composition of a compound refers to a mixture of the named compound and its stereoisomer s that contains more of the named compound than its stereoisomer s . For example a stereoisomerically enriched composition of S butan 2 ol encompasses mixtures of S butan 2 ol and R butan 2 ol in ratios of e.g. about 60 40 70 30 80 20 90 10 95 5 and 98 2.

Unless otherwise indicated the term stereoisomeric mixture encompasses racemic mixtures as well as stereomerically enriched mixtures e.g. R S 30 70 35 65 40 60 45 55 55 45 60 40 65 35 and 70 30 .

Unless otherwise indicated the term stereomerically pure means a composition that comprises one stereoisomer of a compound and is substantially free of other stereoisomers of that compound. For example a stereomerically pure composition of a compound having one stereocenter will be substantially free of the opposite stereoisomer of the compound. A stereomerically pure composition of a compound having two stereocenters will be substantially free of other diastereomers of the compound. A stereomerically pure composition of a compound that has multiple stereocenters but which is drawn or named in such a way that the stereochemistries of less than all of its stereocenters are defined is substantially free of the isomers of the compound that have different stereochemistries at the stereocenters for which stereochemistry is defined. For example stereomerically pure 1R 1 2 dichloropropyl benzene refers to 1R 1 2 dichloropropyl benzene that is substantially free of 1S 1 2 dichloropropyl benzene.

A typical stereomerically pure compound comprises greater than about 80 by weight of one stereoisomer of the compound and less than about 20 by weight of other stereoisomers of the compound greater than about 90 by weight of one stereoisomer of the compound and less than about 10 by weight of the other stereoisomers of the compound greater than about 95 by weight of one stereoisomer of the compound and less than about 5 by weight of the other stereoisomers of the compound greater than about 97 by weight of one stereoisomer of the compound and less than about 3 by weight of the other stereoisomers of the compound or greater than about 99 by weight of one stereoisomer of the compound and less than about 1 by weight of the other stereoisomers of the compound.

Unless otherwise indicated the term substituted when used to describe a chemical structure or moiety refers to a derivative of that structure or moiety wherein one or more of its hydrogen atoms is substituted with an atom chemical moiety or functional group such as but not limited to alcohol aldehylde alkoxy alkanoyloxy alkoxycarbonyl alkenyl alkyl e.g. methyl ethyl propyl t butyl alkynyl alkylcarbonyloxy OC O alkyl amide C O NH alkyl or alkylNHC O alkyl amidinyl C NH NH alkyl or C NR NH amine primary secondary and tertiary such as alkylamino arylamino arylalkylamino aroyl aryl aryloxy azo carbamoyl NHC O O alkyl or OC O NH alkyl carbamyl e.g. CONH as well as CONH alkyl CONH aryl and CONH arylalkyl carbonyl carboxyl carboxylic acid carboxylic acid anhydride carboxylic acid chloride cyano ester epoxide ether e.g. methoxy ethoxy guanidino halo haloalkyl e.g. CCl CF C CF heteroalkyl hemiacetal imine primary and secondary isocyanate isothiocyanate ketone nitrile nitro oxygen i.e. to provide an oxo group phosphodiester sulfide sulfonamido e.g. SONH sulfone sulfonyl including alkylsulfonyl arylsulfonyl and arylalkylsulfonyl sulfoxide thiol e.g. sulfhydryl thioether and urea NHCONH alkyl .

Unless otherwise indicated a therapeutically effective amount of a compound is an amount sufficient to provide a therapeutic benefit in the treatment or management of a disease or condition or to delay or minimize one or more symptoms associated with the disease or condition. A therapeutically effective amount of a compound is an amount of therapeutic agent alone or in combination with other therapies which provides a therapeutic benefit in the treatment or management of the disease or condition. The term therapeutically effective amount can encompass an amount that improves overall therapy reduces or avoids symptoms or causes of a disease or condition or enhances the therapeutic efficacy of another therapeutic agent.

Unless otherwise indicated the term TPH1 IC is the ICof a compound for TPH1 as determined using the in vitro inhibition assay described in the Examples below.

Unless otherwise indicated the term TPH2 IC is the ICof a compound for TPH2 as determined using the in vitro inhibition assay described in the Examples below.

Unless otherwise indicated the terms treat treating and treatment contemplate an action that occurs while a patient is suffering from the specified disease or disorder which reduces the severity of the disease or disorder or one or more of its symptoms or retards or slows the progression of the disease or disorder.

Unless otherwise indicated the term include has the same meaning as include and the term includes has the same meaning as includes but is not limited to. Similarly the term such as has the same meaning as the term such as but not limited to. 

Unless otherwise indicated one or more adjectives immediately preceding a series of nouns is to be construed as applying to each of the nouns. For example the phrase optionally substituted alky aryl or heteroaryl has the same meaning as optionally substituted alky optionally substituted aryl or optionally substituted heteroaryl. 

It should be noted that a chemical moiety that forms part of a larger compound may be described herein using a name commonly accorded it when it exists as a single molecule or a name commonly accorded its radical. For example the terms pyridine and pyridyl are accorded the same meaning when used to describe a moiety attached to other chemical moieties. Thus the two phrases XOH wherein X is pyridyl and XOH wherein X is pyridine are accorded the same meaning and encompass the compounds pyridin 2 ol pyridin 3 ol and pyridin 4 ol.

It should also be noted that if the stereochemistry of a structure or a portion of a structure is not indicated with for example bold or dashed lines the structure or the portion of the structure is to be interpreted as encompassing all stereoisomers of it. Similarly names of compounds having one or more chiral centers that do not specify the stereochemistry of those centers encompass pure stereoisomers and mixtures thereof Moreover any atom shown in a drawing with unsatisfied valences is assumed to be attached to enough hydrogen atoms to satisfy the valences. In addition chemical bonds depicted with one solid line parallel to one dashed line encompass both single and double e.g. aromatic bonds if valences permit.

With regard to the various formulae disclosed herein in particular compounds of the invention Ais aromatic. In others Ais not aromatic. In some Ais optionally substituted with one or more of halogen or lower alkyl.

This invention encompasses stereomerically pure compounds and stereomerically enriched compositions of them. Stereoisomers may be asymmetrically synthesized or resolved using standard techniques such as chiral columns chiral resolving agents or enzymatic resolution. See e.g. Jacques J. et al. Wiley Interscience New York 1981 Wilen S. H. et al. 33 2725 1977 Eliel E. L. McGraw Hill N.Y. 1962 and Wilen S. H. p. 268 E. L. Eliel Ed. Univ. of Notre Dame Press Notre Dame Ind. 1972 .

Particular compounds of the invention are potent TPH1 inhibitors. Specific compounds have a TPH1 ICof less than about 10 5 2.5 1 0.75 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.2 0.1 or 0.05 M.

Particular compounds are selective TPH1 inhibitors. Specific compounds have a TPH1 ICthat is about 10 25 50 100 250 500 or 1000 times less than their TPH2 IC.

Particular compounds do not significantly inhibit human tyrosine hydroxylase TH . For example specific compounds have an ICfor TH of greater than about 100 250 500 or 1000 M.

Particular compounds do not significantly inhibit human phenylalanine hydroxylase PAH . For example specific compounds have an ICfor PAH of greater than about 100 250 500 or 1000 M.

Particular compounds of the invention do not significantly bind e g. inhibit with an ICof greater than about 10 25 50 100 250 500 750 or 1000 M to one or more of the following angiotensin converting enzyme erythropoietin EPO receptor factor IX factor XI integrin e.g. 4 isoxazoline or isoxazole fibrinogen receptor metalloprotease neutral endopeptidase NEP phosphatase e.g. tyrosine phosphatase phosphodiesterase e.g. PDE 4 polymerase PPAR TNF vascular cell adhesion molecule 1 VCAM 1 or the vitronectin receptor. The ability of a compound to bind to e g. inhibit any of these targets can be readily determined using methods known in the art as described in references cited above. Specific compounds of the invention do not inhibit cell adhesion.

When administered to mammals e.g. mice rats dogs monkeys or humans certain compounds of the invention do not readily cross the blood brain barrier e.g. less than about 5 2.5 2 1.5 1 0.5 or 0.01 percent of compound in the blood passes into the brain . The ability or inability of a compound to cross the blood brain barrier can be determined by methods known in the art. See e.g. Riant P. et al. 51 421 425 1988 Kastin A. J. Akerstrom V. 294 633 636 2000 W. A. Banks W. A. et al. 302 1062 1069 2002 .

Compounds of the invention can be prepared by methods known in the art and by methods described herein.

The individual reactions shown in the schemes above can be performed using conditions known in the art. For example palladium catalysts and conditions suitable for the Suzuki coupling of the boron and halogen containing moieties are well known and examples are provided below. In addition types and appropriate uses of protecting groups are well known as are methods of their removal and replacement with moieties such as but not limited to hydrogen e.g. hydrolysis under acidic or basic conditions .

Ester derivatives of compounds of the invention can be readily prepared using methods such as that shown below in Scheme 3 

Using methods known in the art the synthetic approaches shown above are readily modified to obtain a wide range of compounds. For example chiral chromatography and other techniques known in the art may be used to separate stereoisomers of the final product. See e.g. Jacques J. et al. Wiley Interscience New York 1981 Wilen S. H. et al. 33 2725 1977 Eliel E. L. McGraw Hill N.Y. 1962 and Wilen S. H. p. 268 E. L. Eliel Ed. Univ. of Notre Dame Press Notre Dame Ind. 1972 . In addition as shown in some of the schemes above syntheses may utilize chiral starting materials to yield stereomerically enriched or pure products.

This invention encompasses a method of inhibiting TPH which comprises contacting TPH with a compound of the invention i.e. a compound disclosed herein . In a particular method the TPH is TPH1. In another the TPH is TPH2. In a particular method the inhibition is in vitro. In another the inhibition is in vivo.

One embodiment encompasses a method of inhibiting TPH1 in a mammal e.g. a human which comprises administering to the mammal a compound of the invention. In a particular method TPH2 is not significantly inhibited. In one method the compound does not readily cross the blood brain barrier. In another the compound is a selective inhibitor of TPH1.

This invention encompasses methods of treating preventing and managing various diseases and disorders mediated by peripheral serotonin which comprise inhibiting TPH1 activity in a patient in need of such treatment prevention or management. In a particular embodiment the inhibition is accomplished by administering to the patient a therapeutically or prophylactically effective amount of a potent TPH1 inhibitor. Examples of potent TPH1 inhibitors are disclosed herein.

Particular diseases and disorders include carcinoid syndrome and gastrointestinal diseases and disorders. Examples of specific diseases and disorders include abdominal pain e.g. associated with medullary carcinoma of the thyroid anxiety carcinoid syndrome celiac disease constipation e.g. constipation having an iatrogenic cause and idiopathic constipation Crohn s disease depression diabetes diarrhea e.g. bile acid diarrhea enterotoxin induced secretory diarrhea diarrhea having an iatrogenic cause idiopathic diarrhea e.g. idiopathic secretory diarrhea and traveler s diarrhea emesis functional abdominal pain functional anorectal disorders functional bloating functional dyspepsia functional gallbladder disorders irritable bowel syndrome IBS including IBD d IBS c and IBS a lactose intolerance MEN types I and II nausea Ogilvie s syndrome Pancreatic Cholera Syndrome pancreatic insufficiency pheochromacytoma scleroderma somatization disorder sphincter of Oddi disorders ulcerative colitis and Zollinger Ellison Syndrome.

Additional diseases and disorders include cardiovascular and pulmonary diseases and disorders such as acute and chronic hypertension chronic obstructive pulmonary disease COPD pulmonary embolism e.g. bronchoconstriction and pulmonary hypertension following pulmonary embolism pulmonary hypertension e.g. pulmonary hypertension associated with portal hypertension and radiation pneumonitis including that giving rise to or contributing to pulmonary hypertension . Others include abdominal migraine adult respiratory distress syndrome ARDS carcinoid crisis CREST syndrome calcinosis Raynaud s phenomenon esophageal dysfunction sclerodactyly telangiectasia serotonin syndrome and subarachnoid hemorrhage.

In particular methods of the invention the treatment management and or prevention of a disease or disorder is achieved while avoiding adverse effects associated with alteration of central nervous system CNS serotonin levels. Examples of such adverse effects include agitation anxiety disorders depression and sleep disorders e.g. insomnia and sleep disturbance . In particular methods of the invention the treatment management and or prevention of a disease or disorder is achieved while avoiding adverse effects associated with alteration of central nervous system CNS serotonin levels. Examples of such adverse effects include agitation anxiety disorders depression and sleep disorders e.g. insomnia and sleep disturbance .

This invention encompasses pharmaceutical compositions comprising one or more compounds of the invention. Certain pharmaceutical compositions are single unit dosage forms suitable for oral mucosal e.g. nasal sublingual vaginal buccal or rectal parenteral e.g. subcutaneous intravenous bolus injection intramuscular or intraarterial or transdermal administration to a patient. Examples of dosage forms include but are not limited to tablets caplets capsules such as soft elastic gelatin capsules cachets troches lozenges dispersions suppositories ointments cataplasms poultices pastes powders dressings creams plasters solutions patches aerosols e.g. nasal sprays or inhalers gels liquid dosage forms suitable for oral or mucosal administration to a patient including suspensions e.g. aqueous or non aqueous liquid suspensions oil in water emulsions or a water in oil liquid emulsions solutions and elixirs liquid dosage forms suitable for parenteral administration to a patient and sterile solids e.g. crystalline or amorphous solids that can be reconstituted to provide liquid dosage forms suitable for parenteral administration to a patient.

The formulation should suit the mode of administration. For example the oral administration of a compound susceptible to degradation in the stomach may be achieved using an enteric coating. Similarly a formulation may contain ingredients that facilitate delivery of the active ingredient s to the site of action. For example compounds may be administered in liposomal formulations in order to protect them from degradative enzymes facilitate transport in circulatory system and effect their delivery across cell membranes.

Similarly poorly soluble compounds may be incorporated into liquid dosage forms and dosage forms suitable for reconstitution with the aid of solubilizing agents emulsifiers and surfactants such as but not limited to cyclodextrins e.g. cyclodextrin cyclodextrin Captisol and Encapsin see e.g. Davis and Brewster 3 1023 1034 2004 Labrasol Labrafil Labrafac cremafor and non aqueous solvents such as but not limited to ethyl alcohol isopropyl alcohol ethyl carbonate ethyl acetate benzyl alcohol benzyl benzoate propylene glycol 1 3 butylene glycol dimethyl formamide dimethyl sulfoxide DMSO biocompatible oils e.g. cottonseed groundnut corn germ olive castor and sesame oils glycerol tetrahydrofurfuryl alcohol polyethylene glycols fatty acid esters of sorbitan and mixtures thereof e.g. DMSO cornoil .

Poorly soluble compounds may also be incorporated into suspensions using other techniques known in the art. For example nanoparticles of a compound may be suspended in a liquid to provide a nanosuspension see e.g. Rabinow 3 785 796 2004 . Nanoparticle forms of compounds described herein may be prepared by the methods described in U.S. Patent Publication Nos. 2004 0164194 2004 0195413 2004 0251332 2005 0042177 A1 2005 0031691 A1 and U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 145 684 5 510 118 5 518 187 5 534 270 5 543 133 5 662 883 5 665 331 5 718 388 5 718 919 5 834 025 5 862 999 6 431 478 6 742 734 6 745 962 the entireties of each of which are incorporated herein by reference. In one embodiment the nanoparticle form comprises particles having an average particle size of less than about 2000 nm less than about 1000 nm or less than about 500 nm.

The composition shape and type of a dosage form will typically vary depending with use. For example a dosage form used in the acute treatment of a disease may contain larger amounts of one or more of the active ingredients it comprises than a dosage form used in the chronic treatment of the same disease. Similarly a parenteral dosage form may contain smaller amounts of one or more of the active ingredients it comprises than an oral dosage form used to treat the same disease. How to account for such differences will be apparent to those skilled in the art. See e.g. 18ed. Mack Publishing Easton Pa. 1990 .

Pharmaceutical compositions of the invention suitable for oral administration can be presented as discrete dosage forms such as but are not limited to tablets e.g. chewable tablets caplets capsules and liquids e.g. flavored syrups . Such dosage forms contain predetermined amounts of active ingredients and may be prepared by methods of pharmacy well known to those skilled in the art. See generally 18ed. Mack Publishing Easton Pa. 1990 .

Typical oral dosage forms are prepared by combining the active ingredient s in an intimate admixture with at least one excipient according to conventional pharmaceutical compounding techniques. Excipients can take a wide variety of forms depending on the form of preparation desired for administration.

Because of their ease of administration tablets and capsules represent the most advantageous oral dosage unit forms. If desired tablets can be coated by standard aqueous or non aqueous techniques. Such dosage forms can be prepared by conventional methods of pharmacy. In general pharmaceutical compositions and dosage forms are prepared by uniformly and intimately admixing the active ingredients with liquid carriers finely divided solid carriers or both and then shaping the product into the desired presentation if necessary. Disintegrants may be incorporated in solid dosage forms to facility rapid dissolution. Lubricants may also be incorporated to facilitate the manufacture of dosage forms e.g. tablets .

Parenteral dosage forms can be administered to patients by various routes including subcutaneous intravenous including bolus injection intramuscular and intraarterial. Because their administration typically bypasses patients natural defenses against contaminants parenteral dosage forms are specifically sterile or capable of being sterilized prior to administration to a patient. Examples of parenteral dosage forms include solutions ready for injection dry products ready to be dissolved or suspended in a pharmaceutically acceptable vehicle for injection suspensions ready for injection and emulsions.

Suitable vehicles that can be used to provide parenteral dosage forms of the invention are well known to those skilled in the art. Examples include Water for Injection USP aqueous vehicles such as Sodium Chloride Injection Ringer s Injection Dextrose Injection Dextrose and Sodium Chloride Injection and Lactated Ringer s Injection water miscible vehicles such as ethyl alcohol polyethylene glycol and polypropylene glycol and non aqueous vehicles such as corn oil cottonseed oil peanut oil sesame oil ethyl oleate isopropyl myristate and benzyl benzoate.

Exon 3 of the murine TPH1 gene was removed by gene targeting essentially as described by Wattler et al. 26 6 1150 6 1999 . The resulting knockout animals displayed normal TPH activity in the brain but drastically reduced TPH expression in the gut.

Mice homozygous for the disruption of tph1 were studied in conjunction with mice heterozygous for the disruption of the gene along with wild type litter mates. During this analysis the mice were subject to a medical work up using an integrated suite of medical diagnostic procedures designed to assess the function of the major organ systems in a mammalian subject. By studying the homozygous knockout mice in the described numbers and in conjunction with heterozygous and wild type litter mates more reliable and repeatable data was obtained.

Disruption of tph1 gene primarily affected the GI tract isoform of TPH TPH1 and had little or no effect on the brain isoform of TPH TPH2 . Disruption of the gene caused no measurable adverse effects on the central nervous system. This was confirmed by serotonin immunochemistry which showed that serotonin was greatly reduced or absent in the stomach duodenum jejunum ileum cecum and colon while serotonin levels were unaffected in raphe neurons.

Some mice homozygous for the disruption of the tph1 gene exhibited a decrease in thrombosis without a significant increase in bleeding or other adverse indications.

In some of the following synthetic examples high performance liquid chromatography HPLC retention times are provided. The various conditions used to obtain those retention times are described below 

Method A YMC PACK ODS A 3.0 50 mm Solvent A HO 0.1 TFA Solvent B MeOH 0.1 TFA B from 10 to 90 over 4 min. flow rate 2 ml min. observation wavelength 220 and 254 nm.

Method B YMC PACK ODS A 3.0 50 mm Solvent A 90 water 10 MeOH with 0.1 TFA Solvent B 90 MeOH 10 water with 0.1 TFA B from 0 to 100 over 4 min. flow rate 2 ml min. observation wavelength 220 and 254 nm.

Method C ShimPack VP ODS 4.6 50 mm Solvent A 90 HO 10 MeOH 1 TFA Solvent B 10 HO 90 MeOH 1 TFA B from 0 to 100 over 2 min. flow rate 3.5 ml min. observation wavelength 220 and 254 nm.

Method D Shim VP ODS 4.6 50 mm Solvent A HO with 0.1 TFA Solvent B MeOH with 0.1 TFA B from 0 to 100 over 4 min. flow rate 3 ml min. observation wavelength 254 nm.

Method E YMC Pack ODS A 4.6 33 mm Solvent A HO 0.1 TFA Solvent B MeOH with 0.1 TFA B from 10 to 90 over 3 min. flow rate 2 ml min. observation wavelength 220 and 254 nm.

Method F YMC Pack ODS A 3.0 50 mm Solvent A 90 HO 10 MeOH 1 TFA Solvent B 10 HO 90 MeOH 1 TFA B from 10 to 90 over 4 min. flow rate 2 ml min. observation wavelength 220 and 254 nm.

Tetrabutylammonium fluoride 0.027 ml 1.0 M solution in tetrahydrofuran was added to a solution of 4 pyridin 4 yl benzaldehyde 500 mg 2.73 mmol and trifluoromethyltrimethylsilane TMSCF 485 l 3.28 mmol in 5 ml THF at 0 C. The resulting mixture was warmed up to room temperature and stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was then treated with 5 ml of 1N HCl and stirred at room temperature overnight. The solvent was evaporated to dryness 9 ml of 1M sodium carbonate aqueous solution was added the aqueous phase was extracted with chloroform 3 10 ml and the combined chloroform layer was washed with water dried over MgSO. The organic solvent was removed in vacuo to give 360 mg of 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 4 pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanol yield 51 .

The mixture of 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 4 pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanol 100 mg 0.40 mmol 2 amino 4 6 dichloropyrimidine 60 mg 0.38 mmol and cesium carbonate 468 mg 1.44 mmol was dissolved in 2 ml of 1 4 dioxane in a 50 ml sealed tube. The mixture was heated at 110 C. overnight then was cooled to room temperature 10 ml of ethyl acetate was added and then filtered through Celite. The filtrate was concentrated to give 120 mg of 4 chloro 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 4 pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 2 ylamine yield 80 .

In a microwave vial 4 chloro 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 4 pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 2 ylamine 30 mg 0.080 mmol 4 borono L phenylalanine 21 mg 0.098 mmol and 1 ml of actonitrile and 0.7 ml of water were mixed together. Then 0.3 ml of 1N aqueous sodium carbonate was added to mixture followed by 5 mole percent of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated at 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave irradiation. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol and then was purified by Prep LC to give 6.7 mg of S 2 Amino 3 4 2 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluro 1 4 pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD ppm 8.82 s 2H 8.26 s 2H 8.02 d J 8 Hz 2H 7.97 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.86 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.45 d J 8 Hz 2H 6.89 q J 6.8 Hz 1H 6.81 d J 2 Hz 1H 4.29 t J 1.6 Hz 1H 3.39 m 1H 3.19 m 1H .

Tetrabutylammonium fluoride 0.027 ml 1.0 M solution in tetrahydrofuran was added to a solution of 2 pyridin 4 yl benzaldehyde 500 mg 2.73 mmol and trifluoromethyltrimethylsilane TMSCF 485 l 3.28 mmol in 5 ml of THF at 0 C. The formed mixture was warmed up to room temperature and stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was then treated with 5 ml of 1N HCl and stirred at room temperature overnight. The solvent was evaporated to dryness 9 ml of 1M sodium carbonate aqueous solution was added the aqueous phase was extracted with chloroform 3 10 ml and the combined organic layer was washed with water dried over MgSO. The organic solvent was evaporated to give 300 mg of 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanol yield 43 .

The mixture of 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethanol 100 mg 0.40 mmol 4 6 dichloro pyrimidine 54 mg 0.38 mmol cesium carbonate 468 mg 1.44 mmol and 1 4 dioxane 1 ml . The mixture was heated at 110 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature. 10 ml of ethyl acetate was added and then the mixture was filtered through Celite. The filtrate was concentrated to give 110 mg of 4 chloro 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidine yield 76 .

In a microwave vial 4 chloro 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 4 pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidine 30 mg 0.082 mmol 4 borono L phenylalanine 21 mg 0.098 mmol 1 ml of actonitrile and 0.7 ml of water were mixed together. Then 0.3 ml of 1N aqueous sodium carbonate was added to the mixture followed by 5 mole percent of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated at 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave irradiation. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol and then was purified by Prep LC to give 19 mg of S 2 Amino 3 4 6 2 2 2 trifluro 1 2 pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD ppm 8.94 d J 6 Hz 2H 8.79 d J 1.2 Hz 1H 8.15 m 4H 7.84 t J 5.2 Hz 1H 7.62 m 3H 7.46 m 3H . 6.66 q J 6.4 Hz 1H 4.31 q J 6 Hz 1H 3.41 m 1H 3.26 m 1H .

In a microwave vial 3 bromo 4 methyl thiophene 653 mg 3.69 mmol 2 formyl phenylboronic acid 500 mg 3.36 mmol and 7 ml of actonitrile were mixed together. 6.7 ml of 1N aqueous sodium carbonate was added to above solution followed by 5 mole percent of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated at 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave irradiation. After cooling 50 ml of ethyl acetate was added the organic layer was separated washed with water dried with sodium sulfate. The organic solvent was evaporated to give crude product which was purified by ISCO CombiFlash column to give 530 mg of 2 4 methyl thiophen 3 yl benzaldehyde yield 78 .

Tetrabutylammonium fluoride 0.013 ml 1.0 M solution in tetrahydrofuran was added to a solution of 2 4 methylthiophen 3 yl benzaldehyde 260 mg 1.29 mmol and trifluoromethyltrimethylsilane TMSCF 228 l 1.54 mmol in 5 ml of THF at 0 C. The formed mixture was warmed up to room temperature and stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was then treated with 5 ml of 1N HCl and stirred at room temperature overnight. The product was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 50 ml . The organic layer was separated and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic solvent was evaporated to give 340 mg of 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 4 methyl thiophen 3 yl phenyl ethanol yield 97 .

A mixture of 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 4 methyl thiophen 3 yl phenyl ethanol 100 mg 0.37 mmol 2 amino 4 6 dichloro pyrimidine 54 mg 0.33 mmol cesium carbonate 481 mg 1.48 mmol and 1 4 dioxane 1 ml was heated at 110 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature 10 ml of ethyl acetate was added. The mixture was then filtered through Celite the filtrate was concentrated to give 100 mg of 4 chloro 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 4 methyl thiophen 3 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 2 ylamine yield 76 .

In a microwave vial 4 chloro 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 4 methyl thiophen 3 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 2 ylamine 30 mg 0.075 mmol 4 borono L phenylalanine 19 mg 0.09 mmol 1 ml of actonitrile and 0.7 ml of water were mixed. 0.3 ml of 1N aqueous sodium carbonate was added to mixture followed by 5 mole percent of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated at 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave irradiation. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol and then was purified by Prep HPLC to give 15.1 mg of S 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluro 1 2 4 methyl thiophen 3 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD ppm 7.94 d J 8 Hz 2H 7.80 s 1H 7.50 m 5H 7.25 m 2H 7.03 s 1H 6.94 s 1H 4.31 t J 5.6 1H 3.48 m 1H 3.26 m 1H 1.98 s 3H .

In a microwave vial 4 bromo 2 methyl thiophene 653 mg 3.69 mmol 2 formyl phenylboronic acid 500 mg 3.36 mmol and 7 ml of actonitrile were mixed. 6.7 ml of 1N aqueous sodium carbonate was added to above solution followed by 5 mole percent of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated at 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave irradiation. After cooling 50 ml of ethyl acetate was added the organic layer was separated washed with water dried with sodium sulfate the organic solvent was evaporated and the residue was purified by ISCO to give 550 mg of 2 5 methyl thiophen 3 yl benzaldehyde yield 81 .

Tetrabutylammonium fluoride 0.028 ml 1.0 M solution in tetrahydrofuran was added to a solution of 2 5 methylthiophen 3 yl benzaldehyde 550 mg 1.29 mmol and trifluoromethyltrimethylsilane TMSCF 483 l 3.27 mmol in 10 ml of THF at 0 C. The formed mixture was warmed up to room temperature and stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was then treated with 10 ml of 1N HCl and stirred at room temperature overnight. The product was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 50 ml . The organic layer was separated and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic solvent was evaporated to give 650 mg of 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 5 methyl thiophen 3 yl phenyl ethanol yield 87 . A mixture of 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 5 methyl thiophen 3 yl phenyl ethanol 100 mg 0.37 mmol 2 amino 4 6 dichloro pyrimidine 54 mg 0.33 mmol cesium carbonate 481 mg 1.48 mmol and 1 4 dioxane 2 ml was heated at 110 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature 10 ml of ethyl acetate was added. The mixture was then filtered through Celite the filtrate was concentrated to give 90 mg of 4 chloro 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 5 methyl thiophen 3 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 2 ylamine yield 68 

In a microwave vial 4 chloro 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 5 methyl thiophen 3 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 2 ylamine 30 mg 0.075 mmol 4 borono L phenylalanine 19 mg 0.09 mmol 1 ml of actonitrile and 0.7 ml of water were mixed. 0.3 ml of 1N aqueous sodium carbonate was added to the mixture followed by 5 mole percent of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated at 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave irradiation. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol and then was purified by Prep LC to give 10.1 mg of S 2 Amino 3 4 2 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluro 1 2 5 methyl thiophen 3 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD ppm 7.83 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.63 d J 7.2 Hz 1H 7.34 m 4H 7.26 m 1H 7.12 d J 1.2 Hz 1H 6.92 q J 6.8 1H 6.82 d J 1.2 Hz 1H 6.64 s 1H 4.21 t J 5.6 Hz 1H 3.29 m 1H 3.20 m 1H 2.47 s 3H .

In a microwave vial 3 bromo furan 590 mg 4.02 mmol 4 formyl phenylboronic acid 600 mg 4.02 mmol and 7 ml of actonitrile were mixed. 8 ml of 1N aqueous sodium carbonate was then added to the mixture followed by 5 mole percent of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated at 150 C. for 7 minutes with microwave irradiation. After cooling 50 ml of ethyl acetate was added the organic layer was separated washed with water dried over sodium sulfate. The organic solvent was evaporated to give crude product which was purified by ISCO to give 410 mg of 4 furan 3 yl benzaldehyde yield 60 .

Tetrabutylammonium fluoride 0.024 ml 1.0 M solution in tetrahydrofuran was added to a solution of 4 furan 3 yl benzaldehyde 410 mg 2.38 mmol and trifluoromethyltrimethylsilane TMSCF 423 l 2.86 mmol in 5 ml THF at 0 C. The formed mixture was warmed up to room temperature and stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was then treated with 5 ml of 1N HCl and stirred at room temperature overnight. The product was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 50 ml . The organic layer was separated and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic solvent was evaporated to give 480 mg of 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 4 furan 3 yl phenyl ethanol yield 83 .

The mixture of 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 4 furan 3 yl phenyl ethanol 100 mg 0.4 mmol 2 amino 4 6 dichloro pyrimidine 60 mg 0.36 mmol cesium carbonate 468 mg 1.44 mmol ans 1 4 dioxane 1 ml was heated at 110 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature 10 ml of ethyl acetate was added. The mixture was then filtered through Celite the filtrate was concentrated to give 110 mg of 4 chloro 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 4 furan 3 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 2 ylamine yield 72 .

In a microwave vial 4 chloro 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 4 furan 3 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 2 ylamine 30 mg 0.081 mmol 4 borono L phenylalanine 20 mg 0.098 mmol 1 ml of actonitrile and 0.7 ml of water were mixed. Then 0.3 ml of 1N aqueous sodium carbonate was added to the mixture followed by 5 mole percent of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated at 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave irradiation. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol and then was purified by Prep LC to give 7.2 mg of S 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 4 furan 3 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD ppm 7.96 m 3H 7.61 m 5H 6.81 s 1H 6.77 d J 6.8 Hz 1H 6.74 d J 4.8 Hz 1H 4.27 q J 5.6 Hz 1H 3.36 m 1H 3.21 m 1H .

Sodium triacetoxyborohydride 844 mg 4 mmol was added to a solution of 5 bromo furan 2 carbaldehyde 350 mg 2 mmol and dimethyl amine 2 ml 2M solution in THF in 10 ml of 1 2 dichloroethane DCE . 0.2 ml of HOAc was then added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight followed by addition of 15 ml of DCE. The organic phase was washed with water dried over sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed by rotovap to give 400 mg of 5 bromo furan 2 ylmethyl dimethyl amine yield 97 .

In a microwave vial 5 bromo furan 2 ylmethyl dimethyl amine 385 mg 1.88 mmol 2 formyl phenylboronic acid 288 mg 1.93 mmol and 3.7 ml of actonitrile were mixed. Then 3.7 ml of 1N aqueous sodium carbonate was added to the mixture followed by 5 mole percent of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated at 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave irradiation. After cooling 20 ml of 1N HCl was added. The mixture was extracted by ethyl acetate 3 10 ml and the ethyl acetate layer was discarded. 1N NaOH solution was added to aqueous phase to adjust pH to 10 then extracted with ethyl acetate 3 20 ml . The combined organic layer was washed with water and dried over sodium sulfate. The solvent was evaporated to give 300 mg of 2 4 dimethylaminomethyl cyclopenta 1 3 dienyl benzaldehyde yield 69 .

Tetrabutylammonium fluoride 0.013 ml 1.0 M solution in tetrahydrofuran was added to a solution of 2 4 dimethylaminomethyl cyclopenta 1 3 dienyl benzaldehyde 287 mg 1.25 and trifluoromethyltrimethylsilane TMSCF 222 l 1.5 mmol in 5 ml THF at 0 C. The formed mixture was warmed up to room temperature and stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was then treated with 5 ml of 1N HCl and stirred at room temperature overnight. The product was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 50 ml . The organic layer was separated and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic solvent was evaporated to give 250 mg of 1 2 5 dimethylaminomethyl furan 2 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol yield 66 .

The mixture of 1 2 5 dimethylaminomethyl furan 2 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol 225 mg 0.75 mmol 2 amino 4 6 dichloro pyrimidine 111 mg 0.67 mmol cesium carbonate 978 mg 3.01 mmol and 1 4 dioxane 3 ml was heated at 110 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature 10 ml of ethyl acetate was added. The mixture was then filtered through Celite the filtrate was concentrated to give 110 mg of 4 chloro 6 1 2 5 dimethylaminomethyl furan 2 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidin 2 ylamine yield 87 .

In a microwave vial 4 chloro 6 1 2 5 dimethylaminomethyl furan 2 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidin 2 ylamine 37 mg 0.087 mmol 4 borono L phenylalanine 22 mg 0.10 mmol 1 ml of actonitrile and 0.7 ml of water were mixed. Then 0.3 ml of 1N aqueous sodium carbonate was added followed by 5 mole percent of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated at 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave irradiation. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol and then was purified by Prep LC to give 16 mg of S 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 1 2 5 dimethylaminomethyl furan 2 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD ppm 7.88 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.71 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.62 d J 7.6 Hz 1H 7.42 m 2H 7.40 d J 1.6 Hz 2H 7.34 d J 8.4 Hz 1H 6.89 q J 3.6 Hz 2H 6.66 s 1H 4.54 s 2H 4.20 q J 6 Hz 1H 3.3 m 1H 3.14 m 1H 2.84 s 6H .

In a microwave vial 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyridine 2 carbonitrile 279 mg 1.51 mmol 2 bromo benzaldehyde 230 mg 1 mmol and 2 ml of actonitrile were mixed. Then 2 ml of 1N aqueous sodium carbonate was added followed by 5 mole percent of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated at 100 C. for 10 minutes with microwave irradiation. After cooling 50 ml of ethyl acetate was added the organic layer was separated washed with water and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic solvent was evaporated to give crude product which was purified by ISCO to give 150 mg of 5 2 formyl phenyl pyridine 2 carbonitrile yield 72 .

Tetrabutylammonium fluoride 5.3 l 1.0 M solution in tetrahydrofuran was added to a solution of 5 2 formyl phenyl pyridine 2 carbonitrile 110 mg 0.53 mmol and trifluoromethyltrimethylsilane 120 l 0.81 mmol in 5 ml THF at 0 C. The formed mixture was warmed up to room temperature and stirred at room temperature for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was then treated with 5 ml of 1N HCl and stirred at room temperature overnight. The product was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 50 ml . The organic layer was separated and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic solvent was evaporated to give 140 mg of 5 2 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 hydroxy ethyl phenyl pyridine 2 carbonitrile yield 95 .

A mixture of 5 2 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 hydroxy ethyl phenyl pyridine 2 carbonitrile 46 mg 0.165 mmol S 3 4 2 amino 6 chloro pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino propionic acid 59 mg 0.15 mmol cesium carbonate 195 mg 0.6 mmol and 1 4 dioxane 1 ml was heated at 110 C. overnight. The reaction mixture was cooled to room temperature then was poured into 5 ml of water. 1N HCl was added to adjust pH to 4.5 the aqueous phase was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 10 ml . The combined organic layer was washed with brine and dried over sodium sulfate. The solvent was evaporated to give 80 mg of crude S 3 4 2 amino 6 1 2 6 cyanopyridin 3 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino propionic acid yield 84 .

80 mg of S 3 4 2 amino 6 1 2 6 cyanopyridin 3 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino propionic acid was dissolved in the solution of 30 trifluoro acetic acid in dichloromethane 5 ml . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 1 hour. The solvent was evaporated and the residue was purified by preparative HPLC to give 12.6 mg of S 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 1 2 6 cyano pyridin 3 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD ppm 8.86 s 1H 8.17 d J 2 Hz 1H 8.15 d J 2 Hz 1H 7.96 m 2H 7.59 m 1H 7.36 m 3H 6.7 s 1H 6.65 d J 6.8 Hz 1H 4.25 m 1H 3.47 m 1H 3.23 m 1H .

To 2 imidazol 1 yl benzaldehyde 0.344 g 2 mmol in THF 8 ml was added trifluoromethyltrimethyl silane 0.341 g 2.4 mmol . The reaction mixture was cooled to 0 5 C. ice water bath and tetra n butyl ammonium fluoride 0.035 ml 0.035 mmol 1M in THF was added. The ice bath was removed and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 6 hours. 2N HCl 5 ml was added and the reaction mixture was further stirred for 3 hours at room temperature. Solvent was removed on the rotavap under reduced pressure. Crude residue was dissolved in DCM 30 ml washed with water 20 ml brine 20 ml and dried with sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed to give crude 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 imidazol 1 yl phenyl ethanol 0.45 g 93 which was directly used in the next step.

2 Amino 4 6 dichloro pyrimidine 0.107 g 0.65 mmol 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 imidazol 1 yl phenyl ethanol 0.157 g 0.65 mmol and NaH 0.03 g 0.78 mmol were added to anhydrous THF 10 ml under nitrogen. The reaction was stirred at 40 45 C. for 6 h and was then cooled to room temperature and quenched with water 0.2 ml . The reaction mixture was concentrated to give crude 4 chloro 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 imidazol 1 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 2 ylamine 0.24 g 90 pure by LCMS which was directly used in the following step.

The above crude intermediate 0.24 g L p borono phenylalanine 0.140 g 0.67 mmol sodium carbonate 0.14 g 1.32 mmol and dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 15 mg 0.021 mmol were dissolved in a mixture of MeCN 2.0 ml and HO 2.0 ml in a microwave vial. The reaction mixture was sealed and stirred in the microwave reactor at 150 C. for 6 min. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was dissolved in MeOH and HO 1 1 and purified by preparative HPLC using MeOH HO TFA as solvent system to give S 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 imidazol 1 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid as a TFA salt. LCMS M 1 499. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD ppm 3.20 3.41 m 2H 4.30 t 1H 6.61 m 1H 6.88 s 1H 7.48 d 2H 7.69 d 1H 7.72 7.81 m 2H 7.83 m 1H 7.98 m 3H 8.02 m 1H 9.40 m 1H .

To 2 pyrazol 1 yl benzaldehyde 0.344 g 2 mmol in THF 8 ml was added trifluoromethyl trimethyl silane 0.341 g 2.4 mmol . The mixture was cooled to 0 5 C. ice water bath and tetra n butyl ammonium fluoride 0.035 ml 0.035 mmol 1M in THF was added. The ice bath was removed and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 6 h. 2N HCl 5 ml was added and the reaction mixture was further stirred at room temperature for 3 h. Solvent was removed on the rotavap under reduced pressure. The residue was dissolved in DCM 30 ml washed with water 20 ml brine 20 ml and dried over sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed in vacuo to give crude 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 pyrazol 1 yl phenyl ethanol 0.45 g 93 which was directly used in the following experiment.

4 6 Dichloro pyrimidine 0.082 g 0.55 mmol 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 pyrazol 1 yl phenyl ethanol 0.121 g 0.50 mmol NaH 0.03 g 0.78 mmol were added to anhydrous THF 10 ml under nitrogen atmosphere. The reaction was stirred at 40 45 C. for 6 h and then was cooled to room temperature and quenched with water 0.2 ml . The reaction mixture was concentrated to give crude 4 chloro 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 pyrazol 1 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidine 0.20 g 90 pure by LCMS which was directly used in the following step.

The crude intermediate 0.20 g L p borono phenylalanine 0.105 g 0.50 mmol sodium carbonate 0.105 g 1 mmol dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 15 mg 0.021 mmol were dissolved in a mixture of MeCN 2.0 ml and HO 2.0 ml in a microwave vial. The vial was sealed and the reaction mixture was heated in microwave reactor at 150 C. for 6 min. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated. The residue was dissolved in MeOH and HO 1 1 and then purified by preparative HPLC using MeOH HO TFA as solvent system to give S 2 amino 3 4 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 pyrazol 1 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid as a TFA salt. LCMS M 1 484. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD ppm 3.20 3.40 m 2H 4.30 t 1H 6.63 s 1H 7.10 m 1H 7.50 m 3H 7.60 m 3H 7.84 m 2H 8.16 m 3H 8.68 s 1H .

2 2 2 Trifluoro 1 2 iodo phenyl ethanol 0.331 g 1.1 mmol 3 trifluoromethyl pyrazole 0.136 g 1.0 mmol CuI 0.019 g 0.1 mmol KCO 0.290 g 2.1 mmol 1R 2R N N dimethyl cyclohexane 1 2 diamine 0.028 g 0.2 mmol and toluene 10 ml were combined in a 20 ml pressure tube. The mixture was heated at 130 C. oil bath temperature for 12 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with HO 2 20 ml brine and dried by sodium sulfate. Removal of solvent gave crude product which was purified by ISCO column chromatography using 5 10 ethyl acetate in hexane as solvent to give 140 mg of 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 3 trifluoro methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl ethanol.

2 Amino 4 6 dichloro pyrimidine 0.074 g 0.45 mmol 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 3 trifluoro methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl ethanol 0.140 g 0.45 mmol and NaH 0.022 g 0.59 mmol were added to anhydrous THF 10 ml under nitrogen atmosphere. The reaction was stirred at 40 45 C. for 6 h and then cooled to room temperature and quenched with water 0.2 ml . The reaction mixture was concentrated to give crude 4 chloro 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 3 trifluoromethyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidine 2 ylamine 0.21 g 90 pure by LCMS which was directly used in the next step.

Crude intermediate 0.21 g L p borono phenylalanine 0.1 g 0.48 mmol sodium carbonate 0.1 g 0.94 mmol and dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 15 mg 0.021 mmol were dissolved in a mixture of MeCN 2.0 ml and HO 2.0 ml in a microwave vial. The vial was sealed and reaction mixture was heated in the microwave reactor at 150 C. for 6 min. The reaction mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated to give crude product which was dissolved in MeOH and HO 1 1 and purified by preparative HPLC using MeOH HO TFA as solvent system to give S 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 3 trifluoromethyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid as a TFA salt. LCMS M 1 567. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD ppm 3.2 m 1H 3.35 m 1H 4.30 t 1H 6.80 s 1H 6.85 m 1H 6.98 d 1H 7.45 d 2H 7.59 m 1H 7.68 m 2H 7.88 m 1H 7.95 d 2H 8.20 1H .

2 2 2 Trifluoro 1 2 iodo phenyl ethanol 0.331 g 1.1 mmol 3 5 dimethyl pyrazole 0.096 g 1.0 mmol CuI 0.019 g 0.1 mmol KCO 0.290 g 2.1 mmol 1R 2R N N dimethyl cyclohexane 1 2 diamine 0.028 g 0.2 mmol and toluene 10 ml were combined in a 20 ml pressure tube and the mixture was heated at 130 C. oil bath temperature for 12 h. The mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with HO 2 20 ml brine and dried over sodium sulfate. Removal of solvent gave crude product which was purified by ISCO column chromatography using 5 10 ethyl acetate in hexane as solvent to give 1 2 3 5 dimethyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol 120 mg .

2 Amino 4 6 dichloro pyrimidine 0.074 g 0.45 mmol 1 2 3 5 dimethyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol 0.120 g 0.45 mmol NaH 0.022 g 0.59 mmol were added to anhydrous THF 10 ml under nitrogen atmosphere. The reaction was stirred at 40 45 C. for 6 h and then cooled to room temperature and quenched with water 0.2 ml . The reaction mixture was concentrated to give crude 4 chloro 6 1 2 3 5 dimethyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidin 2 ylamine 0.195 g 90 pure by LCMS which was directly used in the following step.

The crude intermediate 0.195 g L p borono phenylalanine 0.10 g 0.48 mmol sodium carbonate 0.10 g 0.95 mmol and dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 15 mg 0.021 mmol were dissolved in a mixture of MeCN 2.0 ml and HO 2.0 ml in a microwave vial. The vial was sealed and reaction mixture was heated in the microwave reactor at 150 C. for 6 min. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated to give crude product which was dissolved in MeOH and HO 1 1 and purified by preparative HPLC using MeOH HO TFA as solvent system to give S 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 1 2 3 5 dimethyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid as a TFA salt. LCMS M 1 527. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD ppm 4.32 t 1H 3.39 m 1H 3.25 m 1H 2.30 s 3H 2.10 s 3H 7.92 m 3H 7.68 m 2H 7.50 d 2H 7.42 m 1H 6.92 m 1H 6.89 s 1H 6.17 s 1H .

2 2 2 Trifluoro 1 2 iodo phenyl ethanol 0.331 g 1.1 mmol 3 phenyl pyrazole 0.144 g 1.0 mmol CuI 0.019 g 0.1 mmol KCO 0.290 g 2.1 mmol 1R 2R N N dimethyl cyclohexane 1 2 diamine 0.028 g 0.2 mmol and toluene 10 ml were taken in a 20 ml pressure tube and the mixture was heated at 130 C. oil bath temperature for 12 h. The mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with HO 2 20 ml brine and dried over sodium sulfate. Removal of solvent gave a crude product which was purified by ISCO column chromatography using 5 10 ethyl acetate in hexane as solvent to afford 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 3 phenyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl ethanol 75 mg .

2 Amino 4 6 dichloro pyrimidine 0.041 g 0.25 mmol 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 3 phenyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl ethanol 0.070 g 0.22 mmol and NaH 0.012 g 0.31 mmol were added to anhydrous THF 7 ml under nitrogen atmosphere. The reaction was stirred at 40 45 C. for 6 h and then cooled to room temperature and quenched with water 0.04 ml . The reaction mixture was concentrated to give crude 4 chloro 6 2 2 2 trfluoro 1 2 3 phenyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 2 ylamine 0.110 g 90 pure by LCMS which was directly used in the following step.

The crude intermediate 0.110 g L p borono phenylalanine 0.050 g 0.24 mmol sodium carbonate 0.050 g 0.48 mmol and dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 8 mg 0.010 mmol were dissolved in a mixture of MeCN 2.0 ml and HO 2.0 ml in a microwave vial. The vial was sealed and reaction mixture was heated in the microwave reactor at 150 C. for 6 min. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated to give a crude product which was dissolved in MeOH and HO 1 1 and purified by preparative HPLC using MeOH HO TFA as solvent system to give S 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 3 phenyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid as a TFA salt. LCMS M 1 575. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD ppm 3.20 m 1H 3.38 m 1H 4.30 t 1H 6.80 s 1H 7.00 s 1H 7.30 7.48 m 7H 7.62 m 3H 7.90 m 4H 8.10 s 1H .

1 2 Bromo 5 methoxy phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol 0.570 g 2.0 mmol 4 methyl pyrazole 0.164 g 2.0 mmol CuI 0.057 g 0.3 mmol KCO 0.580g 4.2 mmol 1R 2R N N dimethyl cyclohexane 1 2 diamine 0.071 g 0.5 mmol and toluene 10 ml were combined in a 20 ml pressure tube and the mixture was heated at 130 C. oil bath temperature for 12 h. The mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with HO 2 20 ml brine and dried over sodium sulfate. Removal of solvent gave a crude product which was purified by ISCO column chromatography using 5 10 ethyl acetate in hexane as solvent to afford 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 5 methoxy 2 4 methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl ethanol 90 mg .

2 2 2 Trifluoro 1 5 methoxy 2 4 methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl ethanol 0.090 g 0.31 mmol S 3 4 2 amino 6 chloro pyrimidine 4 yl phenyl 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino propionic acid 0.122 g 0.31 mmol 1 4 dioxane 2 ml CsCO 0.503 g 1.55 mmol were combined in a microwave vial and heated to 180 C. for 45 min. The mixture was filtered and concentrated. To the residue 5 methanol in DCM 50 ml was added. The mixture was filtered. The filtrate was concentrated to give crude product which was taken in 20 TFA in DCM 30 ml and stirred for 30 minutes at room temperature. LCMS indicated the completion of the reaction with desired product. The reaction mixture was concentrated to give crude product which was dissolved in MeOH and HO 1 1 and purified by preparative HPLC using MeOH HO TFA as solvent system to give S 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 5 methoxy 2 4 methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid.

LCMS M 1 543. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD ppm 2.20 s 3H 3.22 m 1H 3.40 m 1H 3.84 s 3H 4.35 t 1H 6.84 s 1H 6.98 m 1H 7.18 m 1H 7.26 m 1H 7.40 d 1H 7.48 d 2H 7.66 d 2H 7.96 d 2H .

R 1 2 bromo phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol 1.53 g 6 mmol 3 methyl pyrazole 0.492 g 6 mmol CuI 0.456 g 2.4 mmol KCO 2.07 g 15 mmol 1R 2R N N dimethyl cyclohexane 1 2 diamine 0.170 g 1.2 mmol and toluene 10 ml were combined in a 20 ml pressure tube and the mixture was heated at 130 C. oil bath temperature for 12 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with HO 2 20 ml brine and dried over sodium sulfate. Removal of solvent gave a crude product which was purified by ISCO column chromatography using 5 10 ethyl acetate in hexane as solvent to give R 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 3 methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl ethanol 1.8 g .

2 Amino 4 6 dichloro pyrimidine 1.2 g 7.4 mmol R 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 3 methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl ethanol 1.8 g 7.03 mmol and NaH 0.380 g 10 mmol were added to anhydrous THF 40 ml under a nitrogen atmosphere. The reaction was stirred at 40 45 C. for 6 h and then cooled to room temperature and quenched with water 0.1 ml . The reaction mixture was concentrated to give afford 4 chloro 6 R 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 3 methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 2 ylamine 3.0 g 90 pure by LCMS which was directly used in the following step.

The crude intermediate 0.750 g L p borono phenylalanine 0.420 g 2.0 mmol sodium carbonate 0.430 g 4.0 mmol and dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 30 mg 0.043 mmol were dissolved in a mixture of MeCN 7.0 ml and HO 7.0 ml in a microwave vial. The vial was sealed and reaction mixture was heated in the microwave reactor at 150 C. for 7 min. The mixture was filtered and the filtrate was concentrated to give a crude product which was dissolved in MeOH and HO 1 1 and purified by preparative HPLC using MeOH HO TFA as solvent system to give S 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 R 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 3 methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid as a TFA salt. LCMS M 1 514. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD ppm 2.40 s 3H 3.30 m 1H 3.42 m 1H 4.38 t 1H 6.21 s 1H 7.02 s 1H 7.18 m 1H 7.54 d 1H 7.61 m 4H 7.82 m 2H 7.97 d 2H .

1 4 Chloro 2 iodo phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol 0.840 g 2.5 mmol 3 methyl pyrazole 0.230 g 2.8 mmol CuI 0.190 g 1.0 mmol KCO 0.863 g 6.25 mmol 1R 2R N N dimethyl cyclohexane 1 2 diamine 0.071 g 0.5 mmol and toluene 10 ml were combined in a 20 ml pressure tube and the mixture was heated at 130 C. oil bath temperature for 12 h. The mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with HO 2 20 ml brine and dried over sodium sulfate. Removal of solvent gave a crude product which was purified by ISCO column chromatography using 5 10 ethyl acetate in hexane as solvent to afford 1 4 chloro 2 3 methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol 240 mg .

1 4 Chloro 2 3 methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol 0.120 g 0.41 mmol S 3 4 2 amino 6 chloro pyrimidine 4 yl phenyl 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino propionic acid 0.176 g 0.45 mmol 1 4 dioxane 4 ml and CsCO 0.533 g 1.64 mmol were combined in a 20 ml sealed tube and the mixture was heated at 100 C. for 12 h. The mixture was concentrated. To the residue 10 methanol in DCM 50 ml was added and the mixture was filtered. The filtrate was concentrated to give a crude product which was taken in THF 3N HCl 30 ml 15 ml and the resulting mixture was stirred at 40 45 C. for 12 h. LCMS indicated the completion of reaction with desired product. The mixture was concentrated to give a crude product which was dissolved in MeOH and HO 1 1 and purified by preparative HPLC using MeOH HO TFA as solvent system to give S 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 1 4 chloro 2 3 methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidine 4 yl phenyl propionic acid as a TFA salt. LCMS M 1 547. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD ppm 2.30 s 3H 3.10 3.30 m 2H 4.20 t 1H 6.32 d 1H 6.74 s 1H 7.0 q 1H 7.38 d 2H 7.50 m 2H 7.72 m 1H 7.90 m 3H .

Step 1 Synthesis of 1 2 bromo 4 chloro phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanone. To a 500 ml 2 necked RB flask containing anhydrous methanol 300 ml was added thionyl chloride 29.2 ml 400 mmol dropwise at 0 5 C. ice water bath over 10 min. The ice water bath was removed and 2 bromo 4 chloro benzoic acid 25 g 106 mmol was added. The mixture was heated to mild reflux for 12 h. Progress of the reaction was monitored by TLC and LCMS. After completion of the reaction the reaction mixture was concentrated. Crude product was dissolved in dichloromethane DCM 250 ml washed with water 50 ml sat. aq. NaHCO 50 ml brine 50 ml dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to give the 2 bromo 4 chloro benzoic acid methyl ester 26 g 99 which was directly used in the following step.

2 Bromo 4 chloro benzoic acid methyl ester 12.4 g 50 mmol in toluene 200 ml was cooled to 70 C. and trifluoromethyl trimethyl silane 13 ml 70 mmol was added. Tetrabutylamonium fluoride 1M 2.5 ml was added dropwise and the mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature over 4 h after which it was stirred for 10 h at room temperature. The reaction mixture was concentrated to give the crude 1 2 bromo 4 chloro phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 methoxy ethoxy trimethyl silane. The crude intermediate was dissolved in methanol 100 ml and 6N HCl 100 ml was added. The mixture was kept at 45 50 C. for 12 h. Methanol was removed and the crude was extracted with dichloromethane 200 ml . The combined DCM layer was washed with water 50 ml NaHCO 50 ml brine 50 ml and dried over sodium sulfate. Removal of solvent gave a crude product which was purified by ISCO column chromatography using 1 2 ethyl acetate in hexane as solvent to afford 1 2 bromo 4 chloro phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanone 10 g 70 . H NMR 300 MHz CDCl ppm 7.50 d 1H 7.65 d 1H 7.80 s 1H .

Step 2 Synthesis of R 1 2 bromo 4 chloro phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol. To catechol borane 1M in THF 280 ml 280 mmol in a 2L 3 necked RB flask was added S 2 methyl CBS oxazaborolidine 7.76 g 28 mmol under nitrogen and the resulting mixture was stirred at room temperature for 20 min. The reaction mixture was cooled to 78 C. dry ice acetone bath and 1 2 bromo 4 chloro phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanone 40 g 139 mmol in THF 400 ml was added dropwise over 2 h. The reaction mixture was allowed to warm to 36 C. and was stirred at that temperature for 24 h and further stirred at 32 C. for another 24 h. 3N NaOH 250 ml was added and the cooling bath was replaced by ice water bath. Then 30 hydrogen peroxide in water 250 ml was added dropwise over 30 minutes. The ice water bath was removed and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 4 h. The organic layer was separated concentrated and re dissolved in ether 200 ml . The aqueous layer was extracted with ether 2 200 ml . The combined organic layers were washed with 1N aq. NaOH 4 100 ml brine and dried over sodium sulfate. Removal of solvent gave crude product which was purified by column chromatography using 2 to 5 ethyl acetate in hexane as solvent to give desired alcohol 36.2 g 90 e.e. 95 . The alcohol 36.2 g was crystallized from hexane 80 ml to obtain R 1 2 bromo 4 chloro phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol 28.2 g 70 99 100 e.e. . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl ppm 5.48 m 1H 7.40 d 1H 7.61 d 2H .

Step 3 Synthesis of R 1 4 chloro 2 3 methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol. R 1 2 bromo 4 chloro phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol 15.65 g 54.06 mmol 3 methylpyrazole 5.33 g 65 mmol CuI 2.06 g 10.8 mmol KCO 15.7 g 113.5 mmol 1R 2R N N dimethyl cyclohexane 1 2 diamine 1.54 g 10.8 mmol and toluene 80 ml were combined in a 250 ml pressure tube and heated to 130 C. oil bath temperature for 12 h. The reaction mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with HO 4 100 ml brine and dried over sodium sulfate. Removal of solvent gave a crude product which was purified by ISCO column chromatography using 5 10 ethyl acetate in hexane as solvent to get R 1 4 chloro 2 3 methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol 13.5 g 86 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl ppm 2.30 s 3H 4.90 m 1H 6.20 s 1H 6.84 d 1H 7.20 s 1H 7.30 d 1H 7.50 d 1H .

Step 4 Synthesis of S 2 Amino 3 4 2 amino 6 R 1 4 chloro 2 3 methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid ethyl ester. R 1 4 chloro 2 3 methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol 17.78 g 61.17 mmol S 3 4 2 amino 6 chloro pyrimidine 4 yl phenyl 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino propionic acid 20.03 g 51 mmol 1 4 dioxane 250 ml and CsCO 79.5 g 244 mmol were combined in a 3 necked 500 ml RB flask and heated to 100 C. oil bath temperature for 12 24 h. The progress of reaction was monitored by LCMS. After the completion of the reaction the mixture was cooled to 60 C. and water 250 ml and THF 400 ml were added. The organic layer was separated and washed with brine 150 ml . The solvent was removed to give crude BOC protected product which was taken in THF 400 ml 3N HCl 200 ml . The mixture was heated at 35 40 C. for 12 h. THF was removed in vacuo. The remaining aqueous layer was extracted with isopropyl acetate 2 100 ml and concentrated separately to recover the unreacted alcohol 3.5 g . Traces of remaining organic solvent were removed from the aqueous fraction under vacuum.

To a 1 L beaker equipped with a temperature controller and pH meter was added HPO 40 ml 85 in water and water 300 ml then 50 NaOH in water to adjust pH to 6.15. The temperature was raised to 58 C. and the above acidic aqueous solution was added dropwise into the buffer with simultaneous addition of 50 NaOH solution in water so that the pH was maintained between 6.1 to 6.3. Upon completion of addition precipitated solid was filtered and washed with hot water 50 60 C. 2 200 ml and dried to give crude S 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 R 1 4 chloro 2 3 methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid 26.8 g 95 . LCMS and HPLC analysis indicated the compound purity was about 96 97 .

To anhydrous ethanol 400 ml was added SOCl 22 ml 306 mmol dropwise at 0 5 C. Crude acid 26.8 g from the above reaction was added. The ice water bath was removed and the reaction mixture was heated at 40 45 C. for 6 12 h. After the reaction was completed ethanol was removed in vacuo. To the residue was added ice water 300 ml and extracted with isopropyl acetate 2 100 ml . The aqueous solution was neutralized with saturated NaCOto adjust the pH to 6.5. The solution was extracted with ethyl acetate 2 300 ml . The combined ethyl acetate layer was washed with brine and concentrated to give 24 g of crude ester HPLC purity of 96 97 . The crude ester was then purified by ISCO column chromatography using 5 ethanol in DCM as solvent to give S 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 R 1 4 chloro 2 3 methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid ethyl ester 20.5 g 70 HPLC purity of 98 . LCMS M 1 575. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD ppm 1.10 t 3H 2.25 s 3H 2.85 m 2H 3.65 m 1H 4.00 q 2H 6.35 s 1H 6.60 s 1H 6.90 m 1H 7.18 d 2H 7.45 m 2H 7.70 d 1H 7.85 m 3H .

 S 2 Amino 3 4 2 amino 6 R 1 4 chloro 2 3 methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid ethyl ester 22.2 g 38.6 mmol was dissolved in THF 220 ml and water 50 ml . Lithium hydroxide monohydrate 5.56 g 132 mmol was added. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature for 12 h. THF was removed and water 100 ml was added to the residue to get the clear solution.

To a 1 L beaker equipped with a temperature controller and pH meter was added HPO 40 ml 85 in water water 300 ml and 50 NaOH in water to adjust the pH to 6.15. The temperature was raised to 58 C. and the aqueous Li salt of the compound was added dropwise into the buffer with simultaneous addition of 3N HCl so that the pH was maintained at 6.1 to 6.2. Upon completion of addition precipitated solid was filtered and washed with hot water 50 60 C. 2 200 ml and dried to give S 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 R 1 4 chloro 2 3 methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid 19.39 g 92 . LCMS and the HPLC analysis indicated the compound purity was about 98 99 . LCMS M 1 547. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD ppm 2.40 s 3H 3.22 3.42 m 2H 4.38 t 1H 6.42 s 1H 7.10 s 1H 7.21 m 1H 7.60 m 4H 7.81 d 1H 7.92 m 3H .

To a 40 ml microwave reactor was added 1.04 g of 2 formyl phenylboronic acid 6.9 mmoles 1.14 g of 2 bromo thiazole 6.9 mmoles 240 mg of palladium bistriphenyl phosphine dichloride Pd PPh Cl 0.34 mmoles . Then 13.8 ml of 1M NaCO 13.8 mmoles and 10 ml of CHCN were added to the mixture. The reactor was sealed and the reaction was run under microwave at 160 C. for 5 minutes. LCMS shows completion of the reaction with desired product. The reaction mixture was then poured into a separation funnel. Then 200 ml of methylene chloride and 100 ml of water were added for extraction. The methylene chloride layer was dried over MgSO. Removal of solvent gave a crude product which was purified by silica gel column chromatography eluting with hexanes ethyl acetate mixture 5 1 to 2 1 to give pure 2 thiazol 2 yl benzaldehyde 0.5 g yield 38 .

To a 50 ml round bottom flask 184 mg of 2 thiazol 2 yl benzaldehyde 0.97 mmole and 10 ml of anhydrous tetrahydrofuran THF were added. Then 145.4 mg of trifluoromethyltrimethylsilane 1.02 mmoles and 20 l of 1M tert butylammonium fluoride in THF 0.02 mmole were added to solution. The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight after which 10 ml of 1 N HCl was added and the reaction mixture was stirred at r.t. for 15 minutes. THF was removed in vacuo and the mixture was extracted with methylene chloride 3 50 ml . The combined CHCllayer was dried over MgSO. Removal of solvent gave 262 mg of crude product which was about 95 pure and was used in next step without further purification.

2 2 2 Trifluoro 1 2 thiazol 2 yl phenyl ethanol 260 mg 1 mmole S 3 4 2 amino 6 chloro pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino propionic acid 390 mg 1 mmole cesium carbonate 1.3 g 4 mmoles and 10 ml of 1 4 dioxane were mixed together in a 50 ml sealed tube. The reaction mixture was heated at 100 C. for 3 days. Water 20 ml was added and then 1N HCl aq. was added slowly to adjust the pH to 4 then the 1 4 dioxane was removed in vacuo and the resulting mixture was extracted with methylene chloride 3 50 ml . The combine methylene chloride layer was dried over MgSO. Removal of solvent gave a crude product which was taken to next step reaction without further purification.

The above crude product was dissolved in 5 ml of methylene chloride and 0.4 ml of trifluoroacetic acid was added. The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. The trifluoroacetic acid was then removed in vacuo to give a crude product which was purified by prep HPLC to give 63 mg of pure product. HPLC YMC Pack ODS A 3 50 mm 7 um Solvent A water with 0.1 TFA Solvent B methanol with 0.1 TFA. Solvent B from 10 to 90 over 4 minutes Flow rate 2 ml min RT 3 min. HPLC purity 100 . LCMS M 1 515.9. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 8.06 ppm 2H m 7.92 2H d J 8 Hz 7.84 1H m 7.81 1H m 7.77 1H d J 4 Hz 7.57 2H m 7.45 2H J 8 Hz 6.84 1H s 4.30 2H dd J 8 Hz 3.38 2H dd J 12 2 Hz 3.23 2H dd J 12 8 Hz .

In this approach tetra n butyl ammonium fluoride 0.05 eq. was added to a mixture of substituted benzaldehyde 1 eq. and trifluoromethyl trimethylsilane 1.2 eq. in THF at 0 C. The temperature was then allowed to warm to room temperature. The mixture was stirred at room temperature for 5 h then diluted with ethyl acetate washed with water brine and dried by MgSO. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure to give the trifluoro alcohol as crude product which was used in next step without further purification.

The above made alcohol 1 eq. was dissolved in anhydrous 1 4 dioxane. Sodium hydride 60 in mineral oil 1.2 eq. was added all at once and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. 2 Amino 4 6 dichloropyrimidine 1 eq. was added and the resulting mixture was stirred at 80 C. for 2 h. The solvent was removed and the residue was suspended in ethyl acetate which was washed with water dried over MgSOand then concentrated to give the desired monochloride product which was used in next step without further purification.

The above crude product 1 eq. was added to a 5 ml microwave vial containing 4 borono L phenylalanine 1 eq. NaCO 2 eq. acetonitrile 2 ml water 2 ml and dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium 0.05 eq. . The vial was capped and the mixture was heated at 150 C. for 5 min under microwave radiation. The mixture was cooled filtered through a syringe filter and then separated by a reverse phase preparative HPLC using YMC Pack ODS 100 30 mm ID column MeOH HO TFA solvent system . The pure fractions were combined and concentrated in vacuum. The product was then suspended in 5 ml of water frozen and lyophilized to give the product as a trifluoro acetic acid TFA salt.

 S 2 Amino 3 4 2 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 pyridin 3 yloxy phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 3.05 3.40 m 2H 3.81 m 1H 6.64 s 1H 7.01 d 1H 7.15 7.54 m 7H 7.74 d 1H 7.94 d 2H 8.35 m 2H .

 S 2 Amino 3 4 2 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 4 pyridin 3 yloxy phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 3.20 3.41 m 2H 4.30 m 1H 6.81 m 2H 7.17 m 2H 7.46 7.69 m 6H 7.93 d 2H 8.41 s 2H .

 S 2 Amino 3 4 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 4 pyridin 3 yloxy phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 300 MHz CDOD 3.15 3.35 m 2H 4.25 t 1H 6.90 q 1H 7.25 d 2H 7.45 d 2H 7.71 m 3H 7.99 m 3H 8.14 8.18 m 1H 8.55 d 1H 8.63 d 1H 8.84 d 1H .

 S 2 Amino 3 4 2 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 4 thiophen 2 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 3.03 3.31 m 2H 4.19 m 1H 6.68 m 2H 7.00 m 1H 7.31 7.36 m 4H 7.52 m 2H 7.62 d 2H 7.85 d 2H .

 S 2 Amino 3 4 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 4 imidazol 1 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 3.03 3.31 m 2H 4.19 m 1H 6.88 m 1H 7.32 8.63 m 11H 8.64 s 1H 9.25 s 1H .

 S 2 Amino 3 4 2 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 4 1 2 4 triazol 1 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 3.07 3.36 m 2H 4.16 m 1H 6.65 s 1H 6.75 m 1H 7.31 d 2H 7.69 d 2H 7.85 m 4H 8.08 s 1H 9.03 s 1H .

In this approach the bromo substituted benzyl aldehyde 1 eq was added to a 20 ml microwave vial which contained aromatic heterocyclic boronic acid 1 eq NaCO 2 eq acetonitrile 8 ml water 8 ml and dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium 0.05 eq . The vial was capped and stirred at 150 C. for 6 min under microwave radiation. The reaction mixture was cooled filtered through a syringe filter and then diluted with ethyl acetate. It was washed with water. Silica gel was then added to make a plug and it was purified by chromatography eluted with hexane and ethyl acetate.

 S 2 Amino 3 4 2 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 4 fluoro 2 thiophen 3 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 3.08 3.30 m 2H 4.19 m 1H 6.61 s 1H 6.84 m 1H 7.02 7013 m 2H 7.22 dd 1H 7.32 d 2H 7.47 m 1H 7.77 m 1H 7.84 d 2H .

 S 2 Amino 3 4 2 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 4 fluoro 2 4 methyl thiophen 2 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 2.26 s 3H 3.09 3.30 m 2H 4.20 m 1H 6.64 s 1H 6.95 m 2H 7.13 m 3H 7.34 d 2H 7.69 m 1H 7.83 d 2H .

 S 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 1 2 3 5 dimethyl isoxazol 4 yl 4 fluoro phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 1.89 2.19 m 6H 2.97 3.30 m 2H 3.83 m 1H 6.55 d 1H 6.74 6.87 m 1H 7.00 m 1H 7.7.24 7.33 m 3H 7.88 m 3H .

The mixture of 2 bromo 5 fluoro benzoic acid methyl ester 1 g 4.292 mmol NaBH 0.423 g 11.159 mmol and LiCl 0.474 g 11.159 mmol in THF EtOH 20 ml 10 ml was stirred at room temperature overnight. Aqueous HCl 10 ml 2N was added and stirred for about 10 min. Then the organic solvent was removed under low vacuum. The residue was diluted with water and extracted by ethyl acetate. The organic layer was washed with aqueous NaHCO 10 water and brine and then dried MgSO and concentrated to afford 852 mg 96.8 crude yield crude product 2 bromo 5 fluoro phenyl methanol as a white solid which was used without further purification.

To the solution of 2 bromo 5 fluoro phenyl methanol 0.852 g 4.156 mmol in DCM 15 ml was added MnO 4.254 g 85 41.56 mmol . The mixture was stirred at room temperature for two days and then filtered and washed with DCM. The filtrate was concentrated to afford 777 mg 2 bromo 5 fluoro benzaldehyde 92 yield . The newly made aldehyde 0.777 g 3.828 mmol was then dissolved in anhydrous THF 10 ml and cooled to 0 C. Trifluoromethyl trimethylsilane 1.13 ml 7.656 mmol was added and followed by tetrabutyl ammonium fluoride 0.020 g 0.076 mmol . The temperature was then allowed to warm to room temperature. The mixture was stirred for 5 h at room temperature then diluted with ethyl acetate washed with water brine and dried by MgSO. The solvent was removed under reduced pressure to give 2 bromo 5 fluoro phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol 1.1 g 90 purity as a crude product which was used for the next step without further purification.

2 Bromo 5 fluoro phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol 0.990 g 3.263 mmol 90 3 methyl pyrazole 0.476 g 4.895 mmol CuI 0.367 g 1.632 mmol KCO 1.334 g 8.158 mmol 1R 2R N N dimethyl cyclohexane 1 2 diamine 0.110 g 0.653 mmol and toluene 10 ml were combined in a 20 ml microwave vial which was then sealed and heated at 180 C. for 40 min. The mixture was filtered and washed with ethyl acetate. The filtrate was washed with water for 3 times and then silica gel was added to make a plug. The compound was purified by ISCO column chromatography using 5 10 ethyl acetate in hexane as solvent to get 1 5 fluoro 2 3 methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol 75 mg. H NMR 400 MHz CDCl 2.29 s 3H 4.90 m 1H 6.21 d 1H 7.07 7.11 m 1H 7.19 7.22 m 1H 7.29 7.32 m 1H 7.51 d 1H .

The above made alcohol 0.075 g 0.273 mmol was dissolved in anhydrous 1 4 dioxane 3 ml . Sodium hydride 0.013 g 0.328 mmol 60 in mineral oil was added all at once and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. 2 Amino 4 6 dichloro pyrimidine 0.045 g 0.273 mmol was added. The mixture was stirred at 80 C. for about 2 hours. The solvent was removed and the residue was suspended in ethyl acetate which was washed with water dried over MgSOand then concentrated to give the desired monochloride product 100 mg 0.249 mmol which was added to a 5 ml microwave vial containing 4 borono L phenylalanine 0.052 g 0.249 mmol NaCO 0.053 g 0.498 mmol acetonitrile 2 ml water 2 ml and dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium 5 mg 0.007 mmol . The vial was capped and stirred at 150 C. for 5 min under microwave radiation. The reaction mixture was cooled filtered through a syringe filter and then separated by reverse phase preparative HPLC using YMC Pack ODS 100 30 mm ID column MeOH HO TFA solvent system . The pure fractions were concentrated in vacuum. The product was then suspended in 5 ml of water frozen and lyophilized to give S 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 R 1 5 fluoro 2 3 methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid 37 mg as a trifluoro salt. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 2.29 s 3H 3.08 3.30 m 2H 4.19 q 1H 6.32 d 1H 6.82 s 1H 6.85 m 1H 7.26 m 1H 7.33 d 2H 7.42 m 2H 7.75 d 1H 7.87 d 2H .

The title compounds was prepared from R 1 5 chloro 2 3 methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol which was prepared using the same approach as described above for R 1 4 chloro 2 3 methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol. In particular R 1 5 chloro 2 3 methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol 0.959 g 3.318 mmol was dissolved in anhydrous 1 4 dioxane 8 ml . Sodium hydride 0.159 g 3.982 mmol 60 in mineral oil was added all at once and the mixture was stirred at room temperature for 30 minutes. 2 Amino 4 6 dichloro pyrimidine 0.544 g 3.318 mmol was added. The mixture was stirred at 80 C. for about 2 hours. The solvent was removed and the residue was suspended in ethyl acetate which was washed with water dried over MgSOand then concentrated to give the desired monochloride product 1.38 g which was used directly without further purification.

The monochloride 0.460 g 1.104 mmol made above was added to a 20 ml microwave vial which contained 4 borono L phenylalanine 0.277 g 1.325 mmol NaCO 0.234 g 2.208 mmol acetonitrile 8 ml water 8 ml and dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium 0.039 g 0.055 mmol . The vial was capped and the mixture stirred at 150 C. for 10 minutes under microwave radiation. The mixture was cooled filtered through a syringe filter and then separated by a reverse phase preparative HPLC using YMC Pack ODS 100 30 mm ID column MeOH HO TFA solvent system . The pure fractions were concentrated in vacuum. The product was then suspended in 5 ml of water frozen and lyophilized to give 580 mg of S 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 R 1 5 chloro 2 3 methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD 2.40 s 3H 3.29 3.46 m 2H 4.38 q 1H 6.45 d 1H 7.09 s 1H 7.24 m 1H 7.53 7.70 m 4H 7.82 s 1H 7.90 d 1H 7.97 d 2H .

4 2 Oxo pyrrolidine 1 yl benzaldehyde 500 mg 2.64 mmol in THF 20 ml was cooled to 0 C. and trifluoromethyl trimethyl silane 375 mg 2.64 mmol was added. Tetrabutylammonium fluoride 1M 0.1 ml was added dropwise and the mixture was allowed to warm to room temperature over 1 h and stirred further for over night at room termperature. After completion of the reaction 3N HCl 5 ml was added and the reaction mixture was stirred for 2 hr. The mixture was concentrated. Water 20 ml was added and the mixture was extracted by EtOAc 2 20 ml and washed with NaHCO 20 ml brine 20 ml and dried over sodium sulfate and concentrated to give 590 mg of desired product which was used in next step without further purification yield of 86 .

A solution of 4 6 dichloro pyrimidin 2 ylamine 700 mg 2.69 mmol NaH 194 mg 8.07 mmol 60 and 1 4 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 hydroxy ethyl phenyl pyrrolidine 2 one 441 mg 2.69 mmol in dry THF 10 ml was stirred at room temperature for overnight. After completion of the reaction THF was removed under reduced pressure. Water 10 ml was added while the mixture was cooled down to 0 C. The mixture was then extracted with dichloromethane 2 40 ml . The combined organic solution was dried over NaSO. Removal of solvent gave 498 mg of desired product with 92 purity which was used in next step without further purification yield of 498 mg 48 .

An Emrys process vial 20 ml for microwave was charged with 1 4 2 amino 6 chloro pyrimidin 4 yloxy 2 2 2 trifluoro ethyl phenyl pyrrolidine 2 one 200 mg 0.51 mmol 4 borono L phenylalanine 108 mg 0.51 mmol and 5 ml of acetonitrile. 5 ml of aqueous sodium carbonate 1M was added to above solution followed by 5 mol of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 160 C. for 7 min with microwave irradiation. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in 4 ml of methanol and purified with Prep LC to give 153 mg of product yield 58 . H NMR 400 MHz CDOD ppm 2.1 m 2H 2.5 t 2H 3.05 3.4 m 2H 3.85 t 2H 4.2 m 1H 6.6 m 1H 6.75 s 1H 7.3 d 2H 7.5 d 2H 7.6 d 2H 7.9 d 2H .

R 1 2 Bromo 5 fluoro phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol 4.0 g 14.65 mmol 3 methyl pyrazole 1.56 g 19.04 mmol CuI 0.557 g 2.93 mmol KCO 4.25 g 30.76 mmol 1R 2R N N dimethyl cyclohexane 1 2 diamine 0.416 g 2.93 mmol and toluene 15 ml were taken in 50 ml of sealed tube and the resulting mixture was heated at 130 C. oil bath temperature for 2 days. Mixture was diluted with ethyl acetate and washed with HO 4 30 ml brine and dried over sodium sulfate. Removal of solvent gave a crude product which was purified by ISCO column chromatography using 5 10 ethyl acetate in hexane as solvent to give 1.75 g of R 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 5 fluoro 2 3 methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl ethanol Yield 44 . H NMR 400 MHz CDCl ppm 2.35 s 3H 5.0 m 1H 6.3 s 1H 7.1 m 1H 7.20 s 1H 7.35 d 1H 7.50 s 1H .

A solution of 4 6 dichloro pyrimidin 2 ylamine 938 mg 5.72 mmol NaH 188 mg 1.5 eq. 8.17 mmol 60 and R 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 5 fluoro 2 3 methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl ethanol 1.5 g 1 eq. 5.45 mmol in dry THF 10 ml was stirred at room temperature at 50 C. overnight. After completion of the reaction THF was removed under reduced pressure. Water 10 ml was added to quench the reaction. The mixture was then extracted with dichloromethane 2 40 ml . The combined organic solution was dried over NaSO. Removal of solvent gave desired product with 92 purity which was used in next step without purification yield 85 .

An Emrys process vial 20 ml for microwave was charged with chloro 6 R 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 5 fluoro 2 3 methyl pyrazol 1 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 2 ylamine 2.18 g 5.45 mmol 4 borono L phenylalanine 1.13 g 5.45 mmol sodium carbonate 1 M 10.90 ml 2 eq. was added to above solution followed by 5 mol of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II 191 mg 0.27 mmol and 5 ml of acetonitrile and 5 ml HO. The reaction vessel was sealed and the mixture was heated at 160 C. for 10 minutes with microwave irradiation. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in HO 10 ml and extracted with ether. The ethereal layer was discarded. Then most of the water in the aqueous phase was removed in vacuo followed by addition of 10 ml of methanol. The crude product was purified with Prep HPLC to give 1.163 g yield 75 of product. H NMR 400 MHz CDOD ppm 2.4 s 3H 3.35 m 1H 3.5 m 1H 4.36 m 1H 6.4 s 1H 7.0 s 1H 7.1 m 1H 7.4 m 1H 7.55 m 4H 7.85 s 1H 8.0 d 2H .

Tetrabutylammonium fluoride TBAF 0.1 ml of 1M in THF was added to a solution of 4 6 methoxy pyridine 2 yl benzaldehyde 213 mg 1 mmol and trifluoromethyl trimethylsilane 0.2 ml 1.2 mmol in 10 ml THF at 0 C. The mixture was warmed up to room temperature and stirred for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was then treated with 12 ml of 1M HCl and stirred overnight. The product was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 20 ml . The organic layer was separated and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic solvent was evaporated to give 0.25g of 1 4 6 methoxy pyridine 2 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol which was directly used in next step without purification. yield 90 .

CsCO 375 mg 1 mmol was added to a solution of 1 4 6 methoxy pyridine 2 yl phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol 67 mg 0.2 mmol in 10 ml of anhydrous 1 4 dioxane. The mixture was stirred for 5 min then was added S 3 4 2 amino 6 chloro pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino propionic acid 78 mg 0.2 mmol and the mixture was heated at 110 C. overnight. After cooling 5 ml water was added and ethyl acetate 20 ml was used to extract the product. The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed by rotovap to give 112 mg S 3 4 2 Amino 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 4 6 methoxy pyridin 2 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino propionic acid yield 88 .

The above product 112 mg was added into 5 ml of 30 TFA DCM solution. Upon completion of the reaction the solvent was evaporated to give a crude product which was purified by preparative HPLC to give 5 mg of S 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 4 6 methoxy pyridin 2 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 300 MHz CDOD ppm 8.18 d J 8.4 Hz 2 H 7.94 d J 8.4 Hz 2 H 7.74 m 3H 7.60 d J 8.4 Hz 2 H 7.52 d J 7.2 Hz 1 H 7.08 s 1 H 6.86 m 1H 6.82 d J 8.1 Hz 1H 4.37 t 1 H 4.03 s 3 H 3.5 m 2 H .

TBAF 0.1 ml was added to a solution of 4 bromo 2 fluoro benzaldehyde 2.03 g 10 mmol and TMSCF 20 ml 12 mmol in 10 ml THF at 0 C. The formed mixture was warmed up to room temperature and stirred for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was then treated with 12 ml of 3M HCl and stirred overnight. The product was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 20 ml . The organic layer was separated and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic solvent was evaporated to give 2.4 g of 1 4 bromo 2 fluoro phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol yield 90 .

CsCO 8.45 g 26 mmol was added to the solution of 1 4 bromo 2 fluoro phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol 1.4 g 5.2 mmol in 10 ml of anhydrous 1 4 dioxane the mixture was stirred for 5 minutes then S 3 4 2 amino 6 chloro pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino propionic acid 2.0 g 5 mmol was added and the resulting mixture was heated at 110 C. overnight. After cooling 5 ml of water was added and ethyl acetate 20 ml was used to extract the product. The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed by rotovap to give 2.6 g of S 3 4 2 amino 6 1 4 bromo 2 fluoro phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidin 4 ylphenyl 2tertbutoxycarbonylamino propionic acid yield 82 .

A microwave vial 2 ml was charged with S 3 4 2 amino 6 1 4 bromo 2 fluoro phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino propionic acid 130 mg 0.2 mmol 3 methoxy 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyridine 70 mg 0.3 mmol 1 ml of acetonitrile and 0.7 ml of water. To this mixture was added 0.4 ml of aqueous sodium carbonate 1M followed by 14 mg 5 mol of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave irradiation. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness the residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol and purified with Prep HPLC to give 51 mg of S 3 4 2 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 fluoro 4 5 methoxy pyridin 3 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino propionic acid.

The above product 51 mg was dissolved in 5 ml of 30 TFA DCM solution. The mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. Removal of solvent gave a crude product which was purified by Prep HPLC to give 17 mg of S 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 fluoro 4 5 methoxy pyridin 3 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 300 MHz CDOD ppm 8.73 s 1 H 8.56 s 1 H 8.25 s 1H 7.94 d J 8.2 Hz 2 H 7.77 m 3H 7.55 d J 8.4 Hz 2 H 7.16 m 1H 7.00 s 1H 4.35 t 1 H 4.09 s 3 H 3.4 m 2 H .

CsCO 16.25 g 50 mmol was added to the solution of S 1 4 bromo phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethanol 2.55 g 11.0 mmol in 10 ml of anhydrous 1 4 dioxane and the mixture was stirred for 5 minutes after which S 3 4 2 amino 6 chloro pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino propionic acid 3.92 g 10 mmol was added. The resulting mixture was heated at 110 C. overnight. After cooling 5 ml of water was added and ethyl acetate 20 ml was used to extract the product. The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed by rotovap to give 5.2 g of S 3 4 2 amino 6 S 1 4 bromo phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidin 4 ylphenyl 2 tert butoxy carbonylamino propionic acid yield 82 .

A microwave vial 2 ml was charged with S 3 4 2 amino 6 S 1 4 bromo phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino propionic acid 139 mg 0.23 mmol 2 fluoropyridine 4 boronic acid 40 mg 0.27 mmol 1 ml of acetonitrile and 0.7 ml of water. To this mixture 0.4 ml of aqueous sodium carbonate 1M was added followed by 14 mg 5 mol of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave irradiation. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness and the residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol. The product was purified with Preparative HPLC to give 70 mg of S 3 4 2 amino 6 S 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 4 2 fluoro pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino propionic acid.

The above product 70 mg was dissolved in 5 ml 30 TFA in DCM. The reaction mixture was stirred at r.t. overnight. Removal of solvent gave crude product which was purified by preparative HPLC to give 52 mg of S 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 S 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 4 2 fluoro pyridin 4 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 300 MHz CDOD ppm 8.17 d J 5.7 Hz 1 H 7.85 d J 8.4 Hz 2 H 7.77 d J 6.9 Hz 2H 7.67 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 7.53 m 1 H 7.38 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.30 s 1H 6.76 m 2H 4.21 t 1 H 3.2 m 2 H .

A microwave vial 2 ml was charged with S 3 4 2 amino 6 S 1 4 bromo phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino propionic acid 139 mg 0.23 mmol 3 methoxy 5 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl pyridine 69 mg 0.27 mmol 1 ml of acetonitrile and 0.7 ml of water. To this mixture was added 0.4 ml of aqueous sodium carbonate 1M followed by 14 mg of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave irradiation. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness the residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol and purified by preparative HPLC to give 60 mg of S 3 4 2 amino 6 S 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 4 5 methoxy pyridin 3 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino propionic acid.

The above product 60 mg was dissolved in 5 ml of 30 TFA in DCM. The reaction mixture was stirred at room temperature overnight. Removal of solvent gave a crude product which was purified by preparative HPLC to give 48 mg of S 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 S 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 4 5 methoxy pyridin 3 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 300 MHz CDOD ppm 8.54 d J 1.5 Hz 1 H 8.37 d J 2.7 Hz 1 H 8.03 dd J 2.7 Hz 1.5 Hz 1H 7.84 d J 8.2 Hz 2 H 7.78 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.70 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.41 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 6.81 s 1H 6.75 m 1H 4.22 t 1H 3.95 t 3 H 3.25 m 2 H .

A microwave vial 2 ml was charged with S 3 4 2 amino 6 S 1 4 bromo phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino propionic acid 139 mg 0.23 mmol 4 trifluoromethylpyridine 3 boronic acid 61 mg 0.3 mmol 1 ml of acetonitrile and 0.7 ml of water. To this mixture was added 0.4 ml of aqueous sodium carbonate 1M followed by 14 mg of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave irradiation. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness the residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol and was purified by preparative HPLC to give 20 mg of S 3 4 2 amino 6 S 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 4 4 trifluoromethyl pyridin 3 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino propionic acid

The above product 20 mg was dissolved in 5 ml of 30 TFA in DCM. The reaction mixture was stirred at r.t. overnight. Removal of solvent gave crude product which purified by preparative HPLC to give 10 mg of S 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 S 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 4 4 trifluoromethyl pyridin 3 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 300 MHz CDOD ppm 8.72 d J 5.1 Hz 1 H 8.55 s 1 H 7.87 d J 8.2 2H 7.72 d J 5.0 Hz 1 H 7.63 d J 8.2 Hz 2H 7.36 m 4H 6.81 m 1H 6.70 s 1H 4.20 t 1 H 3.22 m 2 H .

A microwave vial 2 ml was charged with S 3 4 2 amino 6 S 1 4 bromo phenyl 2 2 2 trifluoro ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino propionic acid 139 mg 0.23 mmol 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl isoxazole 57.5 mg 0.3 mmol 1 ml of acetonitrile and 0.7 ml of water. To this mixture was added 0.4 ml of aqueous sodium carbonate 1M followed by 14 mg of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave irradiation. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness the residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol and was purified by preparative HPLC to give 20 mg of S 3 4 2 amino 6 S 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 4 isoxazol 4 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl 2 tert butoxycarbonylamino propionic acid.

The above product 20 mg was dissolved in 5 ml of 30 TFA in DCM. The mixture was stirred at r.t. overnight. Removal of solvent gave a crude product which was purified by preparative HPLC to give 10 mg of S 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 S 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 4 isoxazol 4 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 300 MHz CDOD ppm 9.03 s 1H 8.77 s 1H 7.84 m 2H 7.63 d J 8.2 1H 7.56 d J 8.4 Hz 1 H 7.50 m 1H 7.37 m 3H 6.70 m 2H 4.20 t 1 H 3.22 m 2H .

A microwave vial 20 ml was charged with 2 formylphenylboronic acid 290 mg 2.0 mmol 5 bromo pyrimidine 316 mg 2.0 mmol and 8 ml of acetonitrile. To this mixture was added 4 ml of aqueous sodium carbonate 1M followed by 100 mg of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated at 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave irradiation. After cooling the reaction mixture was extracted with ethylacetate. The organic layer was evaporated to provide a crude material which was purified by ISCO to give 220 mg of 2 pyrimidin 5 yl benzaldehyde.

Tetrabutylammonium fluoride TBAF 0.1 ml of 1M in THF was added to a solution of 2 pyrimidin 5 yl benzaldehyde 184 mg 1 mmol and trifluoromethyl trimethylsilane TMSCF 0.2 ml 1.2 mmol in 10 ml THF at 0 C. The mixture was warmed up to room temperature and stirred for 4 hours. The mixture was then treated with 3 ml of 1M HCl and stirred overnight. The product was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 20 ml . The organic layer was separated and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic solvent was evaporated to give 0.21 g of 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 pyrimidin 5 yl phenyl ethanol yield 84 which was directly used in next step without purification.

CsCO 325 mg 1.0 mmol was added to a solution of 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 pyrimidin 5 yl phenyl ethanol 72 mg 0.28 mmol in 10 ml of anhydrous THF. The mixture was stirred for 20 min 2 amino 4 6 dichloro pyrimidine 36.7 mg 0.22 mmol was added and then the reaction mixture was heated at 110 C. until the reaction was completed. After cooling to room temperature 5 ml of water was added and ethyl acetate 20 ml was used to extract the product. The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed by rotovap to give 76 mg of crude 4 chloro 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 pyrimidin 5 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 2 ylamine yield 92 .

A microwave vial 2 ml was charged with above crude intermediate 38 mg 0.1 mmol 4 borono L phenylalanine 31 mg 0.15 mmol 1 ml of acetonitrile and 0.7 ml of water. To this mixture was added 0.3 ml of aqueous sodium carbonate 1M followed by 4 mg 5 mol of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave irradiation. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness the residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol and then purified with preparative HPLC to give 10 mg of S 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 pyrimidin 5 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 300 MHz CDOD ppm 9.21 s 1 H 8.87 s 2 H 7.86 d J 8.4 2H 7.75 m 1 H 7.53 m 2H 7.37 d J 8.2 1H 7.33 m 1H 6.72 s 1H 6.58 m 1H 4.20 t 1H 3.22 m 2 H .

A microwave vial 20 ml was charged with 2 formylphenylboronic acid 290 mg 2.0 mmol 3 bromo thiophene 326 mg 2.0 mmol and 8 ml of acetonitrile. To this mixture was added 4 ml of aqueous sodium carbonate 1M followed by 50 mg of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated at 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave irradiation. After cooling the reaction mixture was extracted with ethylacetate. The organic layer was evaporated to provide a crude material which was purified by ISCO to give 211 mg of 2 thiophen 3 yl benzaldehyde.

Tetrabutylammonium fluoride TBAF 0.1 ml of 1M in THF was added to a solution of 2 thiophen 3 yl benzaldehyde 100 mg 0.53 mmol and trifluoromethyl trimethylsilane 0.1 ml 0.64 mmol in 10 ml THF at 0 C. The mixture was warmed up to room temperature and stirred for 4 hours. The mixture was then treated with 3 ml of 1M HCl and stirred overnight. The product was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 20 ml . The organic layer was separated and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic solvent was evaporated to give 0.12 g of 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 pyrimidin 5 yl phenyl ethanol which was directly used in next step without purification yield 89 .

CsCO 325 mg 1.0 mmol was added to a solution of 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 thiophen 3 yl phenyl ethanol 72 mg 0.28 mmol in 10 ml of anhydrous THF and the mixture was stirred for 20 minutes. 2 Amino 4 6 dichloro pyrimidine 36.7 mg 0.22 mmol was then added and the mixture was heated 110 C. until the reaction was complete. After cooling 5 ml of water was added and ethyl acetate 20 ml was used to extract the product. The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed by rotovap to give 67 mg of 4 chloro 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 pyrimidin 5 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 2 ylamine yield 78 .

A microwave vial 2 ml was charged with above crude material 40 mg 0.1 mmol 4 borono L phenylalanine 31 mg 0.15 mmol 1 ml of acetonitrile and 0.7 ml of water. To this mixture was added 0.3 ml of aqueous sodium carbonate 1M followed by 5 mol dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave iiradiation. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness. The residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol and then purified with preparative HPLC to afford 11.8 mg of S 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 thiophen 3 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 300 MHz CDOD ppm 7.84 d J 8.0 Hz 2H 7.66 d J 7.6 Hz 1 H 7.53 m 1H 7.40 m 5H 7.30 m 1H 7.17 m 1H 6.91 m 1H 6.82 s 1H 4.23 t 1 H 3.25 m 2H .

A microwave vial 20 ml was charged with 2 bromo benzaldehyde 208 mg 1.0 mmol 1 methyl 4 4 4 5 5 tetramethyl 1 3 2 dioxaborolan 2 yl 1H pyrazole 222 mg 1.2 mmol and 8 ml of acetonitrile. To this mixture was added 2.4 ml of aqueous sodium carbonate 1M followed by 50 mg of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated at 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave irradiation. After cooling the reaction mixture was extracted with ethylacetate. The organic layer was evaporated to provide crude material which was purified by ISCO to give 181 mg of 2 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl benzaldehyde 96 yield .

Tetrabutylammonium fluoride 0.1 ml of 1M in THF was added to a solution of 2 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl benzaldehyde 100 mg 0.53 mmol and trifluoromethyl trimethylsilane 0.12 ml 0.6 mmol in 10 ml THF at 0 C. The mixture was warmed up to room temperature and stirred for 4 hours. The mixture was then treated with 3 ml of 1M HCl and stirred overnight. The product was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 20 ml . The organic layer was separated and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic solvent was evaporated to give 0.12 g of 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl phenyl ethanol which was directly used in next step without purification yield 89 .

CsCO 325 mg 1.0 mmol was added to a solution of 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl phenyl ethanol 60 mg 0.2 mmol in 10 ml of anhydrous THF and the mixture was stirred for 20 minutes. 2 Amino 4 6 dichloro pyrimidine 32 mg 0.2 mmol was added and then the reaction mixture was heated at 110 C. until the reaction was complete. After cooling 5 ml of water was added and ethyl acetate 20 ml was used to extract the product. The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed by rotovap to afford 70 mg of 4 chloro 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 2 ylamine yield 92 .

A microwave vial 2 ml was charged with above crude material 38 mg 0.1 mmol 4 borono L phenylalanine 31 mg 0.15 mmol 1 ml of acetonitrile and 0.7 ml of water. To this mixture was added 0.3 ml of aqueous sodium carbonate 1M followed by 5 mol of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave irradiation. After cooling the mixture was evaporated to dryness the residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol and then purified by preparative HPLC to give 5.6 mg of S 2 amino 3 4 2 amino 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 1 methyl 1H pyrazol 4 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid.

A microwave vial 20 ml was charged with 2 formylphenylboronic acid 298 mg 2.0 mmol 3 bromo furan 350 mg 2.4 mmol and 8 ml of acetonitrile. To this mixture was added 4 ml of aqueous sodium carbonate 1M followed by 100 mg of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated at 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave irradiation. After cooling the reaction mixture was extracted with ethylacetate. The organic layer was evaporated to provide crude material which was purified by ISCO to give 110 mg of 2 furan 3 yl benzaldehyde 30 yield .

Tetrabutylammonium fluoride 0.1 ml of 1M in THF was added to a solution of 2 furan 3 yl benzaldehyde 110 mg 0.64 mmol and trifluoromethyl trimethylsilane 109 mg 0.78 mmol in 10 ml THF at 0 C. The mixture was warmed up to room temperature and stirred for 4 hours. The mixture was then treated with 3 ml of 1M HCl and stirred overnight. The product was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 20 ml . The organic layer was separated and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic solvent was evaporated to give 0.130 g of 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 furan 3 yl phenyl ethanol which was directly used in next step without purification yield 90 .

Sixty percent NaH 12 mg 0.3 mmol was added to a solution of 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 furan 3 yl phenyl ethanol 54 mg 0.2 mmol in 10 ml of anhydrous THF. The mixture was stirred for 20 minutes after which 4 6 dichloro pyrimidine 30 mg 0.2 mmol was added. The mixture was then heated at 70 C. until the reaction was complete. After cooling 5 ml of water was added to quench the reaction and ethyl acetate 20 ml was used to extract the product. The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed by rotovap to give of 67 mg 4 chloro 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 furan 3 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidine yield 94 .

A microwave vial 2 ml was charged with above crude material 38 mg 0.1 mmol 4 borono L phenylalanine 31 mg 0.15 mmol 1 ml of acetonitrile and 0.7 ml of water. To this mixture was added 0.3 ml of aqueous sodium carbonate 1M followed by 5 mol of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave irradiation. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness the residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol and then purified by preparative HPLC to afford 6 mg of S 2 amino 3 4 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 furan 3 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 300 MHz CDOD ppm 8.82 s 1 H 8.13 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.73 m 2H 7.46 m 6H 6.82 m 1 H 6.54 s 1H 4.20 t 1 H 3.22 m 2 H .

A microwave vial 20 ml was charged with 2 formylphenylboronic acid 298 mg 2.0 mmol 2 bromo furan 350 mg 2.4 mmol and 8 ml of acetonitrile. To this mixture was added 4 ml of aqueous sodium carbonate 1M followed by 100 mg of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated at 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave irradiation. After cooling the reaction mixture was extracted with ethylacetate. The organic layer was evaporated to provide a crude material which was purified by ISCO to give 123 mg of 2 furan 2 yl benzaldehyde 34 yield .

Tetrabutylammonium fluoride 0.1 ml of 1M in THF was added to a solution of 2 furan 2 yl benzaldehyde 123 mg 0.71 mmol and trifluoromethyl trimethylsilane 120 mg 0.86 mmol in 10 ml THF at 0 C. The mixture was warmed up to room temperature and stirred for 4 hours. The reaction mixture was then treated with 3 ml of 1M HCl and stirred overnight. The product was extracted with ethyl acetate 3 20 ml . The organic layer was separated and dried over sodium sulfate. The organic solvent was evaporated to give 0.150 g of 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 furan 3 yl phenyl ethanol which was directly used in next step without purification yield 90 .

Sixty percent NaH 12 mg 0.3 mmol was added to a solution of 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 furan 2 yl phenyl ethanol 55 mg 0.2 mmol in 10 ml of anhydrous THF. The mixture was stirred for 20 minutes after which 4 6 dichloro pyrimidine 29 mg 0.2 mmol was added. The mixture was then heated at 110 C. until the reaction was complete. After cooling 5 ml of water was added and ethyl acetate 20 ml was used to extract the product. The organic layer was dried over sodium sulfate. The solvent was removed by rotovap to give 60 mg of 4 chloro 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 furan 2 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidine yield 80 .

A microwave vial 2 ml was charged with the above crude material 60 mg 0.2 mmol 4 borono L phenylalanine 62 mg 0.3 mmol 1 ml of acetonitrile and 0.6 ml of water. To this mixture was added 0.4 ml of aqueous sodium carbonate 1M followed by 5 mol of dichlorobis triphenylphosphine palladium II . The reaction vessel was sealed and heated to 150 C. for 5 minutes with microwave irradiation. After cooling the reaction mixture was evaporated to dryness the residue was dissolved in 2.5 ml of methanol and purified by preparative HPLC to give 6 mg of S 2 amino 3 4 6 2 2 2 trifluoro 1 2 furan 2 yl phenyl ethoxy pyrimidin 4 yl phenyl propionic acid. H NMR 300 MHz CDOD ppm 8.66 s 1 H 8.11 d J 8.4 Hz 2H 7.77 m 2 H 7.54 m 6H 6.86 d J 3.3 Hz 1 H 6.66 m 1H 4.20 t 1 H 3.22 m 2 H .

Additional compounds prepared using methods known in the art and or described herein are listed below 

Human TPH1 TPH2 tyrosine hydroxylase TH and phenylalanine hydroxylase PH were all generated using genes having the following accession numbers respectively X52836 AY098914 X05290 and U49897.

The full length coding sequence of human TPH1 was cloned into the bacterial expression vector pET24 Novagen Madison Wis. USA . A single colony of BL21 DE3 cells harboring the expression vector was inoculated into 50 ml of L broth LB kanamycin media and grown up at 37 C. overnight with shaking Half of the culture 25 ml was then transferred into 3 L of media containing 1.5 yeast extract 2 Bacto Peptone 0.1 mM tryptophan 0.1 mM ferrous ammonium sulfate and 50 mM phosphate buffer pH 7.0 and grown to OD 6 at 37 C. with oxygen supplemented at 40 pH maintained at 7.0 and glucose added. Expression of TPH1 was induced with 15 D lactose over a period of 10 hours at 25 C. The cells were spun down and washed once with phosphate buffered saline PBS .

TPH1 was purified by affinity chromatography based on its binding to pterin. The cell pellet was resuspended in a lysis buffer 100 ml 20 g containing 50 mM Tris Cl pH 7.6 0.5 M NaCl 0.1 Tween 20 2 mM EDTA 5 mM DTT protease inhibitor mixture Roche Applied Science Indianapolis Ind. USA and 1 mM phenylmethanesulfonyl fluoride PMSF and the cells were lyzed with a microfluidizer. The lysate was centrifuged and the supernatant was loaded onto a pterin coupled sepharose 4B column that was equilibrated with a buffer containing 50 mM Tris pH 8.0 2 M NaCl 0.1 Tween 20 0.5 mM EDTA and 2 mM DTT. The column was washed with 50 ml of this buffer and TPH1 was eluded with a buffer containing 30 mM NaHCO pH 10.5 0.5 M NaCl 0.1 Tween 20 0.5 mM EDTA 2 mM DTT and 10 glycerol. Eluted enzyme was immediately neutralized with 200 mM KHPO pH 7.0 0.5 M NaCl 20 mM DTT 0.5 mM EDTA and 10 glycerol and stored at 80 C.

Human tryptophan hydroxylase type II TPH2 tyrosine hydroxylase TH and phenylalanine hydroxylase PAH were expressed and purified essentially in the same way except the cells were supplemented with tyrosine for TH and phenylalanine for PAH during growth.

TPH1 and TPH2 activities were measured in a reaction mixture containing 50 mM 4 morpholinepropanesulfonic acid MOPS pH 7.0 60 M tryptophan 100 mM ammonium sulfate 100 M ferrous ammonium sulfate 0.5 mM tris 2 carboxyethyl phosphine TCEP 0.3 mM 6 methyl tetrahydropterin 0.05 mg ml catalase and 0.9 mM DTT. The reactions were initiated by adding TPH1 to a final concentration of 7.5 nM. Initial velocity of the reactions was determined by following the change of fluorescence at 360 nm excitation wavelength 300 nm . TPH1 and TPH2 inhibition was determined by measuring their activities at various compound concentrations and the potency of a given compound was calculated using the equation 

Human TH and PAH activities were determined by measuring the amount of HO generated using L 3 4 H tyrosine and L 4 H phenylalanine respectively. The enzyme 100 nM was first incubated with its substrate at 0.1 mM for about 10 minutes and added to a reaction mixture containing 50 mM MOPS pH 7.2 100 mM ammonium sulfate 0.05 Tween 20 1.5 mM TCEP 100 M ferrous ammonium sulfate 0.1 mM tyrosine or phenylalanine 0.2 mM 6 methyl tetrahydropterin 0.05 mg ml of catalase and 2 mM DTT. The reactions were allowed to proceed for 10 15 minutes and stopped by the addition of 2 M HCl. The mixtures were then filtered through activated charcoal and the radioactivity in the filtrate was determined by scintillation counting. Activities of of compounds on TH and PAH were determined using this assay and calculated in the same way as on TPH1 and TPH2.

Two types of cell lines were used for screening RBL2H3 is a rat mastocytoma cell line which contains TPH1 and makes 5 hydroxytrypotamine 5HT spontaneously BON is a human carcinoid cell line which contains TPH1 and makes 5 hydroxytryptophan 5HTP . The CBAs were performed in 96 well plate format. The mobile phase used in HPLC contained 97 of 100 mM sodium acetate pH 3.5 and 3 acetonitrile. A Waters C18 column 4.6 50 mm was used with Waters HPLC model 2795 . A multi channel fluorometer model 2475 was used to monitor the flow through by setting at 280 nm as the excitation wavelength and 360 nm as the emission wavelength.

RBL CBA Cells were grown in complete media containing 5 bovine serum for 3 4 hours to allow cells to attach to plate wells 7K cell well . Compounds were then added to each well in the concentration range of 0.016 M to 11.36 M. The controls were cells in complete media without any compound present. Cells were harvested after 3 days of incubation at 37 C. Cells were 95 confluent without compound present. Media were removed from plate and cells were lysed with equal volume of 0.1 N NaOH. A large portion of the cell lysate was treated by mixing with equal volume of 1M TCA and then filtered through glass fiber. The filtrates were loaded on reverse phase HPLC for analyzing 5HT concentrations. A small portion of the cell lysate was also taken to measure protein concentration of the cells that reflects the cytotoxicity of the compounds at the concentration used. The protein concentration was measured by using BCA method.

The average of 5HT level in cells without compound treated was used as the maximum value in the ICderivation according to the equation provided above. The minimum value of 5HT is either set at 0 or from cells that treated with the highest concentration of compound if a compound is not cytotoxic at that concentration.

BON CBA Cells were grown in equal volume of DMEM and F12K with 5 bovine serum for 3 4 hours 20K cell well and compound was added at a concentration range of 0.07 M to 50 M. The cells were incubated at 37 C. overnight. Fifty M of the culture supernatant was then taken for 5HTP measurement. The supernatant was mixed with equal volume of 1M TCA then filtered through glass fiber. The filtrate was loaded on reverse phase HPLC for 5HTP concentration measurement. The cell viability was measured by treating the remaining cells with Promega Celltiter Glo Luminescent Cell Viability Assay. The compound potency was then calculated in the same way as in the RBL CBA.

The in vivo effects of compound were determined by formulating them to provide solutions which were then orally dosed. In general 14 week old male C57 albino mice were dosed once daily by oral gavage at 5 10 ml kg for four consecutive days. Five hours after the last dose the animals were quickly sacrificed. Each animal was anesthetized using isoflurane blood was drawn by cardiac stick method using 1 ml syringes and 25 needle 250 l blood was placed in capiject EDTA containing tubes which were kept on gentle rotating. The animal was then decapitated whole brain was taken and snap frozen jejunum ileum and colon were cleaned from fat and lumen content snap frozen. 5 HT was extracted from the blood or tissues and measured by high performance liquid chromatography HPLC equipped with an in line fluorescence detector. Blood samples were taken for exposure analysis. All animal studies were carried out with protocols approved by The Institutional Animal Care and Use Committee.

All of the publications e.g. patents and patent applications disclosed above are incorporated herein by reference in their entireties.

