---

title: Dynamic visualization of search results on a graphical user interface
abstract: Various embodiments of systems and methods for dynamic visualization of search results on a GUI are described herein. A search query received by a user is divided into a plurality of search parts. One or more search results for each of the plurality of search parts are retrieved. Further, a search result array is generated from the retrieved search results. Furthermore, Venn diagram graphical representation of the search results in the search result array is determined and the same is displayed on the GUI. The Venn diagram graphical representation defines display of search results in the Venn diagram and the relevancy ranking of the search results. In addition, the user can specify a weighting for each of the plurality of search parts, which dynamically determines display opacity of at least one of the associated search results and search part circles of the Venn diagram on the GUI.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08370331&OS=08370331&RS=08370331
owner: Business Objects Software Limited
number: 08370331
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20100702
---
Embodiments generally relate to computer systems and more particularly to methods and systems for providing a graphical user interface GUI for dynamic visualization of search results.

Generally when a user provides a search request to a search engine for retrieving relevant information the search engine returns an ordered list of search results. Currently each individual listing of the search results is represented by a fragment of text containing keywords as found. Also the listing may include a hyperlink to the search result allowing the user to locate the source or the location of the search result such as a web page.

However the number of search results in the listing can be overwhelming and it may be difficult for the user to select the desired search result. Also it may be a time consuming process to select each listed search result and to determine their relevancy. Often the search engine may list duplicates of the search result if the web page contains the search keyword at different locations. Further the search results can be filtered by conducting a new search for refined search query which also consumes time.

In particular the present practice of visual representation of search results on a GUI in a list of fragments of text containing the search keyword is inefficient. Also it may not simplify the task of selecting desired search results or help in filtering the search results. Therefore clarity and precision in displaying search results on the GUI while also making it easier for the user to select the desired search result would be desirable.

Various embodiments of systems and methods for dynamic visualization of search results on a GUI are described herein. A search query received by a user is divided into a plurality of search parts. One or more search results for each of the plurality of search parts are retrieved from a search engine based on a relevancy ranking of the search results. Further a search result array is generated from the retrieved search results by removing duplicates of the retrieved search results. Furthermore a Venn diagram graphical representation of the search results in the search result array is determined and the same is displayed on the GUI. The Venn diagram graphical representation defines display of the search results in the search result array and the relevancy ranking of the search results. In addition the user may specify a weighting for each of the plurality of search parts which dynamically determines display opacity of the associated search results on the GUI.

These and other benefits and features of embodiments of the invention will be apparent upon consideration of the following detailed description of preferred embodiments thereof presented in connection with the following drawings.

Embodiments of techniques for methods and systems for dynamic visualization of search results on a GUI are described herein. The search results may be relevant documents web pages and the like retrieved from a search engine for a search query. The search query refers to the information provided or inputted to the search engine to define the subject matter that a user is interested in searching. The user refers to an agent a human a computer or other mechanism capable of providing the search query and of receiving the search results. The search results are graphically represented on the GUI using a Venn diagram. The term circle or portion when used in conjunction with the Venn diagram includes any closed plane figure for identifying a category in the Venn diagram e.g. ellipse polygon irregular shape and the like .

A complex search query is exploded into simpler search parts and the relevant search results are retrieved from a search engine. The search results are presented to the user in an intuitive and meaningful way on the GUI using the Venn diagram as per relevancy ranking of the search results association of search results with the search parts and the like. Also the display of duplicates of the search results is excluded. In addition the user can specify his her relative interest in one or more search parts on the GUI and in response the display opacity of at least one of the associated search results and associated search part circles are changed dynamically. Therefore the visual representation of the search results on the GUI grasps a great deal of information at one time which makes it easier for the user to select the desired search result.

In the following description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials etc. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment this embodiment and similar phrases means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus the appearances of these phrases in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments.

At step a search result array is generated from the retrieved search results. The retrieved search results may include duplicates of one or more search results as the search result may be retrieved for the plurality of search parts. The process of generating the search result array includes removing one or more duplicate search results from the retrieved search results. In other words the duplicates of the search results as retrieved from the search engine are excluded.

At step a Venn diagram graphical representation of the search results in the search result array is determined. In one embodiment the Venn diagram graphical representation defines display of the search results in the search result array in a Venn diagram and size of icons and or text representing the search results in the search result array as per the relevancy ranking of the search results.

In an embodiment displaying the search results in the search result array in the Venn diagram includes displaying some of the search results in the search result array in a non overlapped portion of a corresponding search part in the Venn diagram and displaying the remaining search results in the search result array in an overlapped portion of a corresponding plurality of search parts in the Venn diagram through vector addition.

In an embodiment relevancy ranking of the search results in the search result array determines the size of the icons and or text representing the search results in the Venn diagram. The size of some of the icons and or text representing the search results in the search result array associated with a plurality of the search parts is computed as an average of individual relevancy rankings of individual search results as retrieved for the corresponding plurality of search parts.

At step the Venn diagram is displayed on the GUI based on the determination of the Venn diagram graphical representation of the search results in the search result array as described in step .

In one embodiment a weighting of user interest in each of the plurality of search parts can be specified by the user on the GUI and the specification is applied to the display opacity of at least one of the associated search results and associated search part circles on the GUI. The display opacity of some of the search results in the search result array associated with the plurality of the search parts is computed as an average of the weightings of the associated plurality of search parts.

In one embodiment the Venn diagram is used to display search results associated with the search query on the GUI . The Venn diagram includes a plurality of circles A to C associated with a plurality of search parts of the search query a plurality of non overlapped portions A to C of the plurality of circles A to C and a plurality of overlapped portions or intersection portions A to D of the plurality of circles A to C. In one embodiment each non overlapped portion A to C displays one or more search results in the search result array associated with a search part. Each overlapped portion A to D displays one or more search results in the search result array associated with a plurality of search parts.

In one embodiment a weighting indicative of a user s relative interest in the various parts of the plurality of search parts may be specified by the user through the weighting specification UI element on the GUI . The weighting specification UI element includes a plurality of weighting specification UI elements A to C associated with each of the plurality of search parts. The weighting of the plurality of search parts defines display opacity of at least one of the associated search results and associated search part circles on the GUI dynamically. Further the GUI is operable to display the search results in the search result array as per relevancy ranking of the search results wherein the relevancy ranking of the search results determines size of the determines the size of icons and or text representing the search results.

In one embodiment a search result array is generated from the retrieved search results wherein one or more duplicate search results from the retrieved search results are removed. For example the search results TODD and RAY are retrieved for the search parts PALO and ASSISTANT . The search result KENT is retrieved for the search parts ASSISTANT and SACRAMENTO . Similarly the search result LEE is retrieved for all the search parts PALO ASSISTANT and SACRMENTO . Therefore the retrieved one or more search results includes duplicates of the search results TODD RAY KENT and LEE and hence the duplicates of these search results are removed. In other words the search result array does not include duplicates of search results.

In one embodiment the search results in the search result array are displayed in a Venn diagram . The Venn diagram includes a plurality of circles A to C associated with a plurality of search parts. For example a circle A is associated with the search part PALO a circle B is associated with the search part ASSISTANT and a circle C is associated with the search part SACRAMENTO .

Further a plurality of non overlapped portions A to C of the plurality of circles A to C displays some of the search results in the search result array associated with a search part. For example the search results LINDA PAUL RUTH JOE DAVE MARK and BOB are displayed in a non overlapped portion A of the circle A which is associated with the search part PALO . The search result PARKER is displayed in a non overlapped portion B of the circle B which is associated with the search part ASSISTANT . The search results SMITH NICK JOHN CAROL LISA JEFF EMMA and MARY are displayed in a non overlapped portion C of the circle C which is associated with the search part SACRAMENTO .

Furthermore a plurality of overlapped portions A to D displays remaining search results in the search result array associated with a plurality of the search parts. For example the search results TODD and RAY which are retrieved for the search parts PALO and ASSISTANT are displayed in an associated overlapped portion B. The search result KENT which is retrieved for the search parts ASSISTANT and SACRAMENTO is displayed in an associated overlapped portion C. Since there are no common search results retrieved for the search parts PALO and SACRAMENTO overlapped portion A is empty. The search result LEE is retrieved for all three search parts PALO ASSISTANT and SACRAMENTO and hence LEE is displayed in an overlapped portion D which is associated with the search parts PALO ASSISTANT and SACRAMENTO . The display of the search results in the search result array in the Venn diagram is described in greater detail in .

In one embodiment the user may specify a weighting of the plurality of search parts through a weighting specification UI element on the GUI . The weighting specification UI element includes a plurality of weighting specification UI elements A to C with respect to the plurality of search parts. The user can specify weightings of search parts PALO ASSISTANT and SACRAMENTO through the weighting specification UI elements A to C respectively. The determination of the display opacity of at least one of the search results and associated search part circles on the GUI according to the weighting of the plurality of search parts is described in greater detail in .

In an embodiment the Venn diagram graphical representation defines the relevancy ranking of the search results in the search result array. The relevancy ranking of the search results in the search result array determines size of icons and or text representing the search results on the Venn diagram . The size of the icons and or text representing the search results is the composition of the relevancy ranking of the search results. For example the size of the search result LINDA is larger than the search result PAUL as the relevancy ranking of LINDA is greater than PAUL . Similarly the size of the icons and or text representing the search results in the search result array associated with a search part can be determined. Further the size of the icons and or text representing the search results associated with the plurality of search parts is computed as an average of the relevancy ranking of the individual search results retrieved from the associated plurality of search parts. For example the size of the icons and or text representing the search results TODD and RAY is the average of the relevancy ranking as obtained for the search parts PALO and ASSISTANT . Similarly the size of the icons and or text representing the search results KENT and LEE which are associated with the plurality of search parts is computed. In addition a close option is provided to close the application.

In an exemplary embodiment the remaining search results in the search result array associated with a plurality of search parts are displayed through a composition of the vectors of the search parts in an overlapped portion of associated search parts in the Venn diagram . Vector V is the distance from the center of the Venn diagram to the center of the circle A associated with the search part PALO . Vector V is the distance from the center of the Venn diagram to the center of the circle B associated with the search part ASSISTANT . Vector V is the distance from the center of the Venn diagram to the center of the circle C associated with the search part SACRAMENTO . The search results TODD and RAY associated with the search parts PALO and ASSISTANT are displayed at a resultant of the vectors V and the V . Since vector resultant for both the search results TODD and RAY are at the same point the search results TODD and RAY are displayed around the vector resultant and within the associated overlapped portion B. Similarly the search result KENT is displayed at a resultant of the vectors V and V .

In one embodiment the display opacity of the search results on the GUI is computed as an average of the weightings of the associated plurality of search parts. For example the display opacity of search results TODD and RAY which are associated with the search parts PALO and ASSISTANT is dynamically set to 55 i.e. the average of the weightings of PALO and ASSISTANT as illustrated by reference . Similarly references and illustrate display opacity of search results KENT and LEE respectively.

Some embodiments of the invention may include the above described methods being written as one or more software components. These components and the functionality associated with each may be used by client server distributed or peer computer systems. These components may be written in a computer language corresponding to one or more programming languages such as functional declarative procedural object oriented lower level languages and the like. They may be linked to other components via various application programming interfaces and then compiled into one complete application for a server or a client. Alternatively the components may be implemented in server and client applications. Further these components may be linked together via various distributed programming protocols. Some example embodiments of the invention may include remote procedure calls being used to implement one or more of these components across a distributed programming environment. For example a logic level may reside on a first computer system that is remotely located from a second computer system containing an interface level e.g. a graphical user interface . These first and second computer systems can be configured in a server client peer to peer or some other configuration. The clients can vary in complexity from mobile and handheld devices to thin clients and on to thick clients or even other servers.

The above illustrated software components are tangibly stored on a computer readable storage medium as instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include a single medium or multiple media that stores one or more sets of instructions. The term computer readable storage medium should be taken to include any physical article that is capable of undergoing a set of physical changes to physically store encode or otherwise carry a set of instructions for execution by a computer system which causes the computer system to perform any of the methods or process steps described represented or illustrated herein. Examples of computer readable storage media include but are not limited to magnetic media such as hard disks floppy disks and magnetic tape optical media such as CD ROMs DVDs and holographic devices magneto optical media and hardware devices that are specially configured to store and execute such as application specific integrated circuits ASICs programmable logic devices PLDs and ROM and RAM devices. Examples of computer readable instructions include machine code such as produced by a compiler and files containing higher level code that are executed by a computer using an interpreter. For example an embodiment of the invention may be implemented using Java C or other object oriented programming language and development tools. Another embodiment of the invention may be implemented in hard wired circuitry in place of or in combination with machine readable software instructions.

A data source is an information resource. Data sources include sources of data that enable data storage and retrieval. Data sources may include databases such as relational transactional hierarchical multi dimensional e.g. OLAP object oriented databases and the like. Further data sources include tabular data e.g. spreadsheets delimited text files data tagged with a markup language e.g. XML data transactional data unstructured data e.g. text files screen scrapings hierarchical data e.g. data in a file system XML data files a plurality of reports and any other data source accessible through an established protocol such as Open Data Base Connectivity ODBC produced by an underlying software system e.g. ERP system and the like. Data sources may also include a data source where the data is not tangibly stored or otherwise ephemeral such as data streams broadcast data and the like. These data sources can include associated data foundations semantic layers management systems security systems and so on.

In the above description numerous specific details are set forth to provide a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components techniques etc. In other instances well known operations or structures are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

Although the processes illustrated and described herein include series of steps it will be appreciated that the different embodiments of the present invention are not limited by the illustrated ordering of steps as some steps may occur in different orders some concurrently with other steps apart from that shown and described herein. In addition not all illustrated steps may be required to implement a methodology in accordance with the present invention. Moreover it will be appreciated that the processes may be implemented in association with the apparatus and systems illustrated and described herein as well as in association with other systems not illustrated.

The above descriptions and illustrations of embodiments of the invention including what is described in the Abstract is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. While specific embodiments of and examples for the invention are described herein for illustrative purposes various equivalent modifications are possible within the scope of the invention as those skilled in the relevant art will recognize. These modifications can be made to the invention in light of the above detailed description. Rather the scope of the invention is to be determined by the following claims which are to be interpreted in accordance with established doctrines of claim construction.

