---

title: Directional acoustic density sensor
abstract: The invention as disclosed is a fiber optic interferometric directional acoustic density sensor that increases the directionality of a vector sensor that is much smaller in size than the wave length of an acoustic wave. This is accomplished through the use of second order directionality by measuring the acoustic fluctuations of fluid density at a point, wherein the acoustic density fluctuations are determined according to the principles of fluid compressibility and conservation of mass using a density fluctuation measuring apparatus that restricts two of the three vector components of the particle velocity of the acoustic wave and that employs a laser interferometer to measure the fluid density fluctuation along the remaining vector component.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08134887&OS=08134887&RS=08134887
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08134887
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100913
---
The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

The present invention is directed to acoustic vector sensors. In particular the present invention is directed to increasing the directionality of a sensor having a size much less than the wave length of an acoustic wave by measuring the acoustic fluctuations of fluid density at a point.

Conventional vector sensors measure particle velocity v v v v associated with an acoustic wave. The measurements of a vector quantity velocity instead of a scalar quantity pressure allows for directional sensing even if the size of the vector sensor is much smaller than the size of the wavelength of the acoustic wave. The directionality pattern of a vector sensor is proportional to cos where is the directional angle of the vector sensor. Vector sensor directionality is equivalent to the dipole type or first order sensor that is realized by measuring particle velocity at a point which is the vector sensor sensing approach for underwater sensors or by measuring the gradient of the acoustic pressure at two closely spaced less than the wavelength of an acoustic wave points as it is commonly done in air acoustics where this type of sensor is called an acoustic intensity probe. The two approaches of obtaining vector sensor directionality as described above are in fact mathematically equivalent according to a linearized equation of momentum conservation as expressed in Eq. 1 below 

There continues to be a need to increase the directionality of a vector sensor. One approach to further increase the directionality of a vector sensor while still maintaining a sensor size that is much smaller than the wavelength of an acoustic wave is to utilize a second order or quadruple type sensor arrangement measuring the diversion of the velocity div v. This can be accomplished by measuring the components of the velocity v v v v at closely spaced points at least two points along the corresponding axis yielding the directionality which is proportional to cos . The benefit of the increased directionality however when measured using this approach comes at a cost of the number of vector sensors necessary and at a cost of a reduction in sensitivity. Two vector sensors for each axis a minimum of six sensors are required to measure the diversion of the velocity and there is a significant reduction in sensor sensitivity proportional to kd

A more advantageous means to achieve a second order directionality is to measure the acoustic fluctuations of fluid density at a point rather than directly measuring the diversion of the velocity.

It is a general purpose and object of the present invention to increase the directionality of a vector sensor having a size much less than the wave length of an acoustic wave.

The above object is accomplished with the present invention through the use of second order directionality by measuring the acoustic fluctuations of fluid density at a point wherein the acoustic density fluctuations are determined according to the principles of fluid compressibility and conservation of mass using a density fluctuation measuring apparatus that restricts two of the three vector components of the particle velocity of the acoustic wave and that employs a laser interferometer to measure the fluid density fluctuation along the remaining vector component.

Acoustic density fluctuations are determined by fluid compressibility and conservation of mass and are respectively described by the following two linearized equations 

where is the density disturbance due to an acoustic wave and B is the fluid bulk modulus. Equation 4 above provides the basis for a second order vector sensor utilizing density acoustic fluctuation measurements provided that the measured fluctuations are only associated with one component of

In the measuring cell illustrated in the fluid flow is restricted in y and z directions while fluid flow is permitted along the x axis. Correspondingly in terms of the fluid flow within this cell 

In order to achieve a desirable second order directionality while preserving the high sensitivity of the measurements the directly measured density fluctuation is determined by only the second term in Eq. 8 

An example of the optical interferometer apparatus of the present invention is illustrated in the . In a preferred embodiment there is a measuring cell the measuring cell is rectangular as previously illustrated in with acoustically rigid walls i.e. the walls do not move or flex in any way due to the incident acoustic wave . Measuring cell is filled with water or another fluid medium. In an alternative embodiment the measuring cell has a circular cross section. Inside of measuring cell there are two laser beams a and b that originate from the same coherent optical light source . The light from light source is split with beam splitter into two perpendicular beams beam a is along the cell axis x measuring beam and beam b perpendicular to the axis x reference beam . The in fluid lengths of both beams are equal. Both beams are collected into one end of separate optical fiber cables with beam to fiber couplers at the ends of the cables that collect the beams. The optical fiber cables are connected at their other end to a mixing cell that is equipped with a photodiode . The two laser beams a and b are mixed in a mixing cell . The lengths of fibers are tuned to create constructive or destructive interference inside the mixing cell . The mixing cell is joined to a data acquisition and digital processing unit that is programmable. Because the light index of refraction n is highly sensitive to the density fluctuations of the medium any difference in density fluctuations along beam a as opposed to beam b can be detected by the data acquisition and digital processing unit with high precision.

If the incident acoustic wave travels perpendicular to axis x that is cos 0 the density change along both beams a and b will be the same and determined only by the first scalar term of Eq. 8 . Consequently there is no difference in the density fluctuations along the beams. This results in zero output of the interferometer. The maximum difference will be achieved if the acoustic wave travels along axis x that is cos 1. In this scenario the density change along beam a will be twice as high as along beam b. For an arbitrary direction of the incident acoustic wave the change in density will be proportional to the second term in Eq. 8 .

The interferometer apparatus will measure phase difference between the reference beam b and measuring beam a 2 9 where is the light wavelength in the fluid L is the length of the either beam in the fluid Cis the speed of light in the fluid along beam b C C Cis the difference in speeds of lights along beams a and b determined by the difference in the refraction indexes nand n along the respective beams 10 The density dependence of the refraction index for light in water is determined by the following formula assuming 

Expressions 9 and 15 can be used to evaluate the sensitivity of a second order vector sensor of the present invention according to the following equation 

The advantage of the present invention is that it is immune to non acoustic density variations due to temperature and hydrostatic pressure fluctuations as both laser beams a and b are equally exposed to these variations.

While it is apparent that the illustrative embodiments of the invention disclosed herein fulfill the objectives of the present invention it is appreciated that numerous modifications and other embodiments may be devised by those skilled in the art. Additionally feature s and or element s from any embodiment may be used singly or in combination with other embodiment s . Therefore it will be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and embodiments which would come within the spirit and scope of the present invention.

