---

title: Capacitance probe for detection of anomalies in non-metallic plastic pipe
abstract: The disclosure relates to analysis of materials using a capacitive sensor to detect anomalies through comparison of measured capacitances. The capacitive sensor is used in conjunction with a capacitance measurement device, a location device, and a processor in order to generate a capacitance versus location output which may be inspected for the detection and localization of anomalies within the material under test. The components may be carried as payload on an inspection vehicle which may traverse through a pipe interior, allowing evaluation of nonmetallic or plastic pipes when the piping exterior is not accessible. In an embodiment, supporting components are solid-state devices powered by a low voltage on-board power supply, providing for use in environments where voltage levels may be restricted.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07839282&OS=07839282&RS=07839282
owner: The United States of America as represented by the United States Department of Energy
number: 07839282
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100728
---
This patent application is a continuation in part of and claims priority from provisional patent application 60 882 027 filed Dec. 27 2006 and non provisional patent application Ser. No. 11 964 505 filed Dec. 26 2007 which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The United States Government has rights in this invention pursuant to the employer employee relationship of the Government to the inventors as U.S. Department of Energy employees and site support contractors at the National Energy Technology Laboratory.

The disclosure relates to analysis of materials and specifically to the nondestructive testing of materials by electronic means.

Since the 1970 s a large portion of gas distribution lines have been fabricated from polyethylene PE . Also as of 1995 about one third of the 1.5 million miles of gas distribution pipelines in this country was made from PE. A special investigative report issued by the NTSB indicates that hundreds of thousands of miles of plastic pipe installed from the 1960 s through the early 1980 s may be vulnerable to a phenomenon called brittle like cracking . Brittle like failures as a national average may represent the second most frequent failure mode for older plastic piping exceeded only by excavation damage.

Brittle like cracking is characterized by the appearance of cracks through the wall of pipe with no visible deformations. This type of failure was not considered during testing in the early years of plastic pipe use Only hoop stress was considered. When hoop stress was applied to pipe during laboratory testing the usual failure mode was a ductile fracture characterized by significant deformation. The long term hydrostatic strength of polyethylene pipe used for natural gas service was determined by subjecting pipe samples to various hoop stresses and noting the time to failure. A log log plot of time vs hoop stress was created and then extrapolated to 100 000 hours.

The hoop stress at this point represented the hydrodynamic strength. Only internal pressures were used as design criteria for plastic pipe external loadings that could cause additional stresses were not considered. It was believed that these stresses would be relieved by local yielding because of the expected ductile behavior of the plastic pipes. After the middle of the 1980 s standards were changed and the phenomenon of brittle like cracking was accounted for. Polyethylene pipe used in new services probably will not exhibit brittle like cracking but hundreds of thousands of miles of existing pipe may.

A number of techniques exist in literature to determine the integrity of metallic pipelines for gas distribution and gas transmission such as ultrasonic eddy current and acoustic wave to name a few. However no satisfactory technique exists in literature that determines the flaws and defects in non metallic or plastic pipeline. In particular no satisfactory techniques exists for the inspection of non metallic or plastic pipeline in situ when significant access constraints and inspection environment concerns may significant logistical hurdles.

To overcome these problems a suitable sensing device must be able to reliably and dependably detect flaws or abnormalities in plastic and non metallic pipe.

Herein we describe a device and method based on capacitance measurements that can detect flaws in already buried plastic gas distribution pipelines. A probe has been designed that can be inserted into the natural gas pipelines to examine the spatial dielectric characteristics of the pipe walls. The probe employs a sensor that measures the capacitance or permittivity of the pipeline wall. Defects are indicated by variations in the permittivity of the non metallic or plastic material.

The apparatus disclosed includes a capacitive sensor comprised of a driven electrode a guard electrode and a ground electrode. The capacitive sensor is arranged such that an electric field extends from the driven electrode to the ground electrode when a voltage is applied across the electrodes. The guard electrode is juxtaposed between the driven electrode and the ground electrode. The capacitive sensor is placed in close proximity to a non metallic or plastic dielectric material such as a piping wall and the capacitance of the dielectric material is monitored within an area and compared to the capacitance of the dielectric in surrounding areas. Anomalies in the capacitance indicate anomalies in the dielectric material. The capacitive sensor is constructed such that the driven electrode the guard electrode and the ground electrode are located on the same side of the dielectric material so that an applied voltage creates a fringing field and measurements can be made with access to only the inside surface of a non metallic or plastic pipeline.

The apparatus further includes a capacitance measurement device power supply a location device and a processor. The processor is in data communication with the capacitance measurement device. The processor receives and correlates capacitance and location data and may provide a direct reading correlation or record the correlation for later viewing.

In operation the capacitive sensor is placed in close proximity to a dielectric material such as a non metallic or plastic pipe wall and the capacitance measurement device energizes the driven electrode and the guard electrode such that a fringing electric field extends between the driven electrode and the ground electrode through a measuring volume of the dielectric material. The capacitance measurement device determines a capacitance between the driven electrode and the ground electrode based on an evaluation of the RC time constant in the RC circuit formed by the capacitance measurement device the driven electrode and the ground electrode. The processor receives and correlates the capacitance signal and the location signal. The capacitance sensor is positioned at a second location and a second capacitance measurement and location are correlated. The process may be repeated for any number of measurement points. Anomalies in the capacitance measurement as compared to the capacitances indicated in neighboring areas indicates an anomaly in the dielectric material at the measurement location.

In an embodiment the capacitive sensor the power supply the location measurement device and the processor are mounted on an inspection vehicle designed to travel through the interior of a piping length so that inspection may be conducted on piping sections where the outside of the pipe is inaccessible. The processor may monitor the location signal from the location device as the inspection vehicle traverses the piping length and receive a capacitance signal from the capacitance measurement device when a predetermined displacement has occurred since the previous measurement point. In an embodiment a plurality of capacitive sensors may be mounted on the inspection vehicle so that a greater circumferential percentage of the piping length may be inspected with a single pass of the inspection vehicle. The processor may provide direct reading of capacitance and location or may store the correlations for observation following the pass of the inspection vehicle through the piping length.

In an embodiment the capacitance measurement device the processor and the location device may be comprised of solid state devices receiving power from an on board battery such as a 9 volt alkaline or nickel metal hydride battery. Determination of capacitance based on RC time constant evaluation using integrated components allows operation at reduced voltage levels.

The following description is provided to enable any person skilled in the art to use the invention and sets forth the best mode contemplated by the inventor for carrying out the invention. Various modifications however will remain readily apparent to those skilled in the art since the principles of the present invention are defined herein specifically to provide an apparatus and method for the detection of anomalies in non metallic and plastic pipelines.

The apparatus disclosed includes a capacitive sensor comprised of a driven electrode a guard electrode and a ground electrode arranged such that an electric field extends from the driven electrode to the ground electrode when a voltage is applied across the electrodes. The guard electrode is juxtaposed between the driven electrode and the ground electrode. The capacitive sensor is placed in close proximity to a non metallic or plastic dielectric material such as a piping wall and the capacitance of the dielectric material is monitored within a measuring volume and compared to the capacitance of the dielectric in surrounding volumes. Anomalies in the capacitance indicate anomalies in the dielectric material. The capacitive sensor is constructed such that the driven electrode the guard electrode and the ground electrode are located on the same side of the dielectric material so that an applied voltage creates a fringing field and measurements can be made with access to only the inside surface of a non metallic or plastic pipeline.

The apparatus further includes a capacitance measurement device electrically connected to the driven electrode and the ground electrode. The capacitance measurement device forms an RC circuit having an RC time constant with the driven electrode and the ground electrode and determines a capacitance between the driven electrode and the ground electrode based on evaluation of the RC time constant. The capacitance measurement device is further electrically connected to a shield driver which supplies a voltage to the guard electrode that mimics the voltage of the driven electrode. The shield driver may be a component separate from the capacitance measurement device or may be an inherent feature built in to the capacitance measurement device. Further the capacitance measurement device is capable of providing a capacitance signal where the capacitance signal is representative of the capacitance determined through evaluation of the RC time constant. The apparatus further includes a power supply electrically connected to the capacitance measurement device. In an embodiment the capacitance measurement device is a capacitance to digital converter and the power supply is a nickel metal hydride battery.

The apparatus further includes a location measurement device for determining the location of the capacitive sensor with respect to a fixed point of reference. The location measurement device is maintained at a fixed position relative to the capacitive sensor so that sensed movement of the location measurement device reflects corresponding movement of the capacitive sensor. Further the location measurement device is capable of providing a location signal. In an embodiment the location measurement device is an optical mouse encoder.

The apparatus further includes a processor in data communication with at least the capacitance measurement device and the location measurement device. The processor correlates the capacitance signal and the location signal and may provide a direct reading correlation or record the correlation for later viewing. In an embodiment the processor is a microcontroller having an integrated circuit programmed to receive and correlate the capacitance signal and the location signal. In an embodiment the processor accumulates received location data and directs the capacitance measurement device to determine a capacitance based on predetermined location data values.

In operation the capacitive sensor is placed in close proximity to a dielectric material such as a non metallic or plastic pipe wall with the driven electrode the guard electrode and the ground electrode at a ground voltage and the capacitance measurement device energizes the driven electrode and guard electrode establishing a fringing electric field which at least partially extends through a measuring volume of the dielectric material. The capacitance measurement device determines a capacitance between the driven electrode and the ground electrode based on an evaluation of the RC time constant in the circuit formed by the capacitance measurement device the driven electrode and the ground electrode. The location measurement device determines the location of the capacitive sensor with respect to a fixed point of reference. The processor receives and correlates the capacitance signal and the location signal. The capacitance sensor is positioned at a second location and a second capacitance measurement and location are correlated. The process may be repeated for any number of measurement points. Anomalies in the capacitance measured as compared to the capacitances indicated in neighboring areas indicates an anomaly in the dielectric material at the measurement location.

In an embodiment the capacitive sensor the power supply the location measurement device and the processor are mounted on an inspection vehicle designed to travel through the interior of a piping length so that inspection may be conducted on piping sections where the outside of the pipe is inaccessible. The inspection vehicle may traverse the piping length such that the capacitive sensor takes a plurality of capacitive measurements on the inner piping surface. The processor may monitor the location signal from the location device and receive a capacitance signal from the capacitance measurement device when the location signals received indicate a predetermined displacement has occurred since the previous measurement point. The processor correlates the capacitance measurement with the location signal so that comparison of the measured capacitance with the surrounding material may be conducted. In an embodiment a plurality of capacitive sensors may be mounted on the inspection vehicle so that each capacitive sensor determines a capacitance at a separate circumferential location inside the piping when the inspection vehicle achieves a given location so that inspection of the piping length along multiple lines substantially parallel to the axial dimension may be conducted with a single pass of the inspection vehicle through the piping length. The processor may provide direct reading of capacitance and location or may store the correlations for observation following the pass of the inspection vehicle through the piping length.

Capacitance is the ability of a body to hold an electrical charge. As shown in the capacitance C between two plates is a ratio between charge Q accumulated on the plates and the associated potential drop V . If the distance between the plates of a parallel plate capacitor is d the electric field intensity E is given by the ratio V d and by Gauss law E Q A where A is the area of overlap of the two plates and e is the permittivity of the material between the plates. As is known in the art for a parallel plate capacitor such that shown at capacitance is directly proportional to the surface area A of the conductor plates and inversely proportional to the separation distance between the plates. If the charges on the plates are Q and Q and fringing field effects are ignored then the capacitance C is given by C Q V kA d where k is the dielectric constant of the material between the plates and is the permittivity of free space.

When a capacitor with a dielectric material between the plates such as that shown at is in a circuit with a resistivity R and a DC source of voltage V and the capacitor is initially uncharged when the voltage Vis applied to the circuit a time dependent voltage v t across the capacitor may be determined by v t V 1 e as is known in the art. Knowledge of v t at a time t and knowledge of circuit resistivity R allows determination of the capacitance C. Further if comparison of the capacitance of two different dielectric materials between the plates is desired then simple comparison of the v t at the time t after the voltage Vis applied could be sufficient to indicate a similarity or dissimilarity between the two dielectric materials in terms of their respective capacitances.

When the plates are arranged in a coplanar arrangement such as is shown in the electric field extends from one plate through the material in question to the other plate. This changes the operation of the capacitor into one with only a fringing field. For equal sized electrodes the electric field follows a circular arc and the minimum penetration distance of the electric field ris equal to half the distance between the inner edges of the two electrodes indicated as b. The maximum penetration ris half the distance between the outer edges of the electrodes indicated as c. This arrangement is used in common products such as stud finders but is inadequate for detection of defects within the walls of plastic pipes. Stray capacitances caused by wires in the electric circuit and other nearby conductive surfaces contribute noise above the required precision to detect abnormalities in a plastic pipe.

The problem of stray capacitance may be mitigated with a guard electrode. illustrates a capacitive sensor comprised of driven electrode ground electrode and guard electrode . In the embodiment illustrated driven electrode is a disc of radius a ground electrode is a disc of radius c and guard electrode is a disc of radius b. The guard electrode is placed between the driven electrode and the ground electrode . The guard electrode is driven by a separate circuit not shown which mimics the voltage of the driven electrode . Non electrically conducting insulating layers may be placed between each electrode. The guard electrode is equal to or larger in diameter than the driven electrode and acts to shield driven electrode from stray capacitances.

When driven electrode and guard electrode are energized with a voltage signal a fringing electric field exists between driven electrode and ground electrode . The fringing electric field is maximized by guard electrode which by mimicking the voltage signal applied to driven electrode mitigates the non fringing field which would otherwise result between driven electrode and ground electrode .

In the embodiment shown at the penetration depth of the probe can be calculated by examining the path of the electric field lines emanating from the edges of the electrodes. Using the complex solution the field lines are circular arcs where r c a 2c and r b a 2b. Rotating the circular arcs about the centerline creates a volume that is bounded by two semi toroidal surfaces representing the measuring volume in cubic centimeters where R 0.5c and R a 0.5 b a . The total capacitance between the ground and driven electrodes can be derived from the complex potential field of a two dimensional conformal mapping solution as 2 ln where is the permittivity of the material through which the electric field passes and N is the geometric probe constant.

The selection of the proper geometry for a capacitive sensor such as that shown at is dependent upon the application. Maximum and minimum penetration depth must be considered as well as the ability to detect changes in permittivity within the measuring volume as a function of capacitance.

When a capacitive sensor such as that shown at is placed in close proximity to a dielectric material such as a non metallic or plastic pipe and if driven electrode guard electrode and ground electrode are at ground voltage and a DC voltage signal greater than the ground voltage is applied for some period of time to driven electrode and guard electrode the resulting electric field between driven electrode and ground electrode will pass through the dielectric material and the capacitance of the dielectric material may be determined by a capacitance measurement device.

The capacitance of a given dielectric material is expected to be substantially constant for a completely homogenous material. As a result anomalies in the material may be localized by determining the capacitance using a capacitive sensor such as that illustrated at at various locations in close proximity to the material. Because the capacitive sensor at can only determine the capacitance of the material within the volume of the electric field between driven electrode and ground electrode anomalies may be detected by employing the capacitive sensor at a plurality of locations in close proximity to the material surface. At each location where capacitance measurement occurs the material within the volume of the electric field is evaluated for homogeneity. A change in the capacitance determined at a location as compared to values determined at other locations may then be utilized to indicate an anomaly in the material within the volume of the electric field at that location. This is illustrated at .

As is indicated at the ability of the capacitive sensor to detect anomalies such as anomaly depends on the maximum and minimum penetration depths of the electric field and the resultant measuring volume. The maximum and minimum penetration depths and the resultant measuring volume may be determined from the dimensions of the driven electrode the guard electrode and the ground electrode of the capacitive sensor as is known in the art. The selection of the proper geometry is dependent on the application. Additionally the capacitive sensor must have sufficient proximity to the dielectric material under inspection so that the resultant measuring volume encounters the locations where anomalies are expected. Within this disclosure when the capacitive sensor is placed in close proximity to the material under inspection such as material this is meant to indicate that the electric field within the resultant measuring volume passes through the material at least to some degree. Thus within the disclosure close proximity may indicate a situation where direct physical contact between the capacitive sensor and the material exists or a situation where contact between the capacitive sensor and the material is not established but where the capacitive sensor is sufficiently close such that electric field within the resultant measuring volume passes through the material at least to some degree. When capacitance is determined at a plurality of locations such as indicated at then the close proximity between the capacitive sensor and the material under evaluation should be substantially constant so that the electric field passes through the material to a similar extent at each location and such that the capacitances to be compared reflect a similar interaction between the electric field and the material at each point.

The principle is demonstrated at . A capacitive sensor similar to that shown at was constructed where a 7.6 mm b 9.5 mm and c 12.7 mm giving a minimum penetration depth 1.7 mm and a maximum penetration depth of 4.1 mm. A thin layer of acrylic adhesive separated the driven electrode the guard electrode and the ground electrode. Six 6.4 mm diameter holes with center to center spacing of 51 mm were drilled from the outside of an acrylic pipe having 14.6 cm inside diameter and 1.25 cm wall thickness. The holes were drilled to various depths from the outside of the pipe so that varying thickness of acrylic separated the bottom of the hole and the inner wall of the acrylic pipe. Hole locations and various residual material remaining between the bottom of the hole and inner wall of the acrylic pipe are indicated at .

The capacitive sensor was connected to a capacitance to digital converter and passed through the inside of the acrylic pipe. The capacitance to digital converter determined the capacitance of the acrylic pipe material within the measuring volume of the capacitive sensor based on evaluation of the RC time constant of the circuit formed by the driven electrode the ground electrode and the capacitance to digital converter. The capacitance measurements indicated at were utilized to determine hole location. The capacitive sensor easily detected the holes through 3.1 and 4.8 mm of residual material and marginally through 8.0 mm. Defects through 9.5 mm and 11 mm of residual material were not detected as expected.

The apparatus provided allows determinations such as that depicted at to detect and locate abnormalities in a dielectric material such as non metallic or plastic pipe using a capacitive sensor having a driven electrode a guard electrode and a ground electrode. The driven electrode and the ground electrode are electrically connected to a capacitance measurement device and form an RC circuit with the capacitance measurement device. The guard electrode is electrically connected to a shield driver to mimic the voltage applied to the driven electrode. The driven electrode the guard electrode and the ground electrode are arranged such that when a voltage is supplied to the driven electrode and the guard electrode a fringing field is established between the driven electrode and the ground electrode. The capacitive sensor is placed in sufficient proximity to the dielectric material so that the electric field extends through the dielectric material. The capacitance measurement device determines a capacitance of the dielectric between the driven electrode and the ground electrode based on the RC time constant of the RC circuit formed and a capacitance signal from the capacitance measurement device is sent to a processor. The processor is in further data communication with a location device which determines the location of the capacitive sensor with respect to some fixed point and the processor correlates the capacitance signal and a location signal from the location device in order to provide output such as that illustrated at . The output provided may be direct reading or may be stored by the processor and downloaded when the capacitive sensor has completed a sweep over some length of the dielectric material.

The apparatus is illustrated conceptually at . At a capacitive sensor is comprised of driven electrode guard electrode and ground electrode . Driven electrode and ground electrode are electrically connected to capacitance measurement device through electrical connections and respectively and form an RC circuit with capacitance measurement device . Capacitance measurement device is an analog or digital instrument designed to determine a capacitance between electrodes based on time constant evaluation of an RC circuit formed when electrical connections such as and serve as capacitance measurement device inputs. Power supply provides electrical power for the operation of capacitance measurement device in determining the capacitance of the RC circuit formed by driven electrode ground electrode and capacitance measurement device .

Guard electrode is electrically connected to shield driver through electrical connection . Shield driver is electrically connected to driven electrode such that shield driver provides an output which mimics the voltage of driven electrode and provides that output to guard electrode . Shield driver may be a component separate from capacitance measurement device such as an operational amplifier configured to duplicate the electrical signal provided to driven electrode as is known in the art or shield driver may be an integral component of capacitance measurement device when capacitance measurement device is an instrument designed to provide an active shield driver output as is known in the art.

Location device is maintained at a constant position with respect to the capacitive sensor such that any motion of location device reflects corresponding motion of the capacitive sensor. For example location device may be some fixed distance X from a fixed point on the capacitive sensor and a variable distance Y to a fixed reference point so that the displacement of the capacitive sensor from the fixed reference point may be determined from the displacement Y between location device and the fixed reference point . Location device may be any device capable of sensing device displacement and providing a location signal representative of that displacement. For example location device may be an optical mouse focused on a surface of material so that sensed movement over the surface may be converted to a displacement.

Capacitance measurement device is in data communication with processor through data connection and location device is in data communication with processor through data connection . Processor is programmed to receive a capacitance signal through data connection and a location signal through data connection and correlate the capacitance signal and the location signal.

In operation the capacitive sensor comprised of driven electrode guard electrode and ground electrode is placed in close proximity to a surface of dielectric material at a first point on the surface of dielectric material . Power supply provides electrical power to capacitance measurement device and capacitance measurement device determines a capacitance based on the time constant of the RC circuit formed by capacitance measurement device and the capacitive sensor when driven electrode and guard electrode are energized and a fringing electric field extends between driven electrode and ground electrode . Processor receives a capacitance signal from capacitance measurement device via data connection and receives a location signal from location device via data connection . The capacitance signal is representative of the capacitance of the volume of dielectric material within the measuring volume of the fringing electric field between driven electrode and ground electrode and the location signal is representative of the location of the capacitive sensor by virtue of the constant position of location device with respect to the capacitive sensor. Processor correlates the capacitance signal and the location signal and may provide a direct output or store the values in a data array.

Following measurement at the first point the capacitive sensor comprised of driven electrode guard electrode and ground electrode and location device may be displaced to a second point and the process may be repeated to record capacitance and location data for the second point. This may be repeated for any number of points on the surface of dielectric material . In an embodiment processor is in continuous data communication with location device and processor directs capacitance measurement device to take a capacitance measurement when a predetermined displacement since the previous measuring location has occurred based on data received from location device . The processor correlates the capacitance and location data and provides direct output or provides an indication of capacitance versus location such as that depicted at once all measurements are completed. Anomalies in dielectric are detected based on capacitance measurements obtained as a location as compared to capacitances measured at surrounding locations.

The capacitive sensor comprised of driven electrode guard electrode and ground electrode may be connected to an inspection vehicle through a sensor arm fixably attached to the capacitive sensor and the inspection vehicle. The inspection vehicle may be capable of travel over a length of dielectric material and the sensor arm may be capable of maintaining the capacitive sensor in close proximity to dielectric material over the length of travel. For example the sensor arm may be a telescoping arm which maintains contact between the capacitive sensor and the dielectric material as the inspection vehicle travels over the length of dielectric material . Location device may be similarly fixably attached to the inspection vehicle so that vehicle inspection travel displaces location device from the fixed point of reference and correspondingly displaces the capacitive sensor.

In operation the inspection vehicle may be capable of travel through the interior of a non metallic or plastic pipe. The inspection vehicle may traverse a piping length as the sensor arm maintains the capacitive sensor in close proximity to the inner wall of the piping length. During the traverse of the piping length the inspection vehicle may travel intermittently such that the inspection vehicle is at rest when capacitive measurements are taken or the inspection vehicle may move at a constant velocity such that capacitive measurements are taken concurrently with inspection vehicle motion. In the latter case the accuracy of the capacitance measurement is related to further displacement of the inspection vehicle that occurs over the time elapsed while the capacitance measurement is taken. However in a typical situation capacitance measurement will occur over a sufficiently short time period and inspection vehicle speed will be insufficient to generate a displacement that significantly impacts either the capacitance measurement or the location data correlated by processor .

An example of a capacitive sensor and a location device on an inspection vehicle is illustrated at . Capacitive sensor is comprised of a driven electrode not shown a guard electrode not shown and a ground electrode not shown and is fixably attached to sensor arm . Sensor arm is fixably attached to inspection vehicle . Location device is also fixably attached to inspection vehicle . Inspection vehicle is within the interior of pipe and sensor arm maintains capacitive sensor in close proximity to the inner wall of pipe . Inspection vehicle may travel through the interior of pipe in a direction parallel to the longitudinal axis of pipe either into or out of the page . As inspection vehicle travels though the interior of pipe a processor not shown may direct a capacitive measurement device not shown to determine capacitance using capacitive sensor at a plurality of points along the inner wall of pipe and provide a capacitance signal at each measurement point to the processor. Similarly location device provides a location signal to the processor as inspection vehicle transits so that the processor may correlate location and capacitance data at each measurement point. Anomolies may be detected over the piping length using correlated capacitance measurement and location data such as that shown at .

When a plurality of capacitive sensors such as shown at are utilized each capacitive sensor in the plurality of capacitive sensors is electrically connected to a single capacitance measurement device so that a plurality of capacitance measurement devices is similarly required. In an embodiment the capacitance measurement device electrically connected to the each capacitive sensor is an integrated circuit chip fixably attached to the each capacitive sensor. Such an arrangement allows capacitance measurement to occur close to the capacitive sensor so that noise circuit resistivity stray capacitances and other potential environmental impacts on the measurement may be mitigated.

When a plurality of capacitive sensors and a corresponding plurality of capacitance measurement devices are utilized a single capacitance measurement device in the plurality of capacitance measurement devices may be electrically connected to a power supply serving only that single capacitance measurement device or the single capacitance measurement device may be connected to a central power supply serving multiple capacitance measurement devices. Similarly a single capacitance measurement device may be in data communication with a processor serving only that single capacitance measurement device or the single capacitance measurement device may be in data communication with a central processor serving all capacitance measurement devices. Location data for each capacitive sensor in the plurality of capacitive sensors may be provided by location device based on the known spatial orientation of each capacitive sensor with respect to location device .

Sensors arms through may be telescoping arms powered by a spring a motor hydraulics or other means known in the art so that the capacitive sensors fixably attached are maintained in close proximity to the inner wall of pipe as inspection vehicle traverses the piping length.

Further inspection vehicle may also carry the power supply and the processor as on board payloads to mitigate the necessity of cables extending from the inspection vehicle to support equipment outside the pipe inspection environment.

An advantage of this disclosure is the determination of capacitance using a capacitive measurement device based on time constant determination. This greatly mitigates the impact of environmental noise on the sensitivity of the capacitive sensor as the voltage level is reduced as opposed to methods which utilize an AC signal in order to determine an impedance using phase shift and signal loss parameters. As a result the required power supply may be significantly less complex. Further the reduced voltages allowed by the time domain determination of capacitance within this disclosure provides significant advantage when operating in certain environments where the allowed voltage level may be limited because of for example an explosive hazard or other safety factors. This provides a significant flexibility in operation.

An embodiment which may be carried onboard an inspection vehicle such as inspection vehicle is illustrated schematically at . illustrates a capacitive sensor comprised of driven electrode guard electrode and ground electrode . Driven electrode and ground electrode are electrically connected to capacitance measurement device through electrical connections and respectively. In the embodiment shown capacitance measurement device is a capacitance to digital integrated chip designed to determine a capacitance between electrodes based on time constant evaluation of an RC circuit formed when electrical connections such as and serve as capacitance measurement device inputs. Additionally guard electrode is electrically connected to a shield driver not shown . In the embodiment shown the shield driver not shown is integral to the capacitance to digital integrated chip functioning as capacitance measurement device . Capacitance measurement device is in data communication with processor through data connection and is electrically connected to power supply .

In an embodiment capacitance measurement device is an ANALOG DEVICES AD7747 24 bit Capacitance to Digital Converter capable of high precision capacitance measurements with resolution down to 40 aF and using a IC serial communication format for communication with processor through data connection . The chip provides an active shield driver output that is used in the capacitive sensor and provides a built in temperature sensing element which may be read to provide temperature data taken physically at the chip.

In the embodiment shown power supply is a DC battery electrically connected to a voltage regulator and supplies a constant DC voltage to capacitance measurement device . In a particular embodiment power supply is a nickel metal hydride 9 volt battery electrically connected to an LM317 voltage regulator and provides 5.0 volts until battery voltage drops to about 6.5 volts. In another embodiment a 12 volt lead acid gel cell serves as the battery. Power supply may also provide power to other components illustrated at or the other components may utilize a power supply separate from power supply .

In the embodiment shown processor is a programmable microcontroller. In a particular embodiment processor is a MICROCHIP PIC16F877A microcontroller with built in RAM ROM I O microprocessor timers and counters. The chip may be programmed in circuit by using ICSP connector . In this embodiment processor is further in data communication with master clock a 20 MHz quartz crystal which provides timing for capacitance measurement device and location device through processor .

In the embodiment shown location device is an optical location chip providing a location signal to processor through data connection . In a particular embodiment location device is an AGILENT ADNS 2610 optical mouse encoder utilizing an LED illuminated micro camera to measure movement with a resolution of 400 counts per inch. Location data for the capacitive sensor is determined based on the sensed motion of the inner wall of the piping section as the inspection vehicle travels through the piping section and the resulting signal is sent from location device to processor . The chip counts motion starting at zero and resets each time it is read via a serial connection to processor . The processor maintains a cumulative value from read to read in order to measure distances between measurements as well as overall position.

Processor coordinates the timing of capacitance measurements generated by capacitance measurement device and location data provided by location device using a timing device such as master clock . When processor determines that a predetermined displacement since the last measured point has occurred based on the location signal from location device processor directs capacitance measurement device to conduct capacitance measurement utilizing the capacitive sensor comprised of driven electrode guard electrode and ground electrode . In response capacitance measurement device energizes driven electrode and guard electrode and a fringing electric field between driven electrode and ground electrode is established. Capacitance measurement device determines a capacitance between driven electrode and ground electrode and sends a capacitance signal to processor .

In the embodiment shown processor correlates the capacitance signal and the location signal and provides the capacitance and location data to output device . In a particular embodiment output device is a microwave serial link module and a MAX232 RS 232 buffer chip providing communication to a host PC for data collection and display so that wireless communication allows autonomous operation of the probe with no tether to bind or disturb the motion of the probe while traversing a pipe length. Output device may also store the capacitance and location data onboard so that the data may be retrieved from output device following inspection of the pipe length.

The components illustrated at may be hosted on a microcontroller board and carried as payload on an inspection vehicle such as inspection vehicle . In an embodiment the microcontroller board is an OLIMEX 40 pin PIC microcontroller project board. When a plurality of capacitive sensors such as shown at is utilized each capacitive sensor in the plurality of capacitive sensors is electrically connected to a single capacitance measurement device such as capacitance measurement device . Power supply processor and location device may similarly serve a single capacitive sensor or may serve multiple capacitive sensors in the plurality of capacitive sensors.

When the components illustrated at are carried as payload in an inspection vehicle such as inspection vehicle the inspection vehicle may be any type of vehicle that can be modified to carry the payloads associated with this disclose within the environment under which the piping inspection occurs. Motive force for the inspection vehicle may be supplied in any suitable manner for example the inspection vehicle may includes drive mechanisms such as wheels crawlers wall press walking inchworm screw and pushrods. For example vehicles disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 6 427 602 to Hovis et al. issued Aug. 6 2002 U.S. Pat. No. 4 986 314 to Himmler issued Jan. 22 1991 U.S. Pat. No. 5 878 783 to Smart issued Mar. 9 1999 among others are suitable for use when modified to carry the payloads provided in this disclosure.

In operation when an inspection vehicle such as inspection vehicle is utilized a sensor arm such as a spring loaded telescoping suspension holds the capacitive sensor in close proximity to the inner wall of the pipe under test such that the capacitive sensor may retract if a weld seam or physical pipe discontinuity is traversed during the inspection vehicle s traverse through the piping interior. During the traverse processor may tally the location data provided by location device and when a predetermined displacement has occurred since the last measurement processor may signal capacitance measurement device to initiate a capacitance measurement. Processor then reads the capacitance signal from capacitance measurement device and sends it to output device along with location data from location device and processor begins the loop over again waiting for the proper distance increment to take and transmit another capacitance and location reading.

As discussed previously within this disclosure when a capacitive sensor such as capacitive sensor is placed in close proximity to the material under inspection such as material comprising pipe this is meant to indicate that the electric field within the resultant measuring volume passes through the material at least to some degree. However as is understood in the art an air gap between the capacitive sensor and the material under inspection would be expected to reduce the sensitivity of the resulting measurement. As a result in one embodiment sensors arms such as sensor arms through establish physical contact between the capacitive sensors and the inner wall of pipe so that any air gap and the resulting impact on measurement is substantially mitigated. In this embodiment the driven electrode the guard electrode and the ground electrode comprising the capacitive sensor may be comprised of rigid material conformed to the inner curvature of the pipe under inspection. Alternatively the driven electrode the guard electrode and the ground electrode comprising the capacitive sensor may be made of a flexible material so that contact established between the capacitive sensor and the inner wall of a pipe acts to conform the capacitive sensor to the inner curvature. The flexible capacitive sensor may be fabricated in multi layer flexible circuit board material. The flexible capacitive sensor is thin and durable and may be affixed to sensor arms using adhesives. The flexible capacitive sensor may be fabricated using photographic techniques creating precise electrode geometries uniformity and interchangeability.

In another embodiment similar to that shown at the driven electrode is a first disc the guard electrode is a second disk and the ground electrode is an annulus and where the center of the first disk the second disk and the annulus are collinear. Removing the center of the ground electrode to form an annulus reduces the inherent built in capacitance while not impacting the projected electric field. As a result the capacitive sensor charges more quickly and requires less power to charge. In a specific configuration of this embodiment the diameter of the first disk is less than or equal to the diameter of the second disk and the diameter of the second disk is less than the outer diameter of the annulus but larger than the inner diameter of the annulus.

An embodiment similar to that depicted at was utilized to detect twelve defects of various sizes placed in a 4 m length of 0.15 m diameter 12.7 mm wall thickness polyethylene pipe. The locations and characteristics of the defects are indicated at Table 1. All defects were located at the same circumferential position. Defect depth ranged from 6.4 to 19.1 mm with volumes between 0.28 to 0.72 cc.

A probe has been designed and tested that can detect defects existing on the outer wall of polyethylene pipe or non metallic pipe from the interior wall. The probe may be self powered thus allowing the device to be placed in existing underground pipe and allowed to accumulate data concerning pipe integrity and then retrieved later for analysis.

Having described the basic concept of the invention it will be apparent to those skilled in the art that the foregoing detailed disclosure is intended to be presented by way of example only and is not limiting. Various alterations improvements and modifications are intended to be suggested and are within the scope and spirit of the present invention. Additionally the recited order of elements or sequences or the use of numbers letters or other designations therefore is not intended to limit the claimed processes to any order except as may be specified in the claims. Accordingly the invention is limited only by the following claims and equivalents thereto.

All publications and patent documents cited in this application are incorporated by reference in their entirety for all purposes to the same extent as if each individual publication or patent document were so individually denoted.

