---

title: Insensitive munitions primers
abstract: Embodiments of the invention provide munitions that are optimized for both performance and safety. According to various embodiments of the invention, primers are provided having reduced sensitivity by using less sensitive ingredients. The primer formulations according to embodiments of the invention provide primers that are insensitive to stimulants that tend to cause inappropriate ignition of main propelling charges.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08425703&OS=08425703&RS=08425703
owner: The United States of Amierica as Represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08425703
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100324
---
The embodiments of the invention described herein may be manufactured and used by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The subject matter described herein relates generally to primers for munitions. Specifically the subject matter described herein relates to primers for munitions having improved safety features for example primers for gun charges.

There is continued interest particularly in the defense industry in preparing new materials for use in explosives such as those used in munitions that have appropriate high energy properties but also have improved safety profiles. With regard to projectile munitions improved safety features have long been sought.

By way of background main propelling charges have been developed having high energy properties. These charges have advantages that are readily apparent to with excellent performance when the main propelling charge is ignited. However main propelling charges with high sensitivity have significant drawbacks including at least decreased safety with respect to inappropriate ignition of the main propelling charge such as untimely ignition of the main propelling charge due to for example unplanned stimuli including for example inappropriate application of heat fragment strikes et cetera .

Such safety concerns drove approaches to improve the safety of munitions. Previous approaches have focused efforts on modification of the main propelling charge to make the main propelling charge less sensitive to ignition via unplanned stimuli. In this regard improvements have been obtained in the area of decreasing the sensitivity of the main propelling charge. This approach has also lead to a scenario where it has been viewed as desirable if not necessary to increase the sensitivity of the priming charge such that the decreased sensitivity main propelling charge properly ignites.

Embodiments of the invention provide munitions that are optimized for both performance and safety. According to various embodiments of the invention primer compositions are provided which have reduced sensitivity to unplanned stimuli by selectively incorporating less sensitive ingredients. The primer formulations according to embodiments of the invention provide primers that are insensitive to unplanned stimuli that tend to cause inappropriate ignition of main propelling charges yet retain an adequate capability to ignite a main propelling charge.

In summary one aspect of the invention provides a device including one or more primers comprising a reduced sensitivity priming composition resistant to ignition via an unplanned stimulus.

Another aspect of the invention provides a method including forming one or more primers comprising a reduced sensitivity priming composition resistant to ignition via an unplanned stimulus and disposing the one or more primers in a casing configured to contain a main propelling charge therein.

A further aspect of the invention provides a device including one or more primers and a casing the casing having a main propellant disposed therein which substantially surrounds the one or more primers and the one or more primers comprising a priming composition the priming composition including potassium nitrate one or more of n guanylurea dinitramide and 1 1 diamino 2 2 dinitroethene cellulose acetate butyrate hydroxypropylcellulose N methyl nitratoethyl nitramine N ethyl 2 nitratoethyl nitramine and magnesium.

For a better understanding of the embodiments of the invention together with other and further features and advantages thereof reference is made to the following description taken in conjunction with the accompanying drawings and the scope of the claimed embodiments of the invention will be pointed out in the appended claims.

It will be readily understood that the components of the embodiments of the invention as generally described and illustrated in the figures herein may be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations in addition to the described exemplary embodiments. Thus the following more detailed description of the embodiments of the invention as represented in the figures is not intended to limit the scope of the embodiments of the invention as claimed but is merely representative of exemplary embodiments of the invention.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment or the like means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment or the like in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Furthermore the described features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. In the following description numerous specific details are provided to give a thorough understanding of embodiments of the invention. One skilled in the relevant art will recognize however that aspects of the invention can be practiced without one or more of the specific details or with other methods components materials et cetera. In other instances well known structures materials or operations are not shown or described in detail to avoid obscuring aspects of the invention.

As noted herein previous approaches to making munitions more insensitive to unplanned stimuli and thus resistant to premature unplanned discharge explosion have focused efforts on modification of the main propelling charge. Unplanned stimuli can include but are not limited to a direct fire fast cook off a nearby heat source slow cook off bullet fragment strikes and the like.

The response of munitions to unplanned stimuli can be generalized on a scale of Response Types. Response Types I through VI are often utilized where Types I II correspond to detonation and partial detonation respectively Type III corresponds to explosion Type IV corresponds to deflagration propulsion Type V corresponds to burning and Type VI corresponds to no sustained reaction. Prior approaches to obtaining a favorable response that is Type VI have generally focused on making the main propelling charge insensitive to unplanned stimuli. Importantly previous approaches generally incorporated primers that were designed to optimize ignition of main propelling charges particularly the insensitive main propelling charges that have been developed to achieve increased safety.

The inventors have discovered however that primer sensitivity to unplanned stimuli importantly impacts the overall safety profile of the munitions. Particularly the inventors have recognized that conventional assumptions regarding primers and priming charges were incorrect. These incorrect assumptions regarding primers and priming charges and the insensitive munitions IM response can be summarized as 1 the response of the main propelling charge was worse than the response for the priming charge and 2 that the response of the priming charge did not significantly contribute to the overall response.

The inventors have conducted testing indicating that indeed the response of the primer to unplanned stimuli significantly impacts the response of munitions to unplanned stimuli. In fact the response of the primer to unplanned stimuli tends to drive the response of the main propellant. Moreover with the advent of insensitive main propelling charges the contribution of the primer to the IM response is increased. Therefore the inventors have recognized a need for primers with decreased sensitivity if IM compliance of main propelling charges is to be achieved.

By way of non limiting example the inventors have discovered during testing that the response to a fragment impact test on a decreased sensitivity main propelling charge was no response Type VI when the primer was not struck. A decreased sensitivity main propelling charge includes for example a main propelling charge conventionally referred to as a low vulnerability main propelling charge LOVA which is generally regarded as a difficult to ignite main propellant requiring appropriate temperature oxygen pressure and hot particles. However in a re test of fragment impact where the primer was struck an explosion reaction Type III resulted.

Accordingly embodiments of the invention provide munitions that are optimized for both performance and safety. A priming charge formulation generally includes a binder which comprises a polymer and a plasticizer and one or more solids. According to various embodiments of the invention priming charge formulations are provided which have reduced sensitivity to unplanned stimuli because one or more of the binder and the solid s have been modified. Embodiments of the invention provide priming charges that include one or more of potassium nitrate KNO n guanylurea dinitramide so called FOX 12 1 1 diamino 2 2 dinitroethene so called FOX 7 cellulose acetate butyrate CAB hydroxypropylcellulose HPC N methyl nitratoethyl nitramine MeNENA N ethyl 2 nitratoethyl nitramine EtNENA and magnesium.

Described in detail herein are several representative and exemplary primer re formulations PRFs of priming charges consistent with embodiments of the invention as claimed. Overall the PRFs are designed to achieve decreased primer sensitivity to unplanned stimuli compared to conventional primer formulations such as MK 98 while retaining certain positive aspects of conventional primer formulations for example the ability to adequately ignite the main propellant charge .

The illustrated embodiments of the invention will be best understood by reference to the figures. While the figures illustrate representative examples the following description is intended only by way of example and simply illustrates certain exemplary embodiments of the invention as claimed herein.

Referring to exemplary configurations of munitions are illustrated. As shown the overall configuration of the ammunition includes a casing configured to house the main propelling charge and the priming charge which is contained in a primer such as a primer tube . The casing and can interface with a projectile and forming an enclosure housing the propellants. However munitions can take any of a variety of forms such as that of a separated ammunition in which case the projectile is separately loaded from the casing housing the main propelling charge. As such a mouth plug can be included at the top end of the casing which is adjacent to the projectile rather than a direct interface between the casing and projectile as represented in and .

For ease of discussion a reference axis is included in which corresponds to the cross sectional view shown in . The propellants may take the form of a main propelling charge substantially surrounding a primer tube . The primer tube contains a primer propellant priming charge. It should be noted however that the main propelling charge and the priming charge can be configured in any of a variety of ways such that the priming charge when ignited properly ignites the main propelling charge. Thus an electric or percussion primer may be used as illustrated in . It should also be noted that in some ammunition particularly large scale separated ammunition an additional charge is often included in the projectile itself.

Referring to illustrated in tabular format are several exemplary PRFs PRF 11 PRF 12 PRF 71 PRF 72 according to embodiments of the invention contrasted with a conventional primer formulation MK 98 know to easily ignite a LOVA main propelling charge. It should be particularly noted that the weight percentages of the PRFs illustrated in the figures throughout are given as non limiting examples.

MK 98 includes in weight percent about 61.90 potassium perchlorate KP about 17.40 nitrocellulose NC about 13.70 trietyleneglycoldinitrate TEGDN about 6.40 magnesium and about 0.60 ethyl centralite EC . A baseline primer formulation is included in for reference the baseline formulation includes in weight percent about 61.90 potassium nitrate KNO about 12.96 cellulose acetate butyrate CAB about 12.96 hydroxypropylcellulose HPC about 3.11 N methyl nitratoethyl nitramine MeNENA about 2.07 N ethyl 2 nitratoethyl nitramine EtNENA and about 7.00 magnesium.

As shown the PRFs according to embodiments of the invention include a priming charge having a combination of one or more of the following ingredients potassium nitrate KNO n guanylurea dinitramide FOX 12 1 1 diamino 2 2 dinitroethene FOX 7 cellulose acetate butyrate CAB hydroxypropylcellulose HPC N methyl nitratoethyl nitramine MeNENA N ethyl 2 nitratoethyl nitramine EtNENA and magnesium.

As shown in an exemplary embodiment of the invention provides a PRF PRF 11 that includes in weight percent about 46.90 potassium nitrate KNO about 15.00 n guanylurea dinitramide FOX 12 about 12.96 cellulose acetate butyrate CAB about 12.96 hydroxypropylcellulose HPC about 3.11 MeNENA about 2.07 EtNENA and about 7.00 magnesium.

Another exemplary embodiment of the invention provides a PRF PRF 12 that includes in weight percent about 31.90 potassium nitrate KNO about 30.00 n guanylurea dinitramide FOX 12 about 12.96 cellulose acetate butyrate CAB about 12.96 hydroxypropylcellulose HPC 3.11 MeNENA about 2.07 EtNENA and about 7.00 magnesium.

Another exemplary embodiment of the invention provides a PRF PRF 71 that includes in weight percent about 46.90 potassium nitrate KNO about 15.00 1 1 diamino 2 2 dinitroethene FOX 7 about 12.96 cellulose acetate butyrate CAB about 12.96 hydroxypropylcellulose HPC about 3.11 MeNENA about 2.07 EtNENA and about 7.00 magnesium.

Another exemplary embodiment of the invention provides a PRF PRF 72 that includes in weight percent about 31.90 potassium nitrate KNO about 30.00 1 1 diamino 2 2 dinitroethene FOX 7 about 12.96 cellulose acetate butyrate CAB about 12.96 hydroxypropylcellulose HPC about 3.11 MeNENA about 2.07 EtNENA and about 7.00 magnesium.

Also presented in are calculated flame temperature K pressure MPa impetus J g gas molecular weight g mole co volume cm g and ratio of specific heats for MK 98 the baseline formulation and the exemplary PRFs according to embodiments of the invention. As illustrated in the PRFs demonstrate favorable parameters inasmuch as the flame temperature is high enough to ignite the main propelling charge but is not so high as to damage the overall casing the pressure is adequately high and the molecular weight MW of the gases is adequately low.

Referring now to small scale sensitivity parameters of exemplary primer formulations according to embodiments of the invention contrasted with reference materials. As shown the NOS naval ordinance station impact 50 height in mm the ABL Allegheny Ballistics Laboratory friction 20 T 1L psig ABL ESD electrostatic discharge 20 T 1L joules and DSC differential scanning calorimetery Exotherm Peak degrees Celsius are shown. All PRFs were found to be less sensitive to unplanned stimuli than standard primer formulations here MK 98 and RDX . As illustrated in the small scale sensitivity of the PRFs is reduced the higher the number the less sensitive the PRF .

Referring now to the burning rate of the baseline PRIMB is contrasted with the PRFs according to embodiments of the invention. As illustrated in the burn rate of the PRFs at various pressures are illustrated which are useful in determining the appropriate geometry of the primer charge material in order to meet manufacturing requirements.

In are shown critical diameter test results shock sensitivity test tool of PRFs according to embodiments of the invention contrasted with the baseline PRIMB . As shown all of the PRFs according to embodiments of the invention failed to detonate illustrating that they are very insensitive to unplanned stimuli.

Turning now to main propellant ignitability testing results for PRFs according to embodiments of the invention are illustrated. As illustrated the main chamber pressure kpsi as a function of time seconds increases in response to ignition of the priming charge commensurate with adequate ignition of the main propelling charge. These results confirm that the exemplary PRFs illustrated herein are capable of properly igniting the main propelling charge.

As described herein primer propellants according to embodiments of the invention have reduced sensitivity by avoiding conventionally used primer propellant ingredients. For example nitrocellulose is removed as a primer propellant ingredient according to embodiments of the invention and is replaced with less sensitive ingredients for example CAB and HPC are binder polymers used according to embodiments of the invention. MeNENA and EtNENA are binder plasticizers used according to embodiments of the invention and FOX 7 and FOX 12 are solids used according to embodiments of the invention.

This disclosure has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limiting. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art. The embodiments were chosen and described in order to explain principles and practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

In the figures and specification there has been set forth exemplary embodiments of the invention and although specific terms are used the description thus given uses terminology in a generic and descriptive sense only and not for purposes of limitation.

Finally any numerical parameters set forth in the specification and attached claims are approximations for example by using the term about that may vary depending upon the desired properties sought to be obtained by the embodiments of the present invention. At the very least and not as an attempt to limit the application of the doctrine of equivalents to the scope of the claims each numerical parameter should at least be construed in light of the number of significant digits and by applying ordinary rounding.

