---

title: Method for optimizing parameter settings of energy supply parameters of a field device power supply module
abstract: A method for optimizing the parameter setting of at least one energy supply parameter of a field device power supply module. The field device power supply module is, in such case, connected exclusively to one field device. The connected field device is supplied with electrical energy by the field device power supply module. In the method, the system composed of field device and field device power supply module is operated and a parameter setting of at least one energy supply parameter varied. In such case, the operation of the field device is monitored. Parameter settings are ascertained, in the case of which a relatively low energy consumption of the field device and simultaneously a safe operation of the field device can be realized in the relevant operational phase.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08898498&OS=08898498&RS=08898498
owner: Endress + Hauser Process Solutions AG
number: 08898498
owner_city: Reinach
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20101108
---
The present invention relates to a method for optimizing the parameter setting of at least one energy supply parameter of a field device power supply module.

In process automation technology field devices are often applied for registering and or influencing process variables. Serving for registering process variables are sensors such as for example fill level measuring devices flow measuring devices pressure and temperature measuring devices pH redox potential measuring devices conductivity measuring devices etc. which register the corresponding process variables fill level flow pressure temperature pH value and conductivity respectively. Serving for influencing process variables are actuators such as for example valves or pumps via which the flow of a liquid in a section of pipeline or the fill level in a container can be changed. Especially such sensors and actuators are referred to as field devices. A large number of such field devices are available from the firm Endress Hauser.

In modern industrial plants field devices are as a rule connected with superordinated units via bus systems Profibus Foundation Fieldbus HART etc. . Normally the superordinated units are control systems or control units such as for example PLCs programmable logic controllers . The superordinated units serve among others for process control process visualizing process monitoring as well as for start up of the field devices. The measured values registered by the field devices especially sensors are transmitted via the particular bus system to one or in given cases a number of superordinated unit s . Along with that also required is data transmission from the superordinated unit via the bus system to the field devices especially for configuring and parametering the field devices as well as for operating actuators.

Besides wired data transmission in a fieldbus system there is also the opportunity for wireless data transmission. For implementing wireless data transmission newer field devices are in part embodied as radio field devices. These have as a rule a radio unit as an integral component. Furthermore they can also have an integrated electrical current source such as for example a single use battery so that they are operable autarkically.

Along with that there is also the opportunity to turn field devices without a radio unit i.e. with only a wired communication interface and without their own electrical current source into a radio field device by connecting a wireless adapter which has a radio unit. For example the publication WO 2005 103851 A1 describes a wireless adapter. In such case a wireless adapter is preferably embodied in such a manner that it also enables energy supply of the connected field device. In the latter case the wireless adapter simultaneously forms a field device power supply module.

Similarly as in a field device also in a wireless adapter a number of parameters are provided. In part these are preset by the manufacturer of the wireless adapter and or can be set by a user especially changed activated and or deactivated. The parameters are as a rule stored in a memory of the wireless adapter. In this way a corresponding control unit e.g. a microprocessor of the wireless adapter can access these parameters and operate the wireless adapter corresponding to the parameter settings of the parameters. The respective parameter settings of the parameters determine in such case the manner of operation of the wireless adapter.

In case the wireless adapter can also provide an energy supply of the connected field device i.e. the wireless adapter is embodied as a field device power supply module then provided in the wireless adapter are corresponding parameters. These parameters enable settings relative to the energy supply or electrical current supply of the field device. These parameters are referred to in the following as energy supply parameters. As a function of the field device type connected to the wireless adapter there are different requirements relative to the energy supply by the wireless adapter. Depending on field device type thus corresponding parameter settings of the energy supply parameters must be performed in order to be able to assure an optimal energy supply by the wireless adapter for the connected field device.

In such case there has been to this point in time the opportunity to use for the energy supply parameters of the wireless adapter so called default parameter settings standard parameter settings which can also already be preset which are applicable for a large number of field device types. However such default parameter settings do not as a rule enable an optimal energy supply of the connected field device type. The consequence thereof can be especially an increased energy consumption and or a longer time period until a valid measured value is delivered by the field device. Furthermore there is the opportunity that the adjusting of the energy supply parameters be performed by a user. Also here the problem arises that the user must first of all ascertain the parameter settings of the energy supply parameters optimal for the particular connected field device type for example by looking in the manual of the particular field device etc. and must then input these into the wireless adapter. The user must expend a relatively high effort for this. Also the danger that errors occur is relatively large.

Accordingly an object of the present invention is to provide a method which enables in the case of a field device power supply module especially in the case of a wireless adapter the selecting of energy supply parameter settings suitable for a connected field device type.

The object is achieved by a method for optimizing parameter settings of at least one energy supply parameter of a field device power supply module. The field device power supply module is in such case connected to exclusively one field device especially a sensor or an actuator . Furthermore the field device power supply module includes an electrical energy source or is connected to such and the connected field device is supplied by the field device power supply module with electrical energy or electrical power . The at least one energy supply parameter concerns in such case energy supply of the field device by the field device power supply module. The method of the invention comprises steps as follows 

The optimizing method of the invention enables ascertaining for a connected field device type parameter settings which provide safe operation of the field device in the relevant operational phase. This is especially achieved by the feature that the respective parameter settings are tested by setting them in the field device power supply module and then monitoring the operation of the field device. Furthermore parameter settings are ascertained by which relatively low energy consumption can be realized. In this way especially both the effort as well as the risk of input errors by a user can be reduced.

The steps of automated varying and automated ascertaining are performed in such case especially in such a manner according to predetermined rules that parameter settings are ascertained which enable simultaneously an as low as possible energy consumption and a safe operation of the field device. The parameter settings are preferably ascertained in such a manner that the energy supply is set not on the lowest limit of the electrical energy required in each case by the field device but instead somewhat above such limit.

Referred to generically or singly as an operational phase herein are especially those operating states of the field device in the case of which in each case equal requirements relative exist to the need for energy. For example form a starting phase and normal operation are two operational phases wherein in the starting phase other requirements for the energy supply are present than in the normal operation.

Depending on operational phase it can in such case be provided that the field device is operated continuously in one operational phase for example in normal operation and in such case at least one parameter setting is varied as well as the manner of operation monitored the steps in paragraph B . Alternatively however also an operational phase e.g. a starting phase can be completely run through with a certain parameter setting of at least one energy supply parameter and in such case the operation monitored the steps in paragraph B . The parameter setting is only then changed e.g. as a function of the result of the preceding running and the loop is then run through anew.

The field device power supply module need not absolutely be embodied as a wireless adapter. Rather it can be in general a module which is embodied for connection to a single field device and through which the one connected field device is suppliable with electrical energy or electrical power . For example instead of the previously frequently provided direct connection of a field device to the grid current it can also be provided that it is connected via a field device power supply module of the invention to the grid current or also to another energy source which can be embodied externally of and or internally in the field device power supply module so that the field device is supplied with electrical energy by the field device power supply module. In this way the electrical current supply can be optimally matched to the respective field device type. Correspondingly consumption of electrical energy can be reduced. Besides the electrical current supply of the connected field device the field device power supply module can also perform yet other functions.

In a field device power supply module in such case in corresponding manner as this is explained above in reference to a wireless adapter parameters are provided through which a manner of operation of the field device power supply module is adjustable. The parameters are in such case especially stored in a memory of the field device power supply module so that a control unit e.g. a microprocessor of the field device power supply module can access these parameters and operate the field device power supply module corresponding to the parameter settings. Especially energy supply parameters are provided in the field device power supply module wherein through the parameter setting of these energy supply parameters the properties or characterizing variables of the energy supply or electrical current supply provided by the field device power supply module are adjustable. The field device power supply module is in such case connected to exclusively one field device. Especially it is not embodied for energy supply of a plurality of field devices connected in parallel. Accordingly the energy supply parameters can also be set specially for the particularly connected field device type so that its energy supply is optimized. Preferably the field device power supply module is connected releasably to a field device. In this way it is connectable in simple manner to different field devices especially also to different field device types.

The energy supply parameters concern energy supply of the connected field device by the field device power supply module. Especially these parameters permit the electrical energy especially electrical power provided by the field device power supply module to be matched to a power requirement of the particular connected field device type and in given cases also to different operating phases of this field device type. Examples of energy supply parameters include among others electrical current values voltage values and or time periods during which for example a certain voltage value is to be provided etc.

To the extent that some steps of the method are said to be automated this means that these are executed without human intervention especially by soft and or hardware. In the method of the invention especially the steps of varying monitoring and ascertaining involve automated performance.

In a further development the field device power supply module is in the form of a wireless adapter by which a wireless signal transmission is effected for the connected field device. In this way a conventional field device can be retrofitted into a radio field device and simultaneously be operated in an energy saving manner. In such case it can be provided that all communication for the field device is performed wirelessly by the wireless adapter. This is however not absolutely necessary. Rather it can also be provided that a part of the communication occurs by wire. For example it can be provided in the case of a HART field device that a measured value is transmitted analogly via a wired communication connection according to the 4 20 mA standard while other information is transmitted wirelessly through the wireless adapter.

The wireless adapter can especially be embodied in such a manner that it forms a communication participant of a radio or wireless network according to the standard IEEE 802.15.4. The radio network can furthermore be embodied according to the wireless HART standard or according to the ISA100 standard which in each case builds upon the standard IEEE 802.15.4. In the case of the said radio or wireless networks the wireless adapter communicates as a rule with a gateway which enables communication with a network superordinated to the radio network a superordinated network such as for example a wired fieldbus a company network e.g. an Ethernet network the Internet and or a system communicating via GSM etc. Connected to the superordinated network can be for example a superordinated unit which provides process control plant asset management system a visualizing system etc. so that communication is enabled between these and the field device via the gateway and the wireless adapter . Alternatively to the above said standardized radio or wireless networks however also other radio or wireless networks can be applied. Additionally or alternatively the wireless adapter can also be embodied in such a manner that it enables direct wireless communication for example via GSM Bluetooth wireless LAN etc. . In this way it can communicate wirelessly directly with a communication unit e.g. a superordinated unit which provides process control plant asset management system a visualizing system a vendor asset management system etc. which requests for example a transmitted measured value or sends control commands to the wireless adapter etc.

In a further development the field device power supply module includes at least one autarkic electrical current source. In this way the system composed of field device and field device power supply module is operable decoupled from a grid current. If the field device power supply module is simultaneously embodied as a wireless adapter then the system of field device and wireless adapter can be operated completely autarkically i.e. without connection to an external electrical current grid and without wired connection to a fieldbus or to a network . This is especially advantageous in the case of exposed and or difficultly accessible locations and or locations exposed to extreme conditions of use in a plant. The field device power supply module can especially have a single use battery a rechargeable battery and or a solar cell as the autarkic electrical current source.

In a further development the field device power supply module is connected to a communication interface of the field device.

If the field device power supply module is embodied as a wireless adapter then for sending data via the fieldbus these data are sent via the communication interface wired to the wireless adapter which then transmits these via radio to the target location. Conversely the wireless adapter can receive data via radio and forward such by wire via the communication interface to the field device. In a further development the communication interface is embodied as a fieldbus communication interface and communication therethrough occurs according to the respective fieldbus protocol. In such case especially a standardized fieldbus system is suitable such as for example Profibus compare Profibus Profile Specification version 3.0 or Foundation Fieldbus compare Foundation specification Function Block Application Process revision EN 1.7 wherein a fieldbus communication interface according to the HART standard compare HART Field Communication Protocol Specifications revision 7.0 is preferable due to the frequent application of this fieldbus system and due to its good suitability for wireless communication. If the field device power supply module is embodied simultaneously as a wireless adapter then preferably the wireless communication also occurs according to the respective fieldbus standard according to which also the wired communication interface of the field device is embodied. In reference to the wired communication interface of the field device the field device can be embodied as a 2 conductor device which means that both the communication as well as also the energy supply or electrical current supply of the field device occurs via a shared 2 conductor connection. Furthermore the field device can also be embodied as a 4 conductor device which means that the communication occurs via one 2 conductor connection and the energy supply of the field device via another 2 conductor connection.

In a further development the steps of automated varying automated monitoring and automated ascertaining are executed by the field device power supply module. In this way the method of the invention can be executed completely in the field device power supply module. As a result there is no dependence on external systems and no communication with external systems is required.

In a further development in the step of automated varying in an operational phase of the field device a parameter setting of an energy supply parameter in terms of a voltage which is to be provided to the field device in the relevant operational phase of the field device power supply module is varied and the operation of the field device is monitored the steps in paragraph B . Through the varying of this parameter setting accordingly also the voltage provided by the field device power supply module to the field device is varied. In this way in simple manner the voltage required for the particular operational phase can be ascertained.

In such case the predetermined rules according to which the step of automated varying is performed are embodied especially in such a manner that when in an operational phase of the field device in the step of automated monitoring no malfunction of the field device is detectable which is caused by an insufficient energy supply in this operational phase a parameter setting of the energy supply parameter of the voltage is reduced to a lower voltage value and the operation of the field device is monitored anew . Furthermore the predetermined rules according to which the step of automated varying is performed are embodied especially in such a manner that when in an operational phase of the field device in the step of automated monitoring a malfunction of the field device is detectable which is caused by an insufficient energy supply in this operational phase a parameter setting of the energy supply parameter of the voltage is increased to a higher voltage value and the operation of the field device is monitored anew .

In a further development in the step of automated monitoring the operation of the field device is monitored for the occurrence of one or more of the following malfunctions 

b occurrence of an electrical current decline of the electrical current value flowing through the field device below a predetermined limit value and or

c occurrence of a disturbance of a communication between the field device and the field device power supply module.

In the case of occurrence of such malfunctions it can especially be established that safe operation of the field device is no longer possible at the respective parameter settings. In such case the monitoring for one or more of the said malfunctions can in given cases also occur as a function of the respective operational phase. The occurrence of an electrical current decline is especially an indication of a malfunction when a HART field device is involved which is operated in the operational phase of normal operation in a multidrop mode. In such a multidrop mode the electrical current value is set not in a 4 20 mA mode but instead at a fixed electrical current value which is as low as possible e.g. 4 mA and communication via the HART communication interface is exclusively digital. Also it can be recognized from an electrical current decline that a device crash occurred and the field device was restarted. The occurrence of a disturbance of a communication in operating phases in which a communication between the field device and the field device power supply module should be possible such as for example in the normal operating phase is an indication of a malfunction. In addition to these the monitoring can also look for other possible malfunctions such as for example whether a status report transmitted as a rule with a measured value is positive status GOOD or negative status BAD .

In a further development the field device power supply module has one or more of the following energy supply parameters 

The setting of the energy supply parameters including starting voltage starting time and starting current should in such case occur as a function of the respectively connected field device type in such a manner that sufficient energy supply of the field device is assured during its starting phase. After the starting phase the field device switches to normal operation in which it likewise requires a sufficiently high voltage which can deviate from the voltage required during the starting phase. The voltage provided by the field device power supply module for the normal operation that is after expiration of the starting time is determined by the setting of the energy supply parameter operating voltage . The field device can in such case run through the starting phase and the switching to normal operation upon switch on from an off state and or from a sleep mode. Especially these phases can be run through upon each switch on when operation is in a clocked mode. Depending on field device type in such case however also other and or further operating phases of the field device can be provided with corresponding voltage and electrical current requirements. In corresponding manner also provided in the field device power supply module can be other or further energy supply parameters by which in each case an appropriate energy supply of the connected field device can be set for the various operating phases.

In a further development for ascertaining a parameter setting of an energy supply parameter in terms of a time period of an operational phase of the field device or a time period of a section of an operational phase of the field device a sufficient energy supply of the field device is provided by the field device power supply module and the time period measured which the field device requires for passing through the operational phase or the section of the operational phase. The providing of a sufficient energy supply can be achieved for example by using for the relevant energy supply parameters default parameter settings or parameter settings ascertained earlier for example by the method of the invention .

An energy supply parameter in terms of a time period of an operational phase is for example the above mentioned starting time . For ascertaining the parameter setting for this energy supply parameter especially a sufficient energy supply of the field device is provided by the field device power supply module and the time period from turn on of the field device up to a switching of the field device into normal operation is measured. The switching of the field device into normal operation is especially detected when the electrical current required by the field device is at a fixed electrical current value and or when communication for example HART communication between the field device and the field device power supply module is enabled. The moving to a fixed electrical current value is especially a sign for a switching into normal operation when the field device is operated in normal operation in a multidrop mode.

An energy supply parameter in terms of a time period of a section of an operational phase is for example the above mentioned setup time period . For ascertaining the parameter setting of this energy supply parameter especially a sufficient energy supply of the field device is provided by the field device power supply module and the time period measured from switching of the field device into normal operation up to the point in time at which the field device delivers a valid measured value.

In a further development for the case in which the field device requires a higher voltage in a following operational phase as parameter setting of the energy supply parameter the time period of an operational phase of the field device or the time period of a section of an operational phase of the field device a predetermined offset is subtracted from the measured time period. Additionally or alternatively for the case in which the field device in a following operational phase requires a lower voltage as parameter setting of the energy supply parameter a predetermined offset i.e. a predetermined time period is added to the measured time period. Through these offsets a sufficient energy supply assured is also when the field device is switching from one operational phase into another operational phase even when the switching does not occur exactly at the expected point in time.

In a further development for ascertaining a parameter setting of an energy supply parameter in terms of the starting voltage steps are performed as follows 

In such case the monitoring is preferably performed during the running of the total starting phase to the extent that the running continues . The switching of the field device into normal operation means that energy supply during the starting phase was sufficient. The steps of lowering step F and renewed placing step G permit testing whether a yet lower setting of the starting voltage is possible in order to achieve a lesser consumption of energy.

In a further development for ascertaining a parameter setting of an energy supply parameter in terms of the operating voltage in the step of automated varying in the operational phase of normal operation of the field device the set operating voltage is varied and the operation of the field device is monitored.

In a further development for ascertaining a parameter setting of an energy supply parameter in terms of the starting electrical current the system composed of field device and field device power supply module is placed in operation wherein a sufficient voltage for the starting phase is provided by the field device power supply module and the maximum electrical current value used by the field device during the starting time is measured by the field device power supply module. The electrical current used by the field device during the starting phase can in such case also vary during the starting phase. The providing of a sufficiently high voltage for the starting phase can be achieved for example by a default parameter setting of the starting voltage. Preferably used as parameter setting for the starting voltage is a voltage value ascertained earlier for the respective field device type for example according to the method of the invention .

In a further development the ascertained parameter setting of the at least one energy supply parameter is adopted in the field device power supply module. As a result the field device power supply module is operated with this ascertained parameter setting.

Furthermore according to a further development it is provided that the method of the invention is started by a user. This can occur for example via a service unit provided on the field device power supply module or also from an external communication unit which is in communicative connection by wire and or via radio with the field device power supply module. Furthermore the method of the invention can be started automatically or initiated by a user also from a configuration unit in which a corresponding configuration tool e.g. the FieldCare tool of Endress Hauser is implemented. Furthermore it can be provided that the field device power supply module monitors whether a new field device type is connected and when it senses such a change it then performs the method of the invention. Furthermore the field device power supply module can be so embodied that for example via a configuration tool it is configurable when and under which circumstances the method of the invention is executed.

The present invention relates furthermore to a field device power supply module which has an electrical energy source or is connectable to such and which is embodied in such a manner that it is connectable to exclusively one field device that it can supply a connected field device with electrical energy that it has energy supply parameters which concern energy supply of a connected field device by the field device power supply module and that it can perform the method of the invention in given cases also according to one or more of the explained further developments and or variants. Such a field device power supply module especially achieves the above explained advantages. Especially the field device power supply module is embodied in such a manner that it can perform the steps of automated varying and automated monitoring steps in B and automated ascertaining step C .

During normal operation the field device requires an operating voltage V which in the illustrated example of an embodiment is lower than the starting voltage V. In normal operation communication of the field device via its HART communication interface with the wireless adapter is possible. In normal operation the HART field device which in the present example of an embodiment is in the form of a 2 conductor device is operated especially in an energy saving multidrop mode. Alternatively the HART field device can however also be operated in a 4 20 mA mode in which the electrical current value is set analogly in known manner in each case corresponding to the measured value registered by the field device. Additionally the 4 20 mA signal can be superimposed in known manner with a digital signal. In reference to the normal operational phase there is provided in the wireless adapter the energy supply parameter operating voltage by which is settable the voltage to be provided by the wireless adapter after expiration of the set starting time.

Directly after switching into normal operation the field device can still provide no measured value. For example the field device still requires time to record one or more measured value s to perform calculations etc. The time period which passes after the switching into normal operation point in time t until the point in time when the field device can provide a measured value point in time t is referred to as the setup time period. Depending on field device type this time period can vary between some seconds up to some minutes. In the wireless adapter the energy supply parameter setup time period is provided by which can be set the time period from the end of the starting time up to the point in time at which the field device delivers a valid measured value. This setup time period can vary depending on field device type. The set setup time period is allowed by the wireless adapter to pass after switching of the field device into normal operation before the wireless adapter queries the field device for a measured value. During such waiting time the wireless adapter can be operated in an energy saving mode which enables an energy saving operation. In the case of the situation illustrated in at the point in time t the measured value query has been completely executed and the field device is switched back off.

In contrast to the voltage requirement illustrated in in the case of the situation illustrated in the required operating voltage V of the field device is higher than the required starting voltage V . For the remainder reference is made here to the description of .

In the following with reference to the schematic block diagram of by way of example a field device and a thereto connected wireless adapter will now be explained. Field device is a sensor and embodied as a 2 conductor device. Especially the system composed of field device and wireless adapter forms a system such as is represented in in each case by the pairs formed of a field device FD and a wireless adapter WA.

Field device includes a measured value transducer and a control unit embodied in the form of microprocessor . Furthermore field device includes a wired HART communication interface connected to microprocessor . Associated with HART communication interface is a functional unit which is formed by an ASIC Application Specific Integrated Circuit and which performs the sending and or receiving of signals corresponding to the HART standard via the HART communication interface . Via the HART communication interface field device could alternatively to the illustrated connection to the wireless adapter be connected to a wired HARTS fieldbus system. Furthermore field device includes a data memory and a display and keypad unit . Furthermore field device is shown schematically to have a service interface with which is associated a functional unit in the form of an ASIC.

Wireless adapter likewise includes a control unit in the form of a microprocessor . For data exchange over the radio network microprocessor is connected with a radio unit which includes an RF chipset and an antenna . Radio unit is in such case embodied in such a manner that the wireless communication occurs according to the wireless HART standard. The microprocessor is connected furthermore with a data memory . Stored in the data memory are the parameter settings of the wireless adapter . The microprocessor can access these parameter settings in order to operate the wireless adapter correspondingly to the parameter settings. The wireless adapter includes furthermore a display and keypad unit . For communication with the field device the wireless adapter includes a wired HART communication interface with which is associated a functional unit which performs according to the HART standard the sending and or receiving of signals via the HART communication interface . Functional unit is provided in the form of an ASIC. The HART communication interface of the field device and the HART communication interface of the wireless adapter are connected with one another via a conductor connecting line . Via this connection there occurs both the communication between the field device and the wireless adapter as well as also the electrical current supply of the field device by the wireless adapter . The wireless adapter can thus provide wireless signal transmission for the connected field device .

For providing the electrical current supply of the field device and of the wireless adapter the wireless adapter includes an electrical current source in the form a single use battery and a power supply connected to the single use battery . Power supply supplies via electrical current supply lines which are not shown electrical energy or electrical power to the system components of the wireless adapter as well as to the system components of the field device via the HART communication interface the 2 conductor connecting line the HART communication interface and a thereto connected power supply of the field device . In such case the individual power supplies and can also in each case be divided into a number of power supply stages. The power supply of the wireless adapter is operated by the microprocessor in correspondence with the parameter settings of the energy supply parameters. Thus the power supply provides energy corresponding to the parameter settings.

A field device and a thereto connected field device power supply module will now be explained with reference to by way of example based on its schematic block diagram. Primarily differences compared with the arrangement illustrated in will be explained. Field device here is constructed like that illustrated in so that in turn the same reference characters are used. Field device power supply module in contrast to the wireless adapter of here provides no wireless signal transmission for the field device . Accordingly field device power supply module has no radio unit and no antenna. Field device power supply module is constructed in manner corresponding to the wireless adapter of . Especially it includes a microprocessor a data memory a display and keypad unit a HART communication interface a functional unit associated therewith a single use battery and a power supply . The HART communication interface of the field device and the HART communication interface of the field device power supply module are again connected with one another via a 2 conductor connecting line so that communication according to the HART standard is possible between the field device and the field device power supply module . In order in the context of process control to be able to communicate with a superordinated unit the field device is connected via its HART communication interface in the illustrated example of an embodiment furthermore by wire to a fieldbus this being illustrated schematically in by the branch from the 2 conductor connecting line .

Then a restart of the field device is performed wherein the parameter settings of the relevant energy supply parameters are again set to default values compare NEW START U DEFAULT in box . The field device can therewith safely start and pass into normal operation. Time from the point in time of the switching on of the field device is measured compare START TIME MEASUREMENT in box . As was above explained with reference to the field device passes through the starting phase. During this the electrical current used by the field device is measured and the maximum electrical current value I MAX visited during the starting phase is captured. This maximum electrical current value I MAX is adopted as parameter setting for the starting current compare MEASURE I I MAX in box . After passing through the starting phase the field device transfers automatically into normal operation present due to the presetting of the multidrop mode .

The switching into normal operation can be detected by the fact that the electrical current value at the HART communication interface of the wireless adapter changes from a need dependent electrical current value which as a rule varies as a function of time of the starting phase to a fixed low electrical current value here 4 mA . For this the electrical current value used by the field device during the starting phase is monitored for when such changes to a constant electrical current of 4 mA compare I 4 mA in box . If is this still not the case waiting is continued compare WAIT in box and the monitoring of the electrical current value is continued. As soon as a constant electrical current of 4 mA is established the time period from turn on of the field device to this point in time is stored as T compare STORE T in box . T is in such case provided as auxiliary parameter in the wireless adapter. Directly after switching into normal operation or in given cases slightly later HART communication between the field device and the wireless adapter becomes possible via the HART communication interface. This is in the case of the present form of embodiment likewise checked directly after finding the electrical current value of 4 mA compare TEST HART in box . For this the wireless adapter can for example send an ongoing query to the field device and ascertain the point in time at which the field device first answers compare HART in box . If a HART communication is still not possible there is further waiting compare WAIT in box and the checking for HART communication is continued. As soon as HART communication is possible is the time period from turn on of the field device until such point in time is stored as TH which is provided as an auxiliary parameter in the wireless adapter compare STORE TH in box . The auxiliary parameters T and TH are provided in the case of the illustrated form of embodiment for determining the starting time TS. Preferably a user can perform no settings for these auxiliary parameters.

Field devices exist which already during the starting phase assume a constant electrical current value of for example 4 mA. Accordingly in the case of such field devices the switching into normal operation is not based on the electrical current value recognition. For such devices is in the case of the present form of embodiment the switching into normal operation is set equal to the point in time when HART communication is first possible. For this it is checked whether zero was registered as the time period for T compare T 0 in box . If this is the case then this indicates that the connected field device has assumed a constant electrical current value of 4 mA already in the starting phase. If is this case the time period registered for TH is adopted as the preliminary parameter setting for starting time TS compare TS TH in box . If a time period greater than zero was registered for T then the time period registered for T is adopted as the preliminary parameter setting for the starting time TS compare TS T in box .

The following steps serve for optimizing the operating voltage UO. First the currently set voltage U which is sufficient for normal operation and corresponds here to a default setting is stored as operating voltage UO compare STORE UO U in box . Then the set voltage U is reduced by a predetermined value compare U in box followed by waiting compare WAIT in box . In such case the operation of the field device is monitored for the occurrence of malfunctions respectively whether it is functioning OK. Especially it is checked here whether HART communication is possible compare HART in box whether a device crash of the field device occurs and or whether in the case of an electrical current flowing through the field device the electrical current value falls below a predetermined limit value compare FCT OK in box . If there is no malfunctioning then the above explained steps of storing the currently set voltage U as operating voltage UO and the reducing the set voltage U are performed anew and the above explained loop is run through anew compare the return arrow and the boxes and in . If in the step of monitoring a malfunction is detected which is caused by an insufficient energy supply of the field device NO below box then as parameter setting for the operating voltage UO the quantity last stored value plus a predetermined voltage value U as safety factor is stored compare STORE UO UO U in box .

Then the steps illustrated in can be performed for optimizing the starting voltage US and the starting time TS. For this the field device is first of all switched off and a restart performed compare RESTART in box . In such case the ascertained operating voltage UO value is applied as voltage value for the starting voltage US compare US UO in box . Time is measured from the point in time of the switching on or restart of the field device compare START TIME MEASUREMENT in box . There is then a waiting period until the time period ascertained for the auxiliary parameter TH runs out WAIT UNTIL T TH in box . To the extent that the field device properly passes through the starting phase and switches into normal operation then HART communication is possible between the field device and the wireless adapter. This is checked after expiration the time period TH compare TEST HART in box and HART in box . If HART communication is possible such means that the set value for starting voltage US was sufficient and thus the starting voltage required for the field device during the starting phase is smaller than or equal to the voltage value ascertained for the operating voltage UO. In this case the branch of the flow diagram shown in on the left side is traversed. If conversely HART communication is not possible such means that the set value for starting voltage US was not sufficient and thus the starting voltage required for the field device during the starting phase is greater than the voltage value ascertained for the operating voltage UO. In this case the branch shown in on the right side is traversed.

The left branch of the flow diagram of will now be explained. As parameter setting for starting time TS there is subtracted from the ascertained or measured time period TS compare a predetermined offset T compare TS TS T in box . This parameter setting is adopted for starting time TS. In this way also during the switching of the field device from the starting phase into normal operation a sufficient energy supply is assured even when the switching occurs not exactly at the expected point in time compare . Furthermore the previously set starting voltage in the case of which the starting phase was properly traversed is stored compare STORE US in box . Then the voltage is reduced compare U in box and the field device restarted with this setting for starting voltage compare RESTART in box . Time is measured rom the turn on or the restart of the field device compare START TIME MEASUREMENT in box . After expiration of the already ascertained starting time TS compare WAIT UNTIL T TS in box the already ascertained voltage value for operating voltage UO is set compare SET UO in box . After expiration of the time period TH which equals or in given cases is greater than TS compare WAIT UNTIL T TH in box it is checked whether HART communication is possible compare TEST HART in box . Along with that the manner of operation is also checked for the occurrence of additional malfunctions as was explained above with reference to box of compare HART FCT OK in box . In this way it can be detected whether the starting voltage was sufficiently high and the field device properly traversed the starting phase and switched into normal operation. If no malfunction is detected then the loop as explained is traversed anew compare the return arrow and the boxes and . Especially the above explained steps of storing the voltage value previously used as starting voltage and of the reducing the voltage value to be used as starting voltage for the next flow are performed. If the checking compare box finds a malfunction then stored as parameter setting for the starting voltage US is the last stored value plus a predetermined voltage value U as safety factor compare STORE US US U in box . The safety factor U for the starting voltage US must in such case not equal the safety factor U for the operating voltage UO.

The right branch of the flow diagram of will now be explained. As parameter setting for the starting time TS there is added to the ascertained or measured time period TS compare a predetermined offset T compare TS TS T in box . This parameter setting is adopted for starting time TS. In this way also during the switching of the field device from the starting phase into normal operation a sufficient energy supply is assured even when the switching does not occur exactly at the expected point in time compare . Furthermore the previously set starting voltage is increased and this voltage value stored as starting voltage compare U STORE US in box . The following performing of the restart and the traversing of the boxes and occurs in the manner related for the left Branch with reference to boxes and . If in checking the field device for malfunctions compare HART FCT OK in box a malfunction is detected then the loop is traversed anew compare the return arrow and the boxes and . Especially the steps of increasing the voltage value to be used as starting voltage for the next flow through and storing this changed voltage value as starting voltage are performed. If the checking finds no malfunction compare box then as already explained above there is stored as parameter setting for starting voltage US the last stored value plus a predetermined voltage value U as safety factor compare STORE US US U in box .

There then come the steps of which can be performed for optimizing the setup time period. For this a restart of the field device is performed wherein for starting voltage US the earlier ascertained parameter setting is applied compare START WITH US in box . After passing of the already ascertained starting time TS compare WAIT UNTIL T TS in box the already ascertained voltage value for the operating voltage UO is set compare SET UO in box . As was already explained above the field device can provide a valid measured value after the end of the starting time only after expiration of a time period referred to as the setup time period. For determining the setup time period T SET time after expiration of the starting time TS is measured compare START TIME MEASUREMENT OF T SET AFTER TS in box . Furthermore the wireless adapter sends an on going measured value query to the field device and checks at which point in time it first receives back a valid measured value i.e. a measured value with a correspondingly positive status information compare MEASURED VALUE VALID in box return arrow and WAIT in box . Before expiration of the field device type specific setup time period the field device cannot provide a valid measured value so that in response to the query it provides either no measured value or e.g. a measured value with a status BAD . As soon as the field device provides a valid measured value there is added to the time period measured from the expiration of the starting time TS until this point in time an offset T and this increased time period is stored as the parameter setting for the setup time period T SET compare STORE T SET T SET T in box . Therewith suitable parameter settings for all energy supply parameters provided in the wireless adapter starting voltage starting current starting time operating voltage and setup time period have been ascertained and the wireless adapter can now be operated with these parameters.

The present invention is not limited to the examples of embodiments explained with reference to the figures. Especially other auxiliary parameters here T and TH can be applied for determining the starting time. Furthermore the individual steps can be executed in other sequences. Especially the maximum electrical current used during the starting phase by the field device can also be measured when an optimized starting voltage has already been set e.g. in the case of the flow illustrated in . Furthermore parameter settings of a plurality of energy supply parameters can also be varied simultaneously.

