---

title: Traffic collision incident visualization with location context
abstract: A mapping data of a location associated with a traffic collision incident can be presented within an automobile incident application interface executing within a computing device. A visualization of the incident can be performed within the interface. The visualization can be a computer generated graphic re-creation of the incident having a starting location and a collision location associated with an object model. The object model can be a graphical representation of a vehicle. A user input can be received during the visualization. The user input can include manipulating the position of an object model presented upon the mapping data. The manipulation can be a translation, rotation, and/or scaling operation. The object model can be associated with visualization data which can link the object model with a heading and/or a track. The appropriate heading and track of the object model can be visually presented within the interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09087362&OS=09087362&RS=09087362
owner: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORPORATION
number: 09087362
owner_city: Armonk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101108
---
The present invention relates to the field of computer visualization and more particularly to traffic collision incident visualization with location context.

Currently when a traffic accident occurs there are many actions which can be performed to resolve the situation. One common action is filing an insurance claim about the accident to an appropriate insurance carrier. An insurance claim typically includes a description of the accident which must be described orally and or in writing. For example accident reports usually include a written description of an accident indicating relevant details of the accident.

In many instances such descriptions lack the context of the surrounding area and or road layouts present at the site of the accident. Occasionally road layouts can contribute to accidents which can be extremely relevant to insurance claims e.g. determining liability . Further descriptions typically do not allow the user to graphically represent the accident in a way that can be digitally accessed.

In some instances a drawing of the accident can be utilized to aid in describing the accident. The accident can be typically illustrated by an operator of a vehicle. However often times accurately portrayal surrounding areas and or road layouts can be difficult to obtain. This can be due to a number of reasons which can range from incomplete memory recall to unfamiliar surroundings. For example an insurance claim can be submitted several days from the actual accident occurrence which can result in the driver being unclear as to the exact surroundings.

A mapping data of a location associated with a traffic collision incident can be presented within an automobile incident application interface executing within a computing device. A visualization of the incident can be performed within the interface. The visualization can be a computer generated graphic re creation of the incident having a starting location and a collision location associated with an object model. The object model can be a graphical representation of a vehicle. A user input can be received during the visualization. The user input can include manipulating the position of an object model presented upon the mapping data. The manipulation can be a translation rotation and or scaling operation. The object model can be associated with visualization data which can link the object model with a heading and or a track. The appropriate heading and track of the object model can be visually presented within the interface.

The present disclosure is a solution for traffic collision incident visualization with location context. In the solution a traffic collision incident can be re created within an interface of an incident application executing within a computing device. The re creation can be a visualization permitting a simulation to be presented upon a map of the location where the incident occurred. That is the incident can be re created with location context enabling specific surrounding elements to be easily represented. In one instance the visualization can be a real time visualization constructed from user input. In the embodiment as a user moves a vehicle e.g. icon of a vehicle from a start position a visualization engine can render the icon with an appropriate route and orientation.

In one embodiment the incident application can be utilized upon a mobile computing device. In the embodiment the incident application can permit an incident visualization to be created immediately following an incident. For example a visualization can be added to an insurance claim which can be filed at the site of the incident.

In another embodiment the incident application can be executed upon a portable computing device e.g. laptop . In the embodiment an insurance agent can assist a policyholder in creating a visualization of an incident at the scene of the incident. For example an insurance agent can utilize a tablet computing device to create a visualization of an incident based on information provided by a policyholder.

The terminology used herein is for the purpose of describing particular embodiments only and is not intended to be limiting of the invention. As used herein the singular forms a an and the are intended to include the plural forms as well unless the context clearly indicates otherwise. It will be further understood that the terms comprises and or comprising when used in this specification specify the presence of stated features integers steps operations elements and or components but do not preclude the presence or addition of one or more other features integers steps operations elements components and or groups thereof.

The corresponding structures materials acts and equivalents of all means or step plus function elements in the claims below are intended to include any structure material or act for performing the function in combination with other claimed elements as specifically claimed. The description of the present invention has been presented for purposes of illustration and description but is not intended to be exhaustive or limited to the invention in the form disclosed. Many modifications and variations will be apparent to those of ordinary skill in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention. The embodiment was chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the invention and the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the invention for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated.

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the present invention may be embodied as a system method or computer program product. Accordingly the present invention may take the form of an entirely hardware embodiment an entirely software embodiment including firmware resident software micro code etc. or an embodiment combining software and hardware aspects that may all generally be referred to herein as a circuit module or system. Furthermore the present invention may take the form of a computer program product embodied in any tangible medium of expression having computer usable program code embodied in the medium.

Any combination of one or more computer usable or computer readable medium s may be utilized. The computer usable or computer readable medium may be for example but not limited to an electronic magnetic optical electromagnetic infrared or semiconductor system apparatus device or propagation medium. More specific examples a non exhaustive list of the computer readable medium would include the following an electrical connection having one or more wires a portable computer diskette a hard disk a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM an erasable programmable read only memory EPROM or Flash memory an optical fiber a portable compact disc read only memory CDROM an optical storage device a transmission media such as those supporting the Internet or an intranet or a magnetic storage device. Note that the computer usable or computer readable medium could even be paper or another suitable medium upon which the program is printed as the program can be electronically captured for instance via optical scanning of the paper or other medium then compiled interpreted or otherwise processed in a suitable manner if necessary and then stored in a computer memory. In the context of this document a computer usable or computer readable medium may be any medium that can contain store communicate propagate or transport the program for use by or in connection with the instruction execution system apparatus or device. The computer usable medium may include a propagated data signal with the computer usable program code embodied therewith either in baseband or as part of a carrier wave. The computer usable program code may be transmitted using any appropriate medium including but not limited to wireless wireline optical fiber cable RF etc.

Computer program code for carrying out operations of the present invention may be written in any combination of one or more programming languages including an object oriented programming language such as Java Smalltalk C or the like and conventional procedural programming languages such as the C programming language or similar programming languages. The program code may execute entirely on the user s computer partly on the user s computer as a stand alone software package partly on the user s computer and partly on a remote computer or entirely on the remote computer or server. In the latter scenario the remote computer may be connected to the user s computer through any type of network including a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN or the connection may be made to an external computer for example through the Internet using an Internet Service Provider .

The present invention is described below with reference to flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams of methods apparatus systems and computer program products according to embodiments of the invention. It will be understood that each block of the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams and combinations of blocks in the flowchart illustrations and or block diagrams can be implemented by computer program instructions. These computer program instructions may be provided to a processor of a general purpose computer special purpose computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to produce a machine such that the instructions which execute via the processor of the computer or other programmable data processing apparatus create means for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

These computer program instructions may also be stored in a computer readable medium that can direct a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to function in a particular manner such that the instructions stored in the computer readable medium produce an article of manufacture including instruction means which implement the function act specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

The computer program instructions may also be loaded onto a computer or other programmable data processing apparatus to cause a series of operational steps to be performed on the computer or other programmable apparatus to produce a computer implemented process such that the instructions which execute on the computer or other programmable apparatus provide processes for implementing the functions acts specified in the flowchart and or block diagram block or blocks.

As used herein an incident can be a traffic collision in which a vehicle collides with another entity. The entity can include but is not limited to a vehicle a pedestrian an animal road debris architectural obstacles geographical obstacles and the like. A vehicle can be a device utilized to transport people and or cargo. The vehicle can include but is not limited to automobiles motorcycles buses bicycles trains personal transporters boats and the like.

In step an incident application can be executed within a computing device. For example incident application can be a mobile enable application executing on a mobile phone. In step an interface of actions can be optionally presented. In one instance the interface can permit relevant actions to be performed including but not limited to creating an incident report calling an insurance agent photographing the incident and the like. In step an incident report can be initiated. The incident report can include an incident visualization.

In step the current location of the computing device can be determined. Location determination can be performed utilizing Global Positioning System GPS Assisted GPS A GPS and the like. In one instance location can be manually selected by a user. For example a user can enter the street address proximate to the location of an incident occurrence. In step mapping data is presented within the interface. Mapping data can include but is not limited to geographical data road map data survey map data and the like.

In step incident visualization can be initiated. Initiation can be automatically and or manually commenced. In one embodiment visualization can be automatically started when mapping data is presented within an interface. In another embodiment a user interface element can enable selective initiation of an incident visualization. For example a start button can be selected to initiate an incident visualization. In step a vehicle can be selected to be included into the visualization. The vehicle selection can be automatically and or manually selected. In one instance vehicle selection can be determined from application data e.g. user profile . For example the incident application can utilize automotive registration information to determine an appropriate vehicle. In another instance vehicle selection can be performed through a series of selection steps. For example a user can specify the make model and color of a vehicle.

In step the selected vehicle can be presented within the interface. The selected vehicle can be presented as a graphical object model such as a graphical icon. In one embodiment graphical icon customization can be optionally performed. For instance the graphical icon of the vehicle can be customized to various colors sizes e.g. enlargement reduction and the like. In step visualization of an incident can be performed using a selected vehicle. Visualization can be initiated through one or more triggers including but not limited to user input programmatic triggers and the like. User input can include vehicle selection vehicle manipulation e.g. movement and the like. In one instance visualization can begin when a user drags the vehicle across a touchscreen enabled interface. In one embodiment multi touch interfaces can support multiple selection and manipulation of vehicle. For example using two fingers a user can drag two vehicles into a collision path to create an incident visualization of an occurred accident.

In step if the current vehicle position is different from a historic position the method can continue to step else proceed to step . In step the route for each selected vehicle can be rendered based on the current and historic position change. For example based on position deltas the orientation and route of a vehicle can be rendered as an overlay on the mapping data within the interface. In step if the incident visualization is concluded the method can proceed to step else continue to step . In step if there are more vehicles associated with the incident the method can return to step else continue to step . In step if the incident visualization is confirmed the method can continue to step else return to step . In step the incident report can be communicated to an incident server. The report can be communicated utilizing traditional and or proprietary mechanisms.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. In one embodiment incident application can include a software wizard able to guide a user through creating a visualization of an incident. It should be appreciated that a user of the incident application can include policyholders insurance agents and the like.

In interface an incident visualization can be configured through selection and position of each object model e.g. vehicle associated with the incident. In interface manipulation of each model can be recorded to enable a re creation to be generated. In one embodiment the visualization can be created in real time and presented within interface . It should be appreciated that interface can appear in succession of interface . For example interface can be presented during user input capture of a visualization re creation.

In one instance interfaces can be a set of screens e.g. wizard of an incident reporting application provided an insurance agency. In the instance insurance agency specific instructions e.g. policy requirements can be presented during the visualization creation process.

In interface an incident visualization can be created utilizing interface elements . Interface can include but is not limited to map object model e.g. graphical vehicle representations interface elements e.g. push buttons and the like. In one embodiment object model can be graphical icons having approximate appearance to each vehicle associated with an incident. For example model can be an icon of a sports utility vehicle SUV and model can be an icon of a sedan. Interface elements can enable manipulation of visualization and visualization elements.

In one instance interface can respond to input gestures including but not limited to zoom drag and drop rotate and the like. In the instance model can be manipulated by interacting directly with the model e.g. via touch . In another instance interface can utilize but is not limited to keyboard input pointer input and the like.

In map relevant roadway features e.g. road layout can be presented. Map can include but is not limited to surface roads highways pavements medians guard rails crosswalks bicycle lanes bridges tunnels geographical elements e.g. lakes environmental objects. Environmental objects can include but is not limited to pedestrians traffic cones bollards Fitch barriers road debris gates fences fire hydrants utility objects e.g. telephone poles and the like. Map can be associated with a geographic coordinate system Cartesian coordinate system grid and the like. In one embodiment map can be associated with an internal coordinate system enabling waypointing routing and the like. It should be appreciated map can be obtained from one or more sources including but not limited to GOOGLE MAPS MAPQUEST and the like.

In one instance map can be a two dimensional geometrically accurate representation of a three dimensional space. In another instance map can be a three dimensional geometrically accurate representation of a three dimensional space. In one embodiment map can be a road map of an area associated with an incident. In the embodiment map can present road names road layout and the like. In another embodiment map can be a satellite map of an area associated with an incident.

Object model can be presented within map upon selection. In one instance model can be distinguished from each other. In the instance each model can be associated with visual and or aural properties including but not limited to color size shape sound effect shading borders and the like. For example the vehicle of a policyholder utilizing interface can be surrounded by a border having diagonal lines. In one embodiment the object model of a vehicle owned by a user e.g. policyholder interacting with the re creation can be distinguished e.g. colored border from other vehicles. In one embodiment positioning of object model can be aided by drawing features including but not limited to object snap grid overlays and the like. For example as a user moves a vehicle along road the vehicle path can horizontally snap to road lines within map .

Waypoint can be an point of interest associated with each model within a visualization. In one embodiment waypoint can indicate an initial starting location for each model . In one instance multiple waypoints can be established for each model . In the instance waypoints can be used to indicate directional changes e.g. change in orientation velocity adjustments e.g. complete stop and the like.

Route can be a path of a model established from waypoint to a user determined location. Route can be a line segment which can be linear curved and the like. Route can be visually represented as a continuous line dashed line dotted line and the like. For example route can be presented as a line trailing object indicating a direction of travel. Route can be associated with graphical properties including but not limited to color shapes and the like. Route can be created when manipulation of object model occurs. In one instance route can be a series of visually connected waypoints. In one embodiment route can be generated using algorithm . In the embodiment algorithm can determine an object orientation e.g. direction of travel and or a route from a selected waypoint. In one instance route can be rendered having a parallel alignment to a road. In the instance route can be rendered within roadway lines of map indicating the path taken by object .

Element can permit the inclusion of one or more object models e.g. vehicles to be visualized within the re creation. When interaction with element occurs an appropriate object model can be presented within map . In one instance the object model can be presented in a default location e.g. top left hand corner when element is selected. In another instance user input can be required to place the object model within a location on map . In one embodiment element can present a user interface permitting selection and or management of object models. In the embodiment a user interface with object model management options can be presented. For example a pop up dialog can permit addition editing and deletion of object models within map .

Element can enable user input to be captured to create an incident visualization. Selection of element can trigger capturing of vehicle motion as determined by user input. In one instance interaction with element can permit movement of object models within map . That is prior to interaction with element object model positions can be locked rendering the models immutable e.g. immovable . In one instance selection of element can present interface . In the instance interface element can be utilized to terminate input capture.

Element can be a user input artifact allowing the visualization to be restarted from a restore point. The restore point can be application defined user defined e.g. user configuration settings and the like. In one instance the restore point can include the first object model position and state. For example vehicle and vehicle states e.g. route waypoint excluding the first vehicle e.g. vehicle can be removed.

Element can be a user input artifact enabling location selection of an incident occurrence. Element can permit the location map to be modified rapidly which can result in replacement of map with a different map. In one instance interaction with element can present a location selection interface. For example element can return a user to a location selection portion of an incident application.

In one embodiment interface can be present playback controls associated with a completed visualization. In the embodiment playback controls can include but is not limited to play record stop pause rewind fastforward and the like. For example upon completion of a visualization a user can playback the visualization to ensure accuracy of the re creation.

Interface can be an optional interface which can be presented during a visualization re creation process. Interface can lack elements and present interface element . When a visualization is completed element can permit termination of the visualization. For example when a user illustrates crash within map the user can select button to end user input capture. In one instance interface elements can be presented within interface and element can be absent. In another instance interface can be presented upon selection of element . In yet another instance a different interface can be presented enabling user submission of the visualization to an insurance entity.

In one embodiment a collision can be automatically detected e.g. collision detection algorithm and a visual graphic can be presented. For example a collision graphic e.g. star can be presented when two or more models are detected to be in collision. In another embodiment a collision graphic can be manually selected to indicate proximate location of damage to a vehicle.

Algorithm can be an exemplary computer functionality for rendering an object model orientation and or route. Algorithm can include but is not limited to code blocks and the like. Algorithm can receive user input which can be utilized to determine an object model position. In one embodiment algorithm can be a portion of a line drawing algorithm an application programming interface API an application functionality and the like. In one instance algorithm can be a portion of a Web enabled service.

In block a change in position of model can be determined utilizing position data. Position data can include but is not limited to historic position current position and the like. In one instance block can calculate a change in an x and y position. In the instance a current x and y position is subtracted from a historic x and y position.

In block the orientation of a model can be programmatically determined based on one or more threshold values. The block can calculate a degree value associated with the rotation of an object model. In one instance if the x e.g. dx and y e.g. dy deltas are greater than a predefined value e.g. rotLat the orientation of the model can be calculated. In the instance the predefined value can be a rotational value a distance value and the like.

In block the route of a model can be displayed within an interface. In one instance a circle can be presented at a start location which can be connected to a line following a user input. For example as a user drags an object model a line can be drawn between a starting point and a current position of the object model.

It should be appreciated that algorithm can execute in real time to produce dynamic and user interactive orientation routing and presentation functionality. That is as a user interacts with an object model algorithm can capture user input and render an appropriate orientation and or route in real time or near real time.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. It should be appreciated that interfaces can include additional elements including but not limited to images text user interface elements and the like. Interface elements can include but is not limited to push buttons checkboxes radio dialogs and the like. Interface functionality can be accessible via a drop down menu context menu and the like. It should be appreciated that the disclosure is not limited to two vehicles and can include an arbitrary quantity of vehicles.

In one embodiment additional object models can be presented and manipulated within interface . Additional object models can include but is not limited to pedestrians signage debris and the like.

Incident report can be a user generated digital artifact associated with an incident occurrence. Report can include insurance information including but not limited to Incident report can be a document a series of documents an archive and the like. In one instance incident report can include an incident report e.g. text description photographs visualization data visualization and the like. In one embodiment report can be an ADOBE PORTABLE DOCUMENT FORMAT PDF document.

Incident application can be a software application permitting incident visualization to be created. Application can include but is not limited to incident engine interface and the like. Application can be a mobile application Web based application desktop application and the like. In one instance incident application can be a portion of an incident reporting application permitting creation of an incident report . In the instance visualization data and or visualization can be associated with an incident report which can be conveyed to an incident server .

Incident engine can be a software component permitting an incident visualization re creation process to occur. Engine can include but is not limited to visualization engine pathing engine visualization data settings . In one instance engine can be a component of server enabling visualization to be created remotely. In the instance data can be communicated to server which can generate visualization and convey the visualization to interface . Engine can be a stand alone component a component of a distributed computing environment a network computing environment a cloud computing environment and the like.

Visualization engine can be a software entity permitting generation and or management of visualization . Engine can render visualization within interface . Engine can manipulate two dimensional geometric models text digital images and the like. Engine can support object manipulation including but not limited to translation rotation scaling and the like. Engine can provide playback and or management functionality associated with visualization .

Pathing engine can be utilized to determine orientation and or route of an object model within visualization . Engine can respond to user input based on one or more threshold values. In one instance threshold values can be configured to determine forward movement backward movement rotation and the like. For example when a user drags an object model more than ten pixels engine can calculate an appropriate route and orientation for the object model. Engine can utilize one or more control points to determine orientation. Control points can include but is not limited to a waypoint a magnetic pole and the like. Engine can utilize traditional and or proprietary algorithms e.g. algorithm to perform orientation and or route determination. In one instance engine can be a line drawing algorithm including but not limited to Digital Differential Analyzer Bresenham line algorithm and the like.

Visualization data can be one or more datasets associated with a visualization . Data can be a digital artifact e.g. document including but not limited to visualization information mapping data insurance information personal information vehicle registration information and the like. Visualization information can include but is not limited to waypoints routes timing data. Mapping data can include but is not limited to latitude coordinates longitude coordinates and the like. Insurance information can include but is not limited to policy identifier insurance carrier identifier insurance claim type and the like. Personal information can include but is not limited to policyholder name mailing address contact information and the like. Data can conform to but is not limited to Extensible Markup Language GPS Exchange Format GPX and the like. In one instance data can be associated with security mechanisms. For example data can be automatically encrypted prior to transmission via email.

Settings can be one or more configuration options for controlling the behavior of engine . Settings can include but is not limited to user established settings heuristically determined settings and the like. Settings can control mapping data source mapping data presentation visualization data formats visualization rendering communication settings and the like. Communication settings can include but is not limited to transmission format communication medium transmission protocols security settings and the like. Communication medium can include but is not limited to electronic mail Multimedia Messaging Service and the like.

Visualization can be one or more graphical formats including but not limited to raster graphics vector graphics and the like. In one embodiment visualization can include sophisticated graphic techniques e.g. photo realistic graphics including but not limited to ray tracing shading texture mapping anti aliasing and the like. Visualization can include visual effects including but not limited to two dimensional effects e.g. still image graphics three dimensional graphics e.g. fire animation and the like. Visualization format can conform to one or more traditional and or proprietary formats. Formats can include but is not limited to Motion Picture Experts Group 4 MPEG 4 Motion Joint Photographic Experts Group M JPEG Audio Video Interleave AVI and the like.

Interface can be a hardware software component for presenting visualization . Interface can be associated with incident application operating system input device display and the like. Interface can be a desktop computing interface Web based interface mobile application interface and the like. In one instance interface can be a Web browser capable of presenting visualization and or report .

Computing device can be a hardware software entity able to execute an incident application . Device can include but is not limited to hardware software and the like. Device can be but is not limited to desktop computer laptop computer mobile phone portable digital assistant PDA portable media player tablet computing device and the like. Device can be communicatively linked to additional components including but not limited to location service components presence service components automotive global positioning system GPS devices and the like.

Hardware can be electronic physical components for executing software and constituent components. Hardware can include but is not limited to processor non volatile memory volatile memory bus display input device GPS receiver transceiver and the like. Hardware components can be distributed among one or more devices. For example GPS receiver can be a portion of an automotive GPS device.

Processor can be a portion of a computing system able to execute instructions of a computing program. Processor can include but is not limited to central processing unit CPU microprocessor graphics processing unit GPU physics processing unit PPU and the like. In one embodiment processor can be a graphics processing unit able to create visualization in real time. In the embodiment processor can enable playback and management of visualization .

Non volatile memory can be a static storage medium for persisting data and or visualization . Memory can include but is not limited to flash memory hard disk drive and the like. In one instance memory can be a removable memory component enabling visualization to be easily exported and or transferred. In the embodiment memory can store visualization in one or more proprietary and or traditional media formats.

Volatile memory can be a dynamic storage medium for temporarily persisting data and or visualization . Memory can include but is not limited to random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM static RAM SRAM and the like. In one embodiment memory can temporarily store data during user input capture of a visualization re creation.

Bus can be an interconnected subsystem for communicatively linking components . Bus can be serial and or parallel permitting high speed communications to and from components . In one instance bus can communicate user input from display and or device to components .

Display can be an electronic visual display permitting presentation of visualization data visualization and or report . Display can be one or more proprietary and or traditional technologies including but not limited to Liquid Crystal Display LCD Organic Light Emitting Diode OLED Active Matrix OLED AMOLED and the like. Display can include proprietary and or traditional touch sensitive capabilities. Proprietary and or traditional touch sensitive capabilities can include but is not limited to capacitive sensing resistive sensing and the like.

Input device can be a human interface device capable of receiving user input for a visualization . Input device can be but is not limited to alphanumeric keyboard keypad mouse omni directional ball joystick stylus and the like. In one instance input device can be a component of display .

GPS receiver can be a device able to receive GPS data based on an automatically determined the location or a user specified location. GPS data can include but is not limited to mapping data GPS coordinate data and the like. In one instance GPS receiver can be an external device communicatively linked to device .

Transceiver can be a component permitting communication between one or more external entities. In one instance transceiver can be a Radio Frequency RF transceiver. Transceiver can permit communication of incident report to incident server .

Software can be a set of components for enabling interaction with interface visualization and or incident report . Software can include but is not limited to operating system incident application .

Operating system can be a software entity permitting execution of incident application . Operating system can include but is not limited to non real time operating systems real time operating systems and the like.

Network can be one or more computing network components permitting direct and or indirect communication between computing device and incident server . Network can include wired networking components wireless networking components and any combination thereof. Network can include public networks private networks virtual private networks and the like. In one instance network can be the Internet.

Drawings presented herein are for illustrative purposes only and should not be construed to limit the invention in any regard. In one instance incident engine can be a component of a remote system e.g. incident server . In the instance visualization data can be communicated to a remote system which can render the data into a visualization . In one embodiment mapping data utilized by engine can be obtained from server . In the embodiment mapping data within data store can be selectively communicated to device when necessary. It should be noted that server can be an optional component of system .

The flowchart and block diagrams in the illustrate the architecture functionality and operation of possible implementations of systems methods and computer program products according to various embodiments of the present invention. In this regard each block in the flowchart or block diagrams may represent a module segment or portion of code which comprises one or more executable instructions for implementing the specified logical function s . It should also be noted that in some alternative implementations the functions noted in the block may occur out of the order noted in the figures. For example two blocks shown in succession may in fact be executed substantially concurrently or the blocks may sometimes be executed in the reverse order depending upon the functionality involved. It will also be noted that each block of the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration and combinations of blocks in the block diagrams and or flowchart illustration can be implemented by special purpose hardware based systems that perform the specified functions or acts or combinations of special purpose hardware and computer instructions.

