---

title: Apparatus and method for receiving electromagnetic waves using photonics
abstract: An apparatus and method for receiving electromagnetic waves using photonics includes a transmission unit transmitting electromagnetic waves in intervals; a time delay unit coupled to the transmission unit and controlling the transmission unit to transmit the electromagnetic waves in the intervals; an antenna receiving the electromagnetic waves reflected from the target; an interferoceiver coupled to the antenna and receiving the electromagnetic waves from the antenna, the interferoceiver comprising an optical recirculation loop to produce replica electromagnetic waves; and a computer identifying the target from the reflected electromagnetic waves.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08228228&OS=08228228&RS=08228228
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08228228
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100406
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 168 037 filed on Apr. 9 2009 the complete disclosure of which in its entirety is herein incorporated by reference.

The embodiments described herein may be manufactured used and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties thereon.

The embodiments herein generally relate to receiving electromagnetic waves and more particularly to receiving electromagnetic waves using photonics.

Radar along with its applications and uses are manifold. Invented in the 1940 s and continually refined over the previous decades radar continues to be the most useful and practical means for a host of applications including tracking aircraft and other aerial born objects. In the past tracking of aerial targets such as aircraft or missiles has been achieved with basic or conventional radar. Types of radar used in the past included various types of Pulsed Doppler coupled with moving target indication receivers inverse synthetic aperture radar and radar ranging types of radars. The application of radar has typically been for the purpose of searching tracking selecting and identifying sundry targets through the use of superheterodyne radar receivers. While the same radar equipment of the past are still commonly used today today s equipment is now coupled with fast computers and digitizers that help to display information more accurately and accelerate data handling.

Problems with present radar and electronic warfare technologies include such issues as range inaccuracy Doppler range ambiguity fratricides due to radar misinterpretation error excessive clutter contamination and inter system interference and low ballistic missile interception rate. These issues originate from superheterodyne down conversion commonly used in conventional radio frequency receivers. In particular superheterodyne down conversion requires numerous pulses for tracking targets. However environments and practical conditions change with time. Numerous pulses lead to time average and blurring a process that masks the pertinent information and contributes to the issues with conventional radio frequency receivers cited above.

For example a conventional Pulsed Doppler radar receiver typically requires numerous transmitted pulses to achieve a correlation however radar targets continuously change their motions. The requirement of numerous pulses leads to motion blurring. In addition due to motion blurring target velocities become almost impossible to measure accurately and precisely. Moreover the micro Doppler signatures typically cannot be clearly and distinctively revealed by conventional radar systems. With micro Doppler signatures the pulses of interest are usually only instantaneously available. The complete and faithful digitization is almost impossible to achieve with the current limitations of conventional radio frequency receivers.

Other limitations of conventional radio frequency receivers include relying on higher speed and higher bandwidth capable technologies relying on a higher number of bits in an analog to digital converter and relying on faster processing digital electronics to improve overall performance. However this approach to improve the overall performance of the receivers may reach a physical performance limit soon.

In view of the foregoing an embodiment herein provides a system for detecting and tracking a target reflecting electromagnetic waves transmitting from the system the system comprising a transmission unit transmitting electromagnetic waves in intervals a time delay unit coupled to the transmission unit and controlling the transmission unit to transmit the electromagnetic waves in the intervals an antenna receiving the electromagnetic waves reflected from the target an interferoceiver coupled to the antenna and receiving the electromagnetic waves from the antenna the interferoceiver comprising an optical recirculation loop to produce replica electromagnetic waves and a computer identifying the target from the reflected electromagnetic waves.

In such a system the interferoceiver may comprise a photodetector to convert optical input to radio frequency output and to determine a difference between the transmitted electromagnetic waves and the reflected electromagnetic waves. Such a system may further comprise a time gate coupled to the transmission unit and the antenna and comprising a gate wherein the transmission unit transmits trigger electromagnetic waves to the time gate in trigger intervals and the time gate upon receiving the trigger electromagnetic waves opens the gate to allow throughput of received electromagnetic waves received from the antenna. Moreover the optical recirculation loop may comprise an optical path length adjuster and the optical path length adjuster may comprise a dispersion compensation unit to reduce the relative traveling length variations due to different wavelengths of the transmitted electromagnetic waves and the reflected electromagnetic waves. Furthermore the optical recirculation loop may comprise an electronic switch controlled by the computer. Additionally the optical recirculation loop may comprise an optical path length random perturbation modulator to reduce the resonance effect on the noise signal in the optical recirculation loop. Moreover the optical path length random perturbation modulator may comprise at least one of an optical phase shifter modulator and a fiber stretcher. In addition the optical recirculation loop may comprise an optical amplifier and an optical isolator connected in series to amplify the electromagnetic waves. Furthermore the optical amplifier may comprise an erbium doped fiber amplifier. In addition the computer may comprise a Fourier transform unit to transform the electromagnetic waves from a time domain to a frequency domain and to obtain a Doppler shift and micro Doppler sidebands of a the target.

Another embodiment herein provides an interferoceiver apparatus comprising a first input a second input a combiner combining the first input and the second input an optical recirculation loop coupled to the combiner a splitter coupled to the optical recirculation loop to produce a first splitter output and a second splitter output a first photodetector coupled to the first splitter output a second photodetector coupled to the second splitter output a multiplexer circuit coupled to the first photodetector and the second photodetector producing a correlated output a filter coupled to the multiplexer circuit to process the correlated output and a analog to digital converter coupled to the filter to digitize the filtered output.

Such an apparatus may further comprise a radio frequency RF directional coupler coupled to receive input from the first splitter output. In addition such an apparatus may further comprise an electronic servo coupled to the RF directional coupler and an optical amplifier in the optical recirculation loop wherein the electronic servo controls the optical amplifier. In addition such an apparatus may further comprise a radio frequency RF phase shifter coupled to at least one of the first photodetector and the second photodetector. Moreover the multiplexer circuit may comprise at least one of a radio frequency RF mixer and a 2 1 RF combiner. Additionally the multiplexer circuit may comprise a Square Low RF detector. Furthermore the Square Low RF detector may comprise a Low Barrier Schottky diode. In addition the filter may comprise a low pass radio frequency RF filter. Moreover such an apparatus may further comprise a gate coupled to the combiner and the optical recirculation loop a switch coupled to the optical recirculation loop and an electronic control device to control the gate and switch.

Another embodiment herein provides a method of detecting a target through electromagnetic waves the method comprising transmitting a radio frequency RF pulse the RF pulse transmitted by an RF transmission unit providing a secondary RF pulse transmitted by the RF transmission unit and timed to arrive at a time gate when an antenna receives a received RF pulse modulating a first optical carrier with the received RF pulse providing a reference RF pulse comprising a second optical carrier conditioning the received RF pulse and the reference RF pulse in an optical recirculation loop to produce optical pulse replicas providing photodetectors to receive the optical pulse replicas and produce RF pulse replicas providing a multiplexer circuit coupled to the photodetectors to produce a correlated output providing a filter coupled to the multiplexer circuit to process the correlated output providing an analog to digital converter coupled to the filter to digitize the filtered output and processing the digitized filtered output via a computing device to detect the target.

These and other aspects of the embodiments herein will be better appreciated and understood when considered in conjunction with the following description and the accompanying drawings. It should be understood however that the following descriptions while indicating preferred embodiments and numerous specific details thereof are given by way of illustration and not of limitation. Many changes and modifications may be made within the scope of the embodiments herein without departing from the spirit thereof and the embodiments herein include all such modifications.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

The embodiments herein provide a new pulse Doppler radar architecture and configuration that uses an RF Photonic interferoceiver to perform an analog true time domain correlation of the received RE signal pulse in a hardware circuitry. In contrast with conventional radar technology an interferometric receiver requires only a single pulse. Single pulsing makes masking disappear and avoids the need for time averages which leads to blurring. In addition embodiments herein provide a signal alignment synchronization mechanism that allows a received pulse to be aligned in time with a reference pulse at the input of the RF Photonic correlation receiver or recirculation loop. Moreover the embodiments herein provide mechanisms to overcome loop instabilities and noises and reduce resonant noise in the loop by preventing unwanted resonance for circulating signals. The embodiments herein permit air traffic control with more precision to detect when one airplane is behind another airplane and determine distance and velocity difference of the two airplanes. Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to where similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the figures there are shown preferred embodiments.

As shown in lasers and are then combined by a wavelength division multiplex WDM combiner via optical fiber or another optical low loss waveguide. The frequency difference between and is preferable larger than the RF microwave operation frequencies and its bandwidth. After WDM combiner the modulated laser lights are sent to an optical gate which operates as a high speed optical switch that produces a pair of RF modulated optical pulses for an optical recirculation loop . An optional fiber polarizer can be placed before optical gate if necessary. In addition optical gate is connected to a first input of a 2 2 optical coupler that is used in optical recirculation loop . The optical recirculation loop is formed by connecting one output of 2 2 optical coupler with a second input of 2 2 coupler with several optical recirculation components inserted in between. For example the optical components in recirculation loop may include an optical isolator optical amplifier e.g. an erbium doped fiber amplifier EDFA and a second optical isolator connected in series for necessary amplification of the optical pulse. The output of the second isolator is connected to a WDM splitter which route the pulses pair into two separated paths by the two different wavelength and of laser and . While not shown in WDM splitter may include wavelength filters to filter out optical noise produced by optical amplifier . Moreover additional filters e.g. filter may be added at the outputs of WDM splitter .

As shown in an optical path length adjuster with a dispersion compensation unit may be inserted in one of the optical paths to reduce the relative traveling length variations due to different wavelengths e.g. wavelengths and between the two pulses therefore compensate the optical paths length difference between the two pulses in the whole loop. By carrying the received RF pulse and reference RF pulse between two optical carriers of close but different wavelengths and sending them into the sample long fiber loop and amplified same optical amplifier and using wavelength division multiplex to separate them for only a short distance to compensate the dispersion via dispersion compensation unit this will allow most noise generated in the loop to be canceled at the end therefore minimizing the instability of the long fiber and noise generated by the optical amplifier. These variations might be caused by fiber dispersion and unequal physical loop lengths. The presence of variations can cause contaminations on Doppler measurements and micro Doppler signatures. After the optional optical path length adjuster the two optical paths produced by WDM splitter are then connected into two inputs of a WDM combiner . A high speed optical switch is coupled to WDM combiner to filter out any light noise outside of the switching window that let the optical pulses passing though.

As further shown in switch is connected to an optical polarization controller that is connected to the second input of the 2 2 coupler to close recirculation loop . Switch is controlled by an electronic control circuit that synchronizes with the control of optical gate through an electronic control circuit driver before the loop. In addition central computer has access to electronic control circuit and optical gate through electronic control circuit driver .

As described in further detail below includes input pulse pair not shown before optical recirculation loop and output pulse replica pairs not shown after optical recirculation loop . At the second output of the 2 2 coupler a WDM splitter can be connected to split the pulse pairs. The outputs of WDM splitter may then be connected to photodetectors which convert the RF modulated optical pulse signals from optical recirculation loop into RF electronic pulse signals to form two branches of RF electronic paths. Thus for the nreplica pair Doppler shifts caused by motions of a target will lead to phase differences among the members in the pair. The differences are a function of the nreplica number. Moreover RF amplifiers may be added after photodetectors to amplify the RF pulse signals. Although not shown in an optional optical amplifier may also be connected to a second output of the 2 2 coupler .

As described above optical pulse replica pairs shown in are produced by optical recirculation loop in a time series. The produced optical replica pairs shown in propagate through photodetectors and are converted to replica pairs shown in of the original input RF and reference pulses. These replica pairs shown in are correlated at a nonlinear device . A small portion of the RF pulse signals can be taped using a RF directional coupler from one or both branches to monitor the pulse replicas shown in produced by optical recirculation loop and used in an electronic servo that provides feedback and controls the gain of optical amplifier in optical recirculation loop . In addition an optional RF phase shifter can be added in one of the branch to set a phase adjustment to compensate the phase between the two replicas of each pair. The two branches are connected to a RF electronic multiplexer circuit to multiply each pulse pairs shown in where multiplexer circuit multiplies the two inputs RF signal. Multiplexer circuit may include for example an RF mixer or a 2 1 RF combiner followed by a Square Low RF detector e.g. Low Barrier Schottky diode . Additionally a low pass RF filter is connected at the output of multiplexer circuit to filter out all the high frequency components produced by multiplexer circuit .

Low pass RF filter produces low frequency or baseband beating signals plus the DC signals that contain the correlation data. The beating signals and correlation data are sent to an analog to digital converter ADC and subsequently provided as input to central computer . Central computer may further process the data for example a Fourier transformation may be performed via a Fourier transform unit not shown to transform the series of beating pulse signals from time domain to the frequency domain and therefore obtain the Doppler shift and micro Doppler sidebands of a moving target.

Also shown in are several optional components to radar system . For example an optical path length random perturbation modulator device which may include an optical phase shifter modulator or fiber stretcher may be added to optical recirculation loop to reduce the resonance effect on the noise signal in optical recirculation loop . In addition a ring laser loop and WDM splitter may be added in optical recirculation loop to stabilize optical amplifier by introducing a third laser lasing a third wavelength through ring laser loop where the third laser is lasing in CW mode. Furthermore while not shown in lasers and can be replaced by two laser transmitters laser modulator with wavelengths and respectively. With two laser transmitters instead of using a reference signal from stable oscillator a time delayed copy of transmitted RF pulse with any waveform may be used as input at optical modulator .

The radar system described in can operate in two modes 1 Searching mode for searching tracking selecting and prioritizing targets of interest 2 High resolution mode for precision Doppler detection and micro Doppler identification. However the embodiments herein are not limited to this division of modes there may be other mode variations as well.

For example radar system can scan in one or two directions for searching targets. When a target s is located in a particular range and angle bearing with the help of interferoceiver the target s of interest may be selected and prioritized. Then radar system with the help of interferoceiver again switches into a high resolution Doppler detection and micro Doppler identification mode to measure the precise Doppler and micro Doppler signature of selected the target s according to a priority.

Simultaneously for each pulse transmitted radar system produces a series of secondary pulses to be sent into time delay unit shown in . Time delay unit shown in is programmed such that a pulse meets the receiving antennas gate not shown in time delay unit so as to be reflected from a predetermined target range. In particular time delay unit and receiving antennas gate are programmed to open for a specific time interval such that the series of secondary pulses cover the various distance ranges.

For example RF radar pulse transmission device may produce a series of K secondary trigger pulses where K is an integer and K T. These trigger pulses are sequentially delayed individually for different delay time by time delay unit such that each pulse will reach the receiving antenna s gate to meet a received pulse reflected from a predetermined target range I where i is an integer 1

If at one of the distance ranges a target e.g. target is presented the reflected pulse from the target received by receiving antenna will pass through time gate which was opened by secondary trigger pulse signal sent by time delay unit . Interferoceiver subsequently receives an input pulse from time gate .

While in search mode an input pulse may only make few cycles of recirculation within optical recirculation loop to produce few pulse pair replicas i.e. 10 to 100 replica pairs as needed to detect the target in a very short time interval that is controlled by coupler in optical recirculation loop as shown in . This time interval may be smaller than the secondary trigger pulses time interval T therefore the replicas from the first input pulse pair in the loop may not meet the second input pulse pair.

If there is no moving target or only a background object is presented at one the distance range central computer can easily rule out the clutters or noises. For moving targets central computer may provide the coarse Doppler shifts. Thereafter targets of interest can be selected according to measured Doppler shifts. Tracking of these targets with sequential transmitted pulses will provide their Doppler shift variations. Central computer can then prioritize these targets of interest by Doppler shifts and Doppler shift variations.

Normally the total processing time interval for optical recirculation loop to produce necessary number of replica to resolve a target e.g. target is larger than the range time interval e.g. T so multiple transmission pulses with a very large time interval T T can be used to further divide distribute the total search time in one direction by multiple pulses such that only a few ranges are searched using one transmission pulse. For example with two transmission pulses odd number ranges are searched by the first pulses and even number of ranges are searched by the second pulses therefore one can increase the processing time for each range by 2 T.

If the target cross section is too small or slow moving or there is too much clutter multiple transmitted pulses can also be used to help find the target with timeframe update.

The total numbers of distance range and or range intervals can be dynamically changed or programmed as well as the number of transmitted pulses to be used in the search with time intervals distribution and pulse width can be dynamically changed as desired. This dynamic change allows the system to perform coarse searches and fine searches alternately in order to find the target in a shorter time for different field condition.

Once a target of interest is chosen from the priority list radar system may stop the searching mode and switch to the high resolution mode for high precision Doppler shift and micro Doppler identification measurements. When operating in high resolution mode the target range may be known.

In high resolution mode central computer sends a trigger pulse to RF radar pulse transmission device to send a new or two for time updated signal transmitted RF pulse s with the same or different pulse width than for example the search mode described above. Simultaneously RF radar pulse transmission device produces a secondary trigger pulses to be sent into time delay unit for the time delay equivalent to the round trip RF pulse travel time from antenna to the target e.g. target . Therefore the delayed trigger pulse will reach time gate to meet a received pulse reflected from the target.

The rest of the process is similar to that described above except the input pulse not shown may circulate in optical recirculation loop for a longer time i.e. 0.1 to 1 second to produce a very large number of pulse replicas i.e. 3000 30 000 replicas . Therefore after the Fourier transformation from time domain to frequency domain micro Doppler side bands can be resolved with a resolution as high as Hz scale.

In addition the embodiments described herein may be used to collect micro Doppler data from existing known targets to form a data bank. Subsequently when micro Doppler data has been collected from an unknown target e.g. target in the field the micro Doppler data from the unknown target can be compared with the data bank to improve identification of the unknown target.

As described above the embodiments herein demonstrate the construction and operation with many possible hardware configurations and with many possible component choices that solve the problems in convention radar systems. The embodiments described herein use optical fiber recirculation loops e.g. optical recirculation loop to overcome the limitations of conventional technology and cross correlates the numerous replicas e.g. pulse replicas as produced by the loops to replicas e.g. RF pulse replicas from a copy of the originally transmitted radar pulse. After the time domain cross correlation a Fourier transformation e.g. from Fourier transform unit from the time domain to the frequency domain may be performed to obtain the Doppler shift and micro Doppler signatures of a moving target e.g. target . In addition the embodiments described herein offer improvements over conventional radar systems because by adding a reference RF signal carried by a different optical carrier e.g. carriers and in parallel with input optically carried RF signal pulse to a single fiber recirculation loop e.g. optical recirculation loop through wave length division multiplexing devices e.g. multiplexer circuit . Therefore the noise generated by the optical loop for both pulse pair are mostly coherent and can be canceled later on by beating the signal with the reference. In addition to using time domain and wavelength domain filtering e.g. filter to suppress loop noise generated by the spontaneous emission of fiber amplifier e.g. optical amplifier and using an optical path perturbation device e.g. perturbation modulator device in the loop embodiments described can further reduce the noise and instability of the optical pulse recirculation loop e.g. optical recirculation loop .

The foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

