---

title: Token-activated, federated access to social network information
abstract: Methods, apparatuses and systems directed to federated access to social networking information of a user initiated upon activation of a physical access token. A user may initiate a workflow, by activating a physical token, that establishes a federated access session between a third-party system and a social networking system to allow the third-party system to augment the user's experience with social networking information without the user directly accessing either the third-party system or the social networking system.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09307034&OS=09307034&RS=09307034
owner: Facebook, Inc.
number: 09307034
owner_city: Menlo Park
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100413
---
The present disclosure relates generally to social networking websites and other systems in which users can form connections with other users and in particular to integration of network based social network system functions and information with real world physical objects and systems such as locations points of sale and the like.

Social networks or social utilities that track and enable connections between users including people businesses and other entities have become prevalent in recent years. In particular social networking websites allow users to communicate information more efficiently. For example a user may post contact information background information job information hobbies and or other user specific data to a location associated with the user on a social networking website. Other users can then review the posted data by browsing user profiles or searching for profiles including specific data. The social networking websites also allow users to associate themselves with other users thus creating a web of connections among the users of the social networking website. These connections among the users can be leveraged by the website to offer more relevant information to each user in view of the users own stated interests in their connections.

A system such as a website that allows users to interact with the system typically stores a record for each users of the system. These records may comprise information provided by the user as well as information gathered by the system related to activities or actions of the user on the system. For example a system may require a user to enter information such as contact information gender preferences interests and the like in an initial interaction with the system which is stored in the user s record. A user s activities on the system such as frequency of access of particular information on the system also provide information that can be stored in the user s record. The system may then use information provided by the user and information gathered about the user to customize interactions of the system with the user. For example a website selling books may keep track of a users previous purchases and provide the user with information on related books during subsequent interactions with the system. Information in a user s profile may also be used by the system to target advertisements that are of interest to the user. Using information collected from and about users results in a system that is more efficient and beneficial for both the user and the system.

However prior systems including websites lack the ability to use information associated with a user s social connections or activities to customize and or personalize the user s experience while using the system. Access to information about the user s social interactions and or the activities of a user s social connections e.g. friends family co workers etc. improves the user s experience while using the system and increases the chance that the user will use the system in the future. For example users visiting a website that sells books may be interested in books that their social connections have looked at book reviews or comments provided by their social connections and other social network information that might inform their purchases of book from the website. The system itself also benefits because it can leverage information about the user and the user s social connections to more accurately determine what a user might be interested in. Such a system can use social network information to customize a user s experience and target products services and or advertisements to the user.

Typical systems do not possess sufficient information about a user s social connections to customize the user s experience or effectively target advertising to the user. Assembling enough information about a user s social connections for these purposes requires a system to interact with a large number of users over an extended period of time. The majority of websites will not have the resources expertise or user base required to build and maintain a system of the scale necessary to capture organize and maintain a sufficient amount of information about users social connections and their activities. Thus users of these systems will have an inferior experience and the customization personalization provided by these sites is unlikely to accurately take into account or reflect information about the user s social connections and their activities.

Users typically interact with social networking systems by accessing a web site over a network using a client device such as a desktop computer or a mobile device. Interactions between users and the social network system can be direct in that the web site that the user accesses hosts a social network application. Interactions between users and the social network system can also be indirect in that the user may access a web site of a third party which in turn access the social networking system for information about the user for purposes of augmenting the user s experience on the third party web site. In such instances the user typically interacts with a web site using a client device and therefore may be tracked or identified for purposes of authenticating and enabling access to the social network information by the user.

The figures depict various embodiments of the present invention for purposes of illustration only. One skilled in the art will readily recognize from the following discussion that alternative embodiments of the structures and methods illustrated herein may be employed without departing from the principles of the invention described herein.

Particular embodiments relate to a social networking environment including a social networking system and related systems that integrate social network information and access into real world locations to augment user experiences. A social networking system offers its users the ability to communicate and interact with other users of the social networking system. Users join the social networking system and then add connections to a number of other users to whom they desire to be connected. Systems outside of the social networking system called external systems can access information available in the social networking system. Users of the external system can be users of a social networking system. The external system can access information from the social networking system using an Application Programming Interface API associated with or provided by the social networking system. Alternatively the external system can send a markup language document to the client device with instructions for interacting with the social networking system. The external system may use the information obtained from the social networking system for various purposes. U.S. application Ser. No. 12 193 705 filed on Aug. 18 2008 Ser. No. 12 324 761 filed on Nov. 26 2008 Ser. No. 12 508 521 filed on Jul. 23 2009 Ser. No. 12 508 523 filed on Jul. 23 2009 and Ser. No. 12 508 526 filed on Jul. 23 2009 incorporated by reference herein describe how third party web sites may access social network information maintained by a social networking system hosted on a separate domain. As discussed herein federated access by external systems to social network information may be initiated based on activation or detection of a physical token such as a credit card an RFID badge a bar code QR code a mobile device e.g. a MAC address and the like including biometric identification such as fingerprints and retinal scans . Further a physical token can include any physical device such as a card or key fob that is both detectable by a Point of Sale POS terminal operated and associated with his or her social network account. For example a user may be given a card with a code on it where the user can enter the code to associate the physical card with the his social network account thus enabling the POS to recognize the user s social network account when it detects or recognizes the physical token in this example the card .

Implementations of the present invention extend these concepts by allowing federated access to social networking information of a user in various use cases where the user is not currently accessing the social networking system or a third party web site directly with a client device. As described below a user may initiate a workflow that establishes a federated access session between a third party system and a social networking system to allow the third party system to augment the user s experience with social networking information without the user directly accessing either the third party system or the social networking system.

External system may be operated by a financial account provider such as a credit card or debit card provider including banks or other financial institutions. Users of external system have one or more financial accounts and in some implementations have physical tokens such as credit cards that can be used in real world locations to charge purchases against such financial accounts. External system in one implementation hosts a web site that allows users to manage their respective accounts.

External system may be operated by a provider of goods and services. For example external system may correspond to an operator of a hotel or other accommodation in the hospitality environment. As shows external system may include one or more Point of Sale POS terminals that in some implementations are operative to process transactions initiated with physical tokens such as credit cards associated with users of external system . External system can also include other types of devices that detect or operate in connection with physical tokens such as Radio Frequency Identification RFID readers bar code and or block code scanners door key readers smart card readers wireless access points and the like. External system may be a web site that can access social network information of a user pursuant to the methods and technologies described in the U.S. Patent Applications identified above.

An external system can have several users that interact with the system and a user can interact with multiple external systems . An external system may interact with the social networking system to retrieve information available in the social networking system . The user can also directly interact with the social networking system . A user can link an account on an external system with the user s account on the social networking system . A user can also link an external system with the user s account on the social networking system by providing details of the external system to the social networking system . In this scenario the user may not have an account on the external system . If an external system is not linked to the user account of social networking system a request may be sent to the user to link the two accounts. The request may present an interface to the user allowing the user to input authentication information. If the user successfully provides the authentication information the external system is linked to the social networking system . If a user links an external system with the user s account on the social networking system the social networking system may store information related to the external system including the users activities on the external system along with the account of the social networking system . The information related to linked external systems stored by the social networking system is used in an embodiment by the social networking system to facilitate the process of the user logging into multiple external systems and can also be used for other purposes including to customize or enhance the user s experience on the social networking system to target advertisements etc. .

In an embodiment the login status of all the external system linked to the social networking system is treated as the same. Accordingly if a user logs into any one of the external systems the login status for all the external systems that have been linked by the user with the account on the social networking system is assumed to be logged in. Similarly if the user logs out of any one of these external systems the login status for all the external systems is assumed to be logged out. The login status for all the linked external systems is stored in the social networking system . In some implementations an external system on which a given user does not have an account or an account that is linked with social networking system may be provided with federated access to an account of social network system via other external systems such as external system as discussed below. In such systems the login status of the user may be unaffected by such federated access.

In an embodiment the social networking system maintains a login status of the user in the user account when the user logs into any of the external systems . If the user is not logged into any of the external systems the login status of the user indicates not logged in. If the user attempts to access social network information from an external system for example the user is requested to provide authentication information for the social networking system . If the user successfully authenticates the login status of the user in the social networking system is changed to logged in. If the user attempts to access any other external system for example the login status of the user in the social networking system is checked. If the login status of the user is determined to be logged in the user is allowed access to the external system . Hence the user is able to access social network information from multiple external systems by authenticating into the social networking system once.

In accordance with an embodiment of the invention the external system can access social networking system information or provide information to the social networking system using an Application Programming Interface API associated with or provided by the social networking system . Alternatively an external system may send a markup language document to the client device with instructions for accessing the social networking system . The client device processes the instructions in the markup language document and accesses the social networking system for either providing information or retrieving information. The external system may obtain information from the social networking system for various purposes. For example the external system may present activities of a user s connections on the external system to the user. The external system may also send information related to the user s activities performed on the external system to the social networking system . For example information related to purchases made by a user on an external system may be sent to the social networking system. The information related to purchases made by the user in the external system can be made available to connections of the user in the social network as a form of social advertisement.

The social networking system maintains information about connections among its users. As used herein the term connection refers to any other user whether an individual or other entity of the social networking system to whom a user has formed a connection association or relationship via the social networking system. Connections may be added explicitly by a user or automatically created by the social networking system based on common characteristics of the users e.g. users who are alumni of the same educational institution . Connections in social networks can be one or two way connections. For example if Bob and Joe are both users and connected to each other in the website Bob and Joe have a two way connection. If Bob is interested in learning more information about Joe but there is not a reciprocal connection a one way connection may be formed with Bob being connected to Joe but Joe not being connected to Bob. The connection between users may be a direct connection however some embodiments of a social network allow the connection to be indirect via one or more levels of connections. The social networking system keeps a record of information for each user and the connections among the users. The record of users and their connections in the social networking system may be called a social graph. 

The client devices comprise one or more computing devices that can receive user input and can transmit and receive data via the network . For example the client devices may be desktop computers laptop computers smart phones personal digital assistants PDAs or any other device including computing functionality and data communication capabilities. The client devices are configured to communicate via network which may comprise any combination of local area and or wide area networks using both wired and wireless communication systems.

The social networking system comprises a computing system that allows users to communicate or otherwise interact with each other and access content as described herein. The social networking system stores user information in user accounts store for example user profile information including biographic demographic and other types of descriptive information such as work experience educational history hobbies or preferences location and the like. The social networking system further stores data describing one or more connections between different users in the connection store . The connection information may indicate users who have similar or common work experience group memberships hobbies or educational history. Additionally the social networking system includes user defined connections between different users allowing users to specify their relationships with other users. For example these user defined connections allow users to generate relationships with other users that parallel users real life relationships such as friends co workers partners and so forth. Users may select from predefined types of connections or define their own connection types as needed.

The social networking system maintains a user profile for each user of the system. Actions that a particular user takes with respect to another user or data objects are associated with each user s profile. Such actions may include for example adding a connection to the other user sending a message to the other user reading a message from the other user viewing content associated with the other user attending an event posted by another user among others. The social networking system may also enable users to add applications to their profiles. These applications provide enhanced content and interactivity within the social networking system which maintains an application object for each application hosted in the system. The applications may be provided by the website operator and or by third party developers. An example application is an enhanced messaging service in which users can send virtual objects such as a gift or flowers and an optional message to another user. The use of any functionality offered by the application may thus constitute an action by the user in connection with the application. In addition continuing the example from above the receipt of the virtual gift or message may also be considered an action in connection with the application . It can therefore be appreciated that actions may be passive and need not require active participation by a user. Still further one or more of the user profiles may have a virtual currency account associated therewith. For example by using a credit card or by performing requested actions a user may accumulate virtual currency such as credits that can be redeemed for value with external systems or social networking system .

In another embodiment the social networking system logs actions taken by its users in the real world. These actions may be recorded by an action terminal which observes qualifying actions and then communicates that action to the social networking system . The communication may be via email SMS or any other appropriate means where the communicated message includes sufficient information for the social networking system to populate an action log with an entry describing the action. The action terminal may comprise any suitable devices or systems for the particular type of action to be tracked.

The web server links the social networking system via the network to one or more client devices the web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java Flash XML and so forth. In some embodiments the web server may be used for communicating with the external system . For example requests sent by the external system can be received by the web server and processed. The web server may include a mail server or other messaging functionality for receiving and routing messages between the social networking system and the client devices . The messages can be instant messages queued messages e.g. email text and SMS messages or any other suitable messaging technique.

The API request server allows external systems to access information from the social networking system by calling APIs. The API request server may also allow external systems to send information to social networking system by calling APIs. An external system sends an API request to the social networking system via the network . The API request is received at the social networking system by the API request server . The API request server processes the request by calling the appropriate program code to collect any appropriate response which is then communicated back to the external system via the network . In an embodiment the web server receives a request and calls the API server in order to process the request. The information based on the response from the API server is sent in response to the request received by the web server . A device that does not communicate with the web server can communicate directly with the API request server to obtain information.

The authorization server enforces the privacy settings of the users of the social networking system. The privacy setting of a user determines how particular information associated with a user can be shared. The privacy setting comprises the specification of particular information associated with a user and the specification of the entity or entities with whom the information can be shared. The entities with which information can be shared may include other users applications external systems or any entity that can potentially access the information. The information that can be shared by a user comprises user profile information photos videos links text entries phone numbers associated with the user user s connections actions taken by the user such as adding a connection changing user profile information and any other information maintained by the social networking system that is associates with the user. Systems and methods for allowing an external system to access information in a social networking system using APIs that enforce privacy settings defined in the social networking system are disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 324 761 filed Nov. 26 2008 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. Systems and methods for allowing users to control accessibility of content in a social networking system is disclosed in U.S. application Ser. No. 12 485 856 filed on Jun. 16 2009 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety. Systems and methods for providing privacy settings for applications associated with a user profile are disclosed in Ser. No. 12 154 886 filed on May 27 2008 which is incorporated by reference in its entirety.

As discussed above the social networking system maintains data about objects with which a user may interact. To this end the user accounts store and the connection store instances of the corresponding type of objects maintained by the social networking system . Each object type has information fields that are suitable for storing information appropriate to the type of object. For example the user account store contains data structures with fields suitable for describing a user s profile the login status of a user and the user accounts in external systems that are linked to a corresponding account in the social networking system . When a new object of a particular type is created the social networking system initializes a new data structure of the corresponding type assigns a unique object identifier to it and begins to add data to the object as needed. This might occur for example when a user becomes a user of the social networking system the social networking system generates a new instance of a user account in the user account store assigns a unique identifier to the user account and begins to populate the fields of the user account with information provided by the user.

The web server of the external system links the external system via the network to one or more client devices the web server serves web pages as well as other web related content such as Java Flash XML and so forth. The content presented to the client device is stored in the content store . In some embodiments the web server or other networked computing device may be used for interacting with the social networking system . For example requests and responses sent by the social networking system can be received by the web server for processing.

The external system maintains a user accounts store to maintain data associated with accounts of users of the external system . The user accounts store may store information associated with a user including user name and password as well as other information relevant to the external system . For example email address mailing address and billing information. In some embodiments the external system can also store additional information including user actions or interests or any other information gathered by the external system associated with user.

In one implementation external system corresponds to a financial services entity that maintains financial accounts for users. As shown in external system may include a transaction processing server that is operable to interact with one or more point of sale POS terminals of external system to process credit and or debit card transactions. External system may correspond to a location owned or operated by a provider of goods and services such as a hotel. External system may include its own web servers and databases as well as other networked systems including pay per view and other video distribution systems registration and reservation management systems and the like.

In one embodiment a user of the social networking system that holds an external financial account such as a credit card account with external system may access external system and opt in by registering his or her account on social networking system . When the registered credit card is used in a qualifying way e.g. a purchase made at a point of sale the credit card company or clearinghouse sends a message to the social networking system . In this scenario a computing system at the credit card company or clearinghouse serves as an action terminal to generate a message describing the user s activities. The message may contain information about the credit card transaction such as the item purchased the date and location of the purchase. The social networking system thus tracks real world actions such as this purchase in the action log .

The POS terminal responsive to the indication may present a screen to the user or an operator of the POS terminal that the user has the option to grant an external system with federated access to social network information of the user such as to connect his or her experience with social networking system . For example in addition to an authorization screen in which a user may input a signature or a Personal Identification Number PIN a user may be presented with selectable options such as Do you wish to update your status on Facebook and Do you want your Facebook News Feed forwarded to your hotel room television Do you want us to look to see if your friends are nearby and the like. The user may make a selection of one or more options which the POS terminal communicates to external system . In some implementations a user may be offered incentives to select certain options. For example the user may be offered a discount on the services or products to be purchased if the user elects to post a desired status message to his or her profile such as User X has just checked in to the Socially Connected Hotel. In one implementation the POS terminal may also ask the user to confirm his or her user account identifier and password. In one implementation the message transmitted from POS terminal to external system may include an indication of the options selected by the user and a computer network address information such as a Uniform Resource Locator URL or an Internet Protocol IP address of a target host here a federated access server for granting federated access to social networking system on behalf of the user.

As shows external system may also interact directly with social networking system in response to the message. For example if the message indicates that the user desires to update his or her status as Just checked in to my hotel room at Connected Hotel external system may make an API call to social networking system to post this information. In one implementation the API call may be included in a message that has been digitally signed by the external system . External system may employ one way hash functions to generate the digital signature such as SHA 1 or MD5 etc.

External system in response to the message sent from POS terminal may also generate a federated session token and transmit the token to the end system in called a federated session server corresponding to the computer network address information transmitted by POS terminal . In one implementation the federated session token is a digitally signed token that permits federated session server to access social network information associated with the user . In one implementation the federated access token may include one or more of an identifier corresponding to the user used by social networking system to identify an account computer network address information corresponding to federated access server indications of one or more access options selected by the user and metadata describing the activities of the user at the location corresponding to external system . In one embodiment the activities metadata may be entered by the user either at the POS or using a keyboard or touch screen on the physical token itself. In another embodiment the activities metadata may be known by virtue of the POS terminal. For example the POS terminal could have known associated metadata when the user s physical token is recognized such as the geo location the type or genre of location restaurant hotel bank the date time etc. External system may transmit the federated access token to federated access server . Federated access server may in turn transmit a request appended with the federated access token to open a federated session with social networking system . Social networking system in one implementation having a trust relationship with external system validates the federated access token by verifying the digital signature generated by external system . If the federated access token is authenticated social networking system establishes the federated access session transmitting a response to federated access server . In one implementation the response transmitted to federated access server may include one or more parameters associated with the session such as encryption parameters cypher suites etc. as well as a time limit for the federated access session . Thereafter federated access server may then access social network information of the user over federated access session . Social networking system may also generate and transmit a notification to the user that a federated access session has been established. This notification can be transmitted in an email a Short Message Service SMS message and the like. In one implementation the user may be prompted to respond to the message in order to keep the federated access session alive. In some implementations the message may also include links or instructions to the user that allow the user to terminate the federated access session as well. In some implementations if the user s login status indicates that the user is logged in with a mobile device social networking system may push a notification to the user s client device .

Federated access server via the federated access session may access social network information associated with the user to augment the user s experience at a physical location such as a hotel and also post activities of the user at the location. For example federated access server may request a news feed for the user and then forward the news feed or live feed for display by a set top box and television in the user s hotel room. Alternatively the federated access server may request pictures associated with the user and or the user s friends and forward them to a set top box for display. Federated access server may also access social networking system to identify which other of the user s friends may also be at the same location and notify the user of such friends. The user s friends may also be similarly notified. In addition the user using the set top box and an associated remote control for example may access and or change one or more aspects of his or her user profile e.g. changing status profile attributes modifying friends list and the like or otherwise access the system such as causing the set top box to navigate to another user page and or entering a wall post or other message.

A variety of other implementations are possible. For example in other implementations and as detailed below in connection with the access token and corresponding user identifying information may be more directly associated with or at least maintained social networking system . In such an embodiment the POS terminal or other access token reader may interact directly with social networking system to provide an external system with federated access to social network information of the user. In some implementations the federated access server may act as a proxy or gateway allowing other systems of external system to obtain social network information of the user. For example as discussed above one example end system is a set top box which may access social network information of the user through federated access server . Other end systems may include IP enabled televisions IPTVs network enabled picture displays hotel restaurant reservation systems and the like. In other implementations the access token reader may also be connected to a digital camera that is operative to capture a picture of the user. The captured digital image can be provided to federated access server to upload to social networking system in order to post the picture to a profile of the user.

In an embodiment a subset of the social network information requested by federated access server may be provided by the social networking system based on privacy settings of the users of the social networking system . For example the privacy settings may restrict the information that an external system is allowed to access. The social network information provided to the external system is the subset of the requested information that the external system is allowed to access based on the user s privacy settings. Furthermore the social network information requested may be information associated with the connections of the user in the social networking system . The subset of social network information provided to the external system is determined based on the privacy settings of the user as well as the privacy settings of the user s connections in the social networking system . The enforcement of the privacy settings ensures that a user who is not allowed to see specific information associated with another user within the social networking system is not allowed to see the same information outside of the social networking system context for example using an external system .

In an embodiment the privacy settings are not enforced by the social networking system and the information requested by the federated access server is sent by the social networking system along with the privacy setting information of the users of the social networking system. The external system enforces the privacy settings information of the users of the social networking system and makes sure that a user who is not allowed to see specific information within the social networking system is not allowed to see the same information in the external system. In another embodiment specific types of privacy settings may be enforced by the social networking system whereas other types of privacy setting information may be communicated to the external system and enforced by the external system.

The information generated by the system described above can be utilized in a variety of ways. For example external system may access the user s social network information to assist in selecting one or more advertisements to display to the user. Rather than simply deliver an advertisement that is targeted to a particular user based on the user s preferences as for example declared by the user in the user s profile page particular embodiments can present advertisements that communicate information about or take into account actions taken by the user as well as potentially other users in the user s network i.e. the user s friends and other relationships and connections in the social networking website . Furthermore the actions taken by users can be correlated to the vast array of information attributes that the social network system maintains in order to improve analytical and targeting processes as well as the user experience with the social networking environment.

In particular embodiments the social networking system receives messages from one or more end systems associated with federated access server that communicate the actions taken by users while using a set top box for example. More particularly in various example embodiments when a user takes one or more actions using a set top box for example watching a particular television show the federated access server may transmit an indication of the media consumed to social networking system . In particular embodiments these parameters are logged by the social networking system analyzed and can be correlated to logged activity history of the user. Depending on the user s privacy settings one or more of these activities may also be posted to a user s status or otherwise added to the user s profile.

Social networking system in one implementation may process the token activation message in a manner similar to a login request such as decrypting the message with a public key of the proxy verifying the replay protection counter and the like. Furthermore in one implementation social networking system maintains a database of information that is operative to resolve a user identifier corresponding to a user account based on the token identifier. Social networking system also maintains a database of information that resolves entity information associated with the reader identifier. For example the reader identifier may correspond to a known location or a known physical system such as an information kiosk a physical entryway a lobby a check in counter a vending machine and the like. One or more of the reader identifiers may also be associated with a concept or informational page hosted by social networking system . Still further the reader identifier may also map to a third party application hosted on proxy or social networking system . In such an implementation the third party application may be initiated in response to the token activation message. In addition identification of a third party application such as a hotel login or registration application may also map to user privacy settings that a user has previously configured for the application such as disallowing access to certain types of user data permitting only certain types of messages to be posted to a user profile and the like. Mapping reader identifiers or proxies themselves to applications allows for the development of applications that can act as proxies for the user such as uploading content posting status messages as well as accessing content such as news feeds and other information that is otherwise accessible to the user. Furthermore mapping proxy or readers to applications allows for the user to selectively configure privacy settings for the applications on an individualized basis.

Social networking system in one implementation may identify a user associated with the token identifier to validate the token. The social networking system may also access privacy and other configuration settings of the user to determine whether to grant federated session access to the proxy . For example the social networking system may map the reader identifier as discussed above to a network application to determine whether the user corresponding to the token has granted the required access permissions. If so the social networking system may transmit a session login response to proxy . In one implementation the session login response may include a session identifier as well as an access token such as a digitally signed token.

After the proxy receives a valid session login response it may perform a variety of actions. In some implementations the proxy may access the reader identifier to determine what operations should be performed. For example if the physical token reader corresponds to a check in counter the proxy may post a message to the profile of the user indicating that the user has checked in to a hotel or conference. In some implementations the proxy may transmit a request to post a photograph or other content associated with the reader . In one implementation the social networking system may access privacy settings to authorize the request. If the request is authorized the social networking system may transmit an authorization or acknowledgment message to proxy . In response proxy may forward the message to reader . Reader equipped with or connected to a camera may perform a requested action such as taking a picture of the user and transmit the picture to proxy which uploads the photograph to social networking system for display on the user s profile page and possibly newsfeeds of other users. Depending on the type of transaction social networking system may transmit an acknowledgement to proxy which proxy may optionally forward to reader .

A variety of other actions can be taken at the reader . For example the reader in connection with the proxy may step the user through an authorization workflow where the user authorizes proxy to debit a virtual currency account associated with the user in exchange for a product or service. In other embodiments the reader in connection with the proxy may step the user through an authorization workflow where the user authorizes proxy to credit a virtual currency account associated with the user in exchange for performing some action such as allowing a post on a user s wall with new status information to advertise the user s presence at a particular location to other users. In other embodiments the reader in connection with the proxy may step the user through an authorization workflow where the user becomes a fan of a particular page hosted by social networking system .

Other implementations are possible. In one such implementation the functions of the reader and one or more of the functions of the proxy may be combined into one physical system possibly obviating the need for one or more of the message flows illustrated in . Furthermore the proxy may be hosted locally proximally to the reader at social networking system or at an intermediate device.

In summary as a result of the foregoing a federated access session can be established upon a simple swipe of a card or other type of activation by a user allowing a proxy to interact with social networking system on the user s behalf. As discussed above the proxy can operate to augment a user s experience at one or more locations.

Embodiments of the invention have been described in the context of social networking websites. However the techniques described herein may be applied to a number of other types of websites that are not necessarily concerned with social networking. Such websites include any website that tracks any kind of information about users of the website and then provides that information to other users. For example a retail website may keep track of users who make purchases from the website then communicating the information about some of its users to other users using the techniques described herein.

The foregoing description of the embodiments of the invention has been presented for the purpose of illustration it is not intended to be exhaustive or to limit the invention to the precise forms disclosed. Persons skilled in the relevant art can appreciate that many modifications and variations are possible in light of the above disclosure. For example although the foregoing embodiments have been described in the context of a social network system it will apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art that the invention may be used with any electronic social network service and even if it is not provided through a website. Any computer based system that provides social networking functionality can be used in accordance with the present invention even if it relies for example on e mail instant messaging or other form of peer to peer communications and any other technique for communicating between users. The invention is thus not limited to any particular type of communication system network protocol format or application.

Some portions of this description describe the embodiments of the invention in terms of algorithms and symbolic representations of operations on information. These algorithmic descriptions and representations are commonly used by those skilled in the data processing arts to convey the substance of their work effectively to others skilled in the art. These operations while described functionally computationally or logically are understood to be implemented by computer programs or equivalent electrical circuits microcode or the like. Furthermore it has also proven convenient at times to refer to these arrangements of operations as modules without loss of generality. The described operations and their associated modules may be embodied in software firmware hardware or any combinations thereof.

Any of the steps operations or processes described herein may be performed or implemented with one or more hardware or software modules alone or in combination with other devices. In one embodiment a software module is implemented with a computer program product comprising a computer readable medium containing computer program code which can be executed by a computer processor for performing any or all of the steps operations or processes described.

Embodiments of the invention may also relate to an apparatus for performing the operations herein. This apparatus may be specially constructed for the required purposes and or it may comprise a general purpose computing device selectively activated or reconfigured by a computer program stored in the computer. Such a computer program may be stored in a tangible computer readable storage medium or any type of media suitable for storing electronic instructions and coupled to a computer system bus. Furthermore any computing systems referred to in the specification may include a single processor or may be architectures employing multiple processor designs for increased computing capability.

While the foregoing processes and mechanisms can be implemented by a wide variety of physical systems and in a wide variety of network and computing environments the server or computing systems described below provide example computing system architectures for didactic rather than limiting purposes.

The elements of hardware system are described in greater detail below. In particular network interface provides communication between hardware system and any of a wide range of networks such as an Ethernet e.g. IEEE 802.3 network a backplane etc. Mass storage provides permanent storage for the data and programming instructions to perform the above described functions implemented by the respective computing systems identified above whereas system memory e.g. DRAM provides temporary storage for the data and programming instructions when executed by processor . I O ports are one or more serial and or parallel communication ports that provide communication between additional peripheral devices which may be coupled to hardware system .

Hardware system may include a variety of system architectures and various components of hardware system may be rearranged. For example cache may be on chip with processor . Alternatively cache and processor may be packed together as a processor module with processor being referred to as the processor core. Furthermore certain embodiments of the present invention may not require nor include all of the above components. For example the peripheral devices shown coupled to standard I O bus may couple to high performance I O bus . In addition in some embodiments only a single bus may exist with the components of hardware system being coupled to the single bus. Furthermore hardware system may include additional components such as additional processors storage devices or memories.

In one implementation the operations of the nickname generating process described herein are implemented as a series of executable modules run by hardware system individually or collectively in a distributed computing environment. In a particular embodiment a set of software modules and or drivers implements a network communications protocol stack parallel computing functions nickname generating processes and the like. The foregoing functional modules may be realized by hardware executable modules stored on a computer readable medium or a combination of both. For example the functional modules may comprise a plurality or series of instructions to be executed by a processor in a hardware system such as processor . Initially the series of instructions may be stored on a storage device such as mass storage . However the series of instructions can be stored on any suitable storage medium such as a diskette CD ROM ROM EEPROM etc. Furthermore the series of instructions need not be stored locally and could be received from a remote storage device such as a server on a network via network communications interface . The instructions are copied from the storage device such as mass storage into memory and then accessed and executed by processor .

An operating system manages and controls the operation of hardware system including the input and output of data to and from software applications not shown . The operating system provides an interface between the software applications being executed on the system and the hardware components of the system. Any suitable operating system may be used such as the LINUX Operating System the Apple Macintosh Operating System available from Apple Computer Inc. of Cupertino Calif. UNIX operating systems Microsoft Windows operating systems BSD operating systems and the like. Of course other implementations are possible. For example the nickname generating functions described herein may be implemented in firmware or on an application specific integrated circuit.

Furthermore the above described elements and operations can be comprised of instructions that are stored on storage media. The instructions can be retrieved and executed by a processing system. Some examples of instructions are software program code and firmware. Some examples of storage media are memory devices tape disks integrated circuits and servers. The instructions are operational when executed by the processing system to direct the processing system to operate in accord with the invention. The term processing system refers to a single processing device or a group of inter operational processing devices. Some examples of processing devices are integrated circuits and logic circuitry. Those skilled in the art are familiar with instructions computers and storage media.

The present invention has been explained with reference to specific embodiments. For example while embodiments of the present invention have been described as operating in connection with a social network system the present invention can be used in connection with any communications facility that allows for communication of messages between users such as an email hosting site. In addition while some embodiments have been described as operating in connection with a credit card transaction processing network and POS terminals the present invention has application to a variety of systems that include mechanisms for detecting or reading physical tokens that are associated with users. Other embodiments will be evident to those of ordinary skill in the art. It is therefore not intended that the present invention be limited except as indicated by the appended claims.

Finally the language used in the specification has been principally selected for readability and instructional purposes and it may not have been selected to delineate or circumscribe the inventive subject matter. It is therefore intended that the scope of the invention be limited not by this detailed description but rather by any claims that issue on an application based hereon. Accordingly the disclosure of the embodiments of the invention is intended to be illustrative but not limiting of the scope of the invention which is set forth in the following claims.

