---

title: Piezo-phototronic sensor
abstract: A device includes a substrate having a first surface. A piezoelectric nanowire is disposed on the first surface of the substrate. The piezoelectric nanowire has a first end and an opposite second end. The piezoelectric nanowire is subjected to an amount of strain. A first Schottky contact is in electrical communication with the first end of the piezoelectric nanowire. A second Schottky contact is in electrical communication with the second end of the piezoelectric nanowire. A bias voltage source is configured to impart a bias voltage between the first Schottky contact and the second Schottky contact. A mechanism is configured to measure current flowing through the piezoelectric nanowire. The amount of strain is selected so that a predetermined current will flow through the piezoelectric nanowire when light of a selected intensity is applied to a first location on the piezoelectric nanowire.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08558329&OS=08558329&RS=08558329
owner: Georgia Tech Research Corporation
number: 08558329
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101112
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 261 033 filed Nov. 13 2009 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under contract No. DE FG02 07ER46394 awarded by the Department of Energy and under contract No. W31P4Q 08 1 0009 awarded by the United States Army. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to photonic devices and more specifically to photonic devices employing piezoelectronic materials.

Semiconductor nanowires are the fundamental materials for fabricating a wide range of nanodevices. In the oxide family ZnO nanowires and nanobelts have been widely studied as a key ID oxide nano material for numerous applications. Due to the piezoelectric and semiconducting coupled properties a range of nanodevices of ZnO have been developed such as nano generators piezoelectric field effect transistors piezoelectric diode and strain sensors. ZnO exhibits a direct band gap of 3.4 eV and a large exciton binding energy 60 meV at room temperature make ZnO.

The disadvantages of the prior art are overcome by the present invention which in one aspect is a device that includes a substrate having a first surface. A piezoelectric nanowire is disposed on the first surface of the substrate. The piezoelectric nanowire has a first end and an opposite second end. The piezoelectric nanowire is subjected to an amount of strain. A first Schottky contact is in electrical communication with the first end of the piezoelectric nanowire. A second Schottky contact is in electrical communication with the second end of the piezoelectric nanowire. A bias voltage source is configured to impart a bias voltage between the first Schottky contact and the second Schottky contact. A mechanism is configured to measure current flowing through the piezoelectric nanowire. The amount of strain is selected so that a predetermined current will flow through the piezoelectric nanowire when light of a selected intensity is applied to a first location on the piezoelectric nanowire.

In another aspect the invention is a method of detecting intensity of a light beam in which a predetermined amount of strain is applied to a light detecting device that includes a piezoelectric nanowire and two spaced apart Schottky contacts in electrical communication therewith. A bias voltage is applied between the two spaced apart Schottky contacts. A portion of the light detecting device is subjected to the light beam. A current flowing through the piezoelectric nanowire measured thereby measuring the intensity of the light beam.

In another aspect the invention is a method of maximizing power output of a photon cell in which a predetermined amount of strain is applied to a structure of photon cell that includes a piezoelectric nanowire and two spaced apart Schottky and Ohmic contacts in electrical communication therewith. A portion of the device is subjected to a light beam.

In yet another aspect the invention is a method of maximizing the efficiency of a light emitting diode that includes a first semiconductor materials and an adjacent second piezoelectric semiconductor material. A predetermined amount of strain is applied to the second piezoelectric semiconductor material. A voltage is applied across the light emitting diode thereby generating light.

These and other aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the following drawings. As would be obvious to one skilled in the art many variations and modifications of the invention may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the disclosure.

A preferred embodiment of the invention is now described in detail. Referring to the drawings like numbers indicate like parts throughout the views. Unless otherwise specifically indicated in the disclosure that follows the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. As used in the description herein and throughout the claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise the meaning of a an and the includes plural reference the meaning of in includes in and on. Nanowires include nano scale wires and micro scale wires.

The following U.S. patent applications disclose methods of generating zinc oxide piezoelectric nanostructures including nanowires of the types disclosed below and are hereby incorporated by reference Ser. Nos. 10 726 016 filed on Dec. 2 2003 by Wang et al. 11 608 865 filed on Dec. 11 2006 by Wang et al. 11 760 002 filed on Jun. 8 2007 by Wang et al. 12 209 310 filed on Sep. 12 2008 by Wang et al. and 12 413 470 filed on Mar. 27 2009 by Wang et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 586 095 issued on Jul. 1 2003 to Wang et al. also discloses methods of generating piezoelectric nanostructures and is hereby incorporated by reference.

As shown in one embodiment of a piezo phototronic device includes a flexible substrate which in one embodiment includes a polymer such as polystyrene having a first surface onto which is disposed a piezoelectric nanowire . The piezoelectric nanowire such as a zinc oxide nanowire having a first end in electrical communication with a first Schottky contact such as a metal contact and an opposite second end in electrical communication with a second Schottky contact which can also be a metal contact . The piezoelectric nanowire is subjected to an amount of strain which in one embodiment is in a range of 2 tensile strain to 2 compressive strain . A bias voltage source imparts a bias voltage between the first Schottky contact and the second Schottky contact . A mechanism such as an ammeter measures current flowing through the piezoelectric nanowire . The amount of strain is selected so that a predetermined current will through the piezoelectric nanowire when light of a selected intensity is applied to a first location on the piezoelectric nanowire.

As shown in typically the thickness of the substrate is substantially greater than the diameter of the nanowire . This allows for the application of strain by simply bending the substrate and the nanowire . shows tensile strain being applied by bending the center of the device upwardly whereas shows compressive strain being applied by bending the center of the device downwardly.

To detect the intensity of a light beam a predetermined amount of strain is applied to the piezo phototronic device and current flowing through the nanowire is measured by the ammeter . The amount of current corresponds to the intensity of the light beam . This type of device may also be used to measure strain when the intensity of the light beam is known as the amount of current also corresponds to the amount of strain applied.

In one experimental embodiment the ZnO microwires were grown by a high temperature thermal evaporation process. The typical diameter was around 2 6 m and the length was several hundred micrometers to several millimeters. Such long microwires were chosen for easy manipulation using a mechanical deformation stage and with consideration of the limited size of the laser spot but the same principle applies to nanowires. For device fabrication a ZnO microwire was first laid down on a polystyrene PS substrate and then each end of the wire was fixed to the substrate using silver paste metal wires were also bonded to a ZnO microwire for electrical measurement. The dimension of the PS substrate was 3.5 mm in length 5 mm in width and with a thickness of 1 mm. An additional layer of polydimethylsiloxane PDMS was used to package the device and it kept the device mechanically robust under repeated manipulation. The thickness of the PDMS layer was much thinner than the thickness of the PS substrate. A He Cd laser with wavelength 325 nm was used as the source for photo excitation. The diameter of the beam was focused to a spot less than 20 m. A Keithley 4200 Semiconductor Characterization System was used to carry out electrical measurements.

The photo response of a microwire device with photo excitation at different locations along the ZnO microwire was measured. shows the beam being directed to position P shows the laser beam being directed to position P and shows the beam being directed to position P. These positions are also shown in the micrograph of the experimental system shown in Points P P and P respectively represent the positions at the left hand metal ZnO contact central channel region and right hand metal ZnO contact. shows the I V curves recorded with the laser spot at the corresponding positions and shows a logarithm plot of the current as a function of the applied voltage showing the change in the magnitude of the current. Originally the I V characteristic without laser irradiation is symmetrically non linear which indicates that Schottky barriers SBs were formed at the two contacts with similar barrier heights. When the laser was focused at the left hand or right hand metal ZnO contact positions P and P respectively there was a much greater photo response when the SB was reversely biased than when it was forward biased. The relative change in the photon conductance reached as much as 3 orders of magnitudes for the local SB when it was reversely biased instead of forward biased and a very non symmetrical I V characteristic was observed. However when the laser was focused at the channel center position P e.g. the microwire only far from each metal ZnO contact a symmetric I V characteristic was seen and the photo response was moderate compared to the reverse biased SB case. The shape of the I V curve in this case is similar to that of the as fabricated device without laser excitation except for the increase in magnitude as shown in .

The result presented in can be understood from the mechanism of photo excitation at a SB. When a SB is formed at the metal ZnO interface negative charges build up at the metal surface in a very thin layer. An equal amount of positive charge must exist in the ZnO depletion region. Thus a strong local electric field is formed in the depletion region. Under the irradiation of a light source with energy greater than the band gap electrons in ZnO s valence band will be excited into the conduction band leaving holes in the valence band. These photon generated carriers will contribute to the current only when they can drift or diffuse into the electrode before recombination occurs. If the laser irradiation occurs at the depletion region or at a location less than a diffusion length away from it the photon generated electrons and holes are quickly swept away from this area in opposite directions by the strong local electric field in the region as indicated in the left part of C. Therefore the recombination rate in this area will be greatly depressed and the local conductance is greatly enhanced. Moreover the migration of holes into the metal side and the generated electrons in the depletion layer will reduce the local net charge density in the region thus the local electric field is lowered resulting in a reduced height of the SB as shown at the right hand part of . When the SB is reversely biased the applied electric field is in parallel to the local electric field in the depletion region resulting in a large enhancement in the photoconductivity. This is also the working principle of photodiodes.

In the case of a forward biased SB two scenarios have to be considered. One when the applied voltage is low the applied electric field is opposed to the local electric field and not much change in the local conductance is expected. The second when the applied voltage is high enough there is no barrier seen by the electrons and thus no strong local electric field to effectively separate the photon generated electrons and holes. Thus they have limited contribution to the conductance. Therefore as a whole the photo response of the forward biased SB has a much smaller effect than in the reverse biased case in tuning the local electric transport property.

When the excitation is focused at the central channel of the wire far from the two end contacts there is only an effect of photon induced generation of electrons and holes. But the recombination rate is much higher in this region than in the reverse biased SB area. So the photo response is much smaller here comparing to the reverse biased SB case. It must be noted that if the original carrier density is very high the photon generated carriers will have limited influence on the conductance.

In one experimental embodiment the inventors measured the original I V characteristics of the device in the dark condition. Various I V characteristics were found in the experiments. The symmetric rectifying I V curves indicated that there were two back to back Schottky contacts at the two ends of the ZnO wire. As for the UV responsivity measurements the bias was set at a fixed value of 5 V reverse bias for all of the measurements unless specifically indicated. The measured absolute current increased significantly with light illumination the dark current was about 14 pA the current increased to 260 nA under 22 W cmlight illumination further increased to 1.9 A under 33 mW cmlight illumination. The sensitivity defined as I I Iwas found to be 1.8 10 and 1.4 10 at 22 W cmand 33 mW cmillumination respectively. The sensitivity here is one or two orders of magnitude higher than that in a single Schottky contact device because of the very low dark current due to the depletion layer formed at the two Schottky contacts and oxygen related hole trapping states at the ZnO wire surface. Spectral photo response of a ZnO wire photodetector showed a large UV to visible rejection ratio which is defined as the sensitivity measured at UV divided by that at blue and it was about 10for the photodetector. The high spectral selectivity combined with high sensitivity suggests the possibility of using the ZnO wire photodetector as visible blind UV photodetector for environmental space based defense and industrial applications. The photodetector was also measured with light on and off for many cycles with different light intensities showing an excellent reversibility and stability with decay time about 1 s. The relative long reset time may be caused by the ultra long length of the wire which is used for easy and precise controlling the strain in the wire.

The photocurrent I I I increased linearly with the optical power and showed no saturation at high power levels offering a large dynamic range from sub W cmto mW cm. The total responsivity of the photodetector is defined as

The structure illustrates the effects of the piezo potential on the performance of the photodetector. First the inventors investigated the effects of piezo potential on the dark current of the photodetector. Without strain the dark current versus voltage curve of the device in semi logarithmic scale was very flat even out to high bias remained 

Some of the devices show opposite change when applying the same strain. The absolute current decreased step by step when applied a variable strain from 0.36 tensile to 0.36 compression. Tensile strain improved the responsivity of the photodetector. This phenomenon is attributed to the switching in signs of the piezo potential which depends on the orientation of the c axis of the ZnO wire.

The device can be considered as a single ZnO wire sandwiched between two back to back Schottky diodes. When a relatively large negative voltage was applied the voltage drop occurred mainly at the reversely biased Schottky barrier at the drain side which is denoted as V V. Under reverse bias and in the dark condition thermionic emission with barrier lowering is usually the dominant current transport mechanism at a Schottky barrier which can be described by the thermionic emission diffusion theory for V 3 kT q 77 mV as 

The effect of photo illumination on semiconductor thermionic emission is to lower the energy barrier by the difference between the quasi Fermi level with photo excitation and the Fermi level without photo excitation and to reduce the width of depletion layer by photon generated holes trapping in the depletion layer. The current transport mechanism with illumination can be describes as 

The ln I V qualitatively indicates that the variation of ln I can be described by the power law of Vfor reversely biased Schottky barrier. However the slope and extended zero voltage point for the fitting data with light illumination is larger than those in the dark. According to equations 4 and 5 the difference may be attributed to an effective lowering of Schottky barrier and the change of Ndue to the holes trapped in the depletion region.

By assuming S A T Nare independent of strain at small deformation the change of Schottky barrier height SBH with strain upon illumination can be determined by 

The change of Schottky barrier height under strain is a combined effect from both strain induced band structure change e.g. piezoresistance and piezoelectric polarization. The contributions from band structure effect to SBH in source and drain contacts are denoted as and respectively. Assuming the axial strain is uniform in the ZnO wire along its entire length if the two contacts are identical. This is the piezoresistance effect which is symmetric and has equal effects regardless the polarity of the voltage. The asymmetric change of I V curve at negative and positive bias in our case is dominated by piezoelectric effect rather than piezoresistance effect. The effect of piezopotential to the SBH can be qualitatively described as follows. For a constant strain of along the length of the wire an axial polarization P eoccurs where eis the piezoelectric tensor. A potential drop of approximately V V Leis along the length of the wire where L is the length of the wire. Therefore the modulations to the SBH at the source and drain sides are of the same magnitude but opposite sign V V which are denoted by and .

In the experiments the light intensity were fixed and the substrate was bent step by step thus strain was introduced into the device step by step. Depending on the deformation direction the sign of the strain was changed from positive to negative or vice versa. Meanwhile the corresponding piezopotential distribution in the wire was also adjusted step by step which changed the effective heights of the two Schottky barriers and thus the photocurrent and responsivity of the device. If the nanowire is positioned along c axis direction from drain to source side a positive potential drop will be induced along the length of the wire under compressive strain. Therefore the SBH at the drain contacts were decreased with increasing compressive strain simultaneously the photocurrent and responsivity were increased under compressive strain.

The effect of piezopotential decreases with increasing light intensity which may be caused by the screening effect of the newly generated charge carriers to the piezopotential. When ZnO wire is under high light intensity large amount of free electrons and holes are generated. They will accumulate and make the piezoelectrical potential to be partially screened and will be decreased to .

It is interesting that the piezoelectric effect on I V curve in the dark is not obviously either. In the dark the surface of the ZnO wire is depleted by absorbed oxygen molecules and the dark current is very low about 14 pA at 5 V applied bias . In this case the device can be considered as an insulator wire sandwiched between two back to back Schottky diodes and the current is controlled by the bulk of the sample not by the Schottky contact. Thus although piezopotential tunes the SBH it can t have dominant effect on the dark current. Therefore piezopotential dramatically increases the responsivity for pW level light detection while keep low dark current characteristics of the devices which is very useful for applications.

The inventors have demonstrated a piezopotential tuned low dark current ultra sensitive ZnO wire photodetector. The device remains low dark current characteristics while increasing the responsivity dramatically for pW level light detection by piezopotential. The derived change of barrier height with strain depends on excitation light intensity the SBH changes faster at low light intensity than that at high light intensity. The physical mechanism is explained by considering both piezopotential effect and photon generated free charges screening effect. Three way coupling of semiconducting photonic and piezoelectric properties of semiconductor nanowires will allow tuning and controlling of electro optical process by strain induced piezopotential e.g. piezo phototronic effect and it will also lead to further integration between piezoelectric devices with microelectronic and opto mechanical systems. Using the methods disclosed above a device that uses light to tune the strain response can be used by measuring current flowing through it under an applied bias voltage.

The above described embodiments while including the preferred embodiment and the best mode of the invention known to the inventor at the time of filing are given as illustrative examples only. It will be readily appreciated that many deviations may be made from the specific embodiments disclosed in this specification without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is to be determined by the claims below rather than being limited to the specifically described embodiments above.

