---

title: Computer peripheral for scanning
abstract: A computer peripheral that may operate as a hand-held scanner and, in some embodiments, also as a conventional computer mouse. The components incorporated in the device to support scanning may be compact and may be positioned to allow flexibility in shaping a housing of the device. As a result, the device may be ergonomically shaped to facilitate hand-held use as either a scanner or a mouse. Controls, for mouse or scanner operation, may be readily incorporated into the device. The components may also be low cost. Such a low cost, compact design may be achieved through an appropriate selection of curved reflective surfaces in optical paths through the housing. The curved reflective surface may selectively focus or spread light traveling along an optical path, reducing or eliminating the need for lenses and may enable light emitting elements and an image array to be mounted on the same printed circuit board.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08497840&OS=08497840&RS=08497840
owner: Dacuda AG
number: 08497840
owner_city: Zurich
owner_country: CH
publication_date: 20100325
---
This application relates generally to handheld computer related devices that can be adapted to act as image scanners and more specifically to forming composite images from image frames generated by such handheld computer related devices.

Image scanners are frequently used in business and even home settings. A scanner can acquire in digital form an image of an object. Generally the scanned object is flat such as a document or a photograph. Once scanned the image can be manipulated e.g. rotated cropped and color balanced processed e.g. copied to be pasted elsewhere and further handled such as attached to an e mail sent over a telephone line as a fax or printed as a copy.

A scanner includes an image array but the image array is generally smaller than the object to be scanned. The scanner can nonetheless acquire an image of the entire object because there is relative motion of the image array and the object during scanning. During this time of relative motion the output of the image array represents different portions of the object at different times. As the scanner moves relative to the object successive outputs of the image array are captured and then assembled into an image representing the entire item.

In some scanners such as a flatbed scanner the object to be scanned is held in a fixed position. The scanner is constructed such that the image array is mechanically constrained to move only along a predefined path relative to that fixed position. As a result information about the relative position of the object and the image array can be used to position the successive outputs of the image array within an image such that the image accurately represents the object being scanned.

Other scanners are handheld such that mechanical constraints on the movement of the image array relative to the object to be scanned may be reduced. However application of handheld scanners may still be limited by some constraints. For example some handheld scanners may be constrained to move in only one or two directions when pressed against a surface containing an object to be scanned. As in a flatbed scanner successive outputs of the image array are captured and assembled into an image. Though without mechanical constraints imposed on relative motion of the image array and the object being scanned accurately assembling successive outputs of the image array into an image is more complicated.

In some instances handheld scanners are intended to only be effective on relatively small items such as business cards so that there are a relatively small number of outputs to be assembled into the image. In other instances use of a handheld scanner is cumbersome requiring a user to move the scanner in a predetermined pattern. For example a user may be instructed to move the scanner across the object so that the output of the image array represents parallel strips of the object that can be relatively easily assembled into a composite image. In other cases the output of handheld scanner is simply accepted as imperfect appearing fuzzy or distorted as a result of the successive outputs of the image array being inaccurately assembled into an image.

A computer peripheral that may be used as a scanning device may be implemented through the use of one or more curved reflective segments to provide one or more compact optical paths within a housing of the device.

In some embodiments an apparatus for use as a hand held scanner comprises a housing defining a window a light emitting component adapted and configured to emit light to illuminate the window an image array and a concave reflective segment coupled to the housing in a location such that the concave reflective segment redirects and focuses light passing through the window in an optical path to the image array.

In other embodiments there is provided an apparatus for use as a scanner mouse. The apparatus comprises a housing comprising a lower surface the lower surface having a window formed therein and a circuit assembly comprising an upper surface an image array disposed on the upper surface and a light emitting element disposed on the upper surface. The apparatus also comprises a first reflective segment within the housing the first reflective segment being shaped and positioned to reflect and focus light passing through the window in an optical path to the image array and a second reflective segment within the housing the second reflective segment being shaped and positioned to reflect and spread light from the light emitting element in the optical path to the window.

In further embodiments there is provided a component for use in a computer peripheral for use as a scanner mouse. The component comprises a top surface side walls extending from the top surface the top surface and side walls bounding a cavity with edges of the side walls defining an opening to the cavity a first concave reflective segment disposed within the cavity a second concave reflective segment disposed within the cavity a first convex reflective segment disposed within the cavity and a second convex reflective segment disposed within the cavity.

The inventors have recognized and appreciated that a handheld scanning device may be implemented by incorporating components that provide compact optical paths within a housing for the device. By providing compact optical paths significant flexibility is enabled for the size and shape of the exterior housing allowing the housing to be ergonomically designed to fit in a human hand. The flexibility allows controls to be integrated into exterior surfaces of the housing. Such controls may be used to provide functionality when the device is used for scanning but also to allow the device to be operated in a mouse mode in which it performs functions of a conventional computer mouse.

In some embodiments compact optical paths are provided through the use of curved reflective segments. The curved reflective segments may comprise concave portions which tend to focus the light traveling along an optical path. The curved reflective segments may comprise convex portions which tend to spread the light traveling along an optical path. In some embodiments the curved reflective segments may have compound curves such that they provide reflective surfaces that are concave in some dimensions and convex in others.

Through appropriate selection of the curvature of the segments light from light emitting elements may be directed towards a window through which an object is imaged. The light may be spread uniformly across the window without the need for expensive lenses. Conversely curved reflective elements may be used to redirect and focus light reflecting from the object being imaged so that the light strikes an image array. Through appropriate selection and positioning of curved reflective elements an image of an object within the window may be projected on the image array without the need for a lens or with a lens of low refractive power which may be obtained relatively inexpensively.

The curved reflective components may be positioned such that both the light emitting elements and the image array can be mounted on an upper surface of the same printed circuit board. Integrating components in this fashion further reduces cost and provides for more space within the interior of the housing than would result from using a separate assembly to mount light emitting elements.

When these techniques are applied in a scanner mouse the scanner mouse can be coupled to a computer using known techniques for connecting computer peripherals to a computer. Image processing techniques may be implemented by programming a computer to which the scanner mouse is coupled. A scanned image may be rendered to a user of the scanner mouse using a display for the computer. Though it should be appreciated that it is not a requirement that a composite image formed using techniques as described herein be displayed to a user. In some embodiments the composite image may be passed to software applications or other components within or coupled to the computer for processing.

Turning to an example is provided of a system employing techniques as described herein. System comprises a computer a scanning device is coupled to the computer and an object to be scanned. shows as an example of a scanning device scanner mouse which is here shown coupled to computer as a computer peripheral.

Components of system may be supported on any suitable surface . In this example surface is a flat horizontal surface such as a desk or a table. Such a surface is suitable for scanning objects such as pieces of paper containing text or photographs. Though it is not a requirement that all of the components of the system be supported on the same surface or even that the surface be horizontal or flat. It is also not a requirement that the object be paper.

Object may be of any suitable size type and may comprise any suitable content. For example the content of object may be of any textual image or graphical form or a combination thereof. In addition the content of object may be of any gradient. As regards a size of the scanned object it may vary from for example a business or credit card or smaller to a document of dimensions that are equal to or exceed 4 inches per side. Moreover in some embodiments object may comprise a piece of paper that is larger than 7 inches by 10 inches or a much larger object such as a poster.

Computing device may be any suitable computing device such as a personal computer. Scanner mouse may be coupled to computing device via any suitable wired or wireless connection. For example a Universal Serial Bus USB connector may be employed to couple computer mouse to computing device . Processing of images collected by scanner mouse and visualization of results of the processing may be controlled via for example one or more processors of computing device as discussed in more detail below.

In some embodiments of the invention image stitching comprising creating a composite image from a stream of image frames captured by the scanning device as an object is scanned may be performed by any suitable components of computing device . Both coarse positioning of the image frames and a subsequent finer alignment of the image frames to generate a final composite image may be performed within computing device . Though in some embodiments information on the image frames comprising positional and rotational data and image data may be pre processed in the scanning device in any suitable way. Further in some embodiments some or all of the steps of the image stitching process may be performed within the scanning device such as scanner mouse . In yet further embodiments generation of the composite image may be performed in a server or other computing device coupled to a computer over a network or otherwise geographically remote from scanner mouse . Accordingly the processing of the image frames may be apportioned in any suitable way between the scanner mouse computer peripheral and one or more computing devices.

System comprises the scanning device which is in this example incorporated into a computer mouse and is therefore referred to as scanner mouse . Object placed on supporting surface may be scanned by moving scanner mouse over object in any suitable manner. In particular in accordance with some embodiments of the invention motion of scanner mouse is not constrained within the plane defined by surface and a person moving scanner mouse may move it freely back and forth over object until the entire object is scanned.

In this example scanner mouse may comprise a button that enables a user to switch between a scanner mode and a mouse mode. In the scanner mode scanner mouse operates as a scanner while in the mouse mode the scanning device functions as a pointing device commonly known as a computer mouse. Button may be incorporated in a body of scanner mouse in any suitable manner. In this example button incorporated in the body of scanner mouse in a location that would be below a thumb of the user grasping the mouse. Because scanner mouse incorporates the functionality of a conventional computer mouse the device may comprise any other input elements such as a wheel one or more buttons or keys and others collectively indicated in as elements . Though it should be appreciated that scanner mouse may comprise any suitable elements as embodiments of the invention are not limited in this respect.

In some embodiments depressing button may place scanner mouse in a scanning mode in which it generates image data in conjunction with navigation information indicating position of the scanner mouse at times when the image data was acquired. Depressing button may also generate a signal to computer to indicate that image data representing a scan of an object is being sent. Releasing button may have the opposite result reverting scanner mouse to a mode in which it generates conventional mouse navigation data and appropriately signaling computer of the changed nature of the data generated by scanner mouse .

Though it should be appreciated that any suitable control mechanism may be used to switch between modes. Button may be omitted in some embodiments of the invention. Accordingly the switching between the scanner and mouse modes may be performed via any suitable alternative means. Thus any components suitable to receive user input for switching between the modes may be employed. For example in some embodiments the switching between the scanner and mouse modes may be performed via computing device . In such scenarios any suitable control included within a user interface of display device may be used to accept input instructing scanner mouse to switch between the mouse and scanner modes. In addition in some embodiments scanner mouse may automatically switch between the scanner and mouse modes in response to a trigger. An example of a trigger may be associated with a determination that the scanning device is placed over an object e.g. a document to be scanned. Also the scanning device may automatically switch between the modes based on certain characteristics of the scanned object.

As shown in computing device may be associated with any suitable display device . Display device may include a monitor comprising a user interface. The user interface may be for example a graphical user interface which accepts user inputs via devices such as a computer keyboard and scanner mouse used in a mode as a conventional computer peripheral. It should be appreciated that system may comprise any other suitable components which are not shown for simplicity of representation. Display device may be used to present to the user an image of object as object is being scanned. During scanning display may depict portions of object that have been traced over by movement of scanner mouse . Such a display may be rendered quickly such that the user perceives the display being painted in real time during scanning. In addition display may present a final image is formed through the scanning.

Computing device may comprise image manipulation software so that a user may make modifications to or otherwise process a displayed composite image. Such processing that may be effectuated in any fashion and via any suitable means. Accordingly the user may be enabled to control the way in which the composite image is presented on the display device. For example the user may instruct that the composite image be presented to the user in an enlarged form. Alternatively when the object being scanned is large e.g. a poster a respective composite image may be displayed at a smaller scale. Furthermore the composite image may be presented in a modified form automatically for example to suit a particular application or in response to characteristics of the scanned object.

In addition in some embodiments a suitable component of computing device may be used to adjust a size of the composite image displayed on display device . The size of the composite image may be adjusted in accordance with a way in which the user moves the scanning device over the object being scanned. Further the user may be allowed e.g. via a user interface to select any suitable format for the composite image which may be performed during the scanning process or at any other suitable time. Moreover in some embodiments the size of the composite image may be adjusted e.g. cropped skewed or scaled to provide an aspect ratio and or size suitable to a known page format such as for example ANSI A ANSI B and any other suitable formats.

In embodiments in which the scanning device can operate in a scanning mode and as a convention computer peripheral such as a mouse scanner mouse may comprise any suitable components for it to operate as a conventional computer peripheral. In addition scanner mouse has an image capture capability and may therefore output image data representing object being scanned as a sequence of successive image frames. Accordingly scanner mouse includes components for capturing image frames of an object which may include a light source an image array and suitable optical elements such as lenses and mirrors to provide optical paths between the light source and object and between object and the image array.

In addition scanner mouse may provide position information in conjunction with image data. Accordingly scanner mouse may comprise navigation sensors shown in as sensors and . Sensors and may comprise sensors as known in the art e.g. laser sensors of mouse design. Though the scanning device in accordance with some embodiments of the invention may comprise any suitable number of navigation sensors of any type.

Each of the navigation sensors and separately senses a motion of scanner mouse in x and y directions which may be taken as two orthogonal directions in the plane defined by the lower surface of scanner mouse . As a result a rotation of scanner mouse in that plane denoted as may be derived either in scanner mouse or in computing device from outputs of navigation sensors and

In some embodiments navigation sensors and may be positioned at an adjacent window . This positioning may help ensure that when the scanning device is placed on an object being scanned such as a piece of paper the navigation sensors do not protrude beyond the edges of the piece of paper. Nevertheless the distance between the navigation sensors may be set to be large enough for the navigation sensors to be able to calculate rotational displacement of the scanning device with sufficient resolution. Accordingly illustrates navigation sensors and on opposing sides of window . Though any suitable positioning of such sensors may be used.

Alternatively or additionally other types of sensors may be included in scanner mouse . As an example of another variation instead of or in addition to laser sensors used to implement navigation sensors and scanner mouse may comprise other types of sensors that can collect navigation information nonlimiting examples of which include one or more accelerometers gyroscopes and inertial measurement unit IMU devices. In addition to navigation information such sensors may provide information on the user s current activity and may signify motion of the scanner mouse that triggers operations relating to scanning. For example a rapid back and forth movement detected by a repeated alternating high acceleration detected by such sensors may be interpreted as a user input that ends the scanning process and discards an image acquired.

As an example of another variation a contact sensor that may enable a rapid and reliable detection of the scanning device being lifted may be included. An output of a sensor indicating that scanner mouse has been lifted off a page being scanned may trigger an end or restart of a scanning process. In some embodiments a contact image sensors CISs may be implemented as additional optical components a light source and an image sensor incorporated into one module. Though it should be appreciated that outputs of an image array that captures image frames of an object being scanned may similarly indicate that the scanner mouse has been lifted.

It should be appreciated that scanner mouse may further comprise other components that implement mouse and scanner functionalities of the scanning device. Thus scanner mouse may comprise a processor memory a power supply a light source various optical elements a USB interface and any other suitable components. The bottom surface of scanner mouse shown in may also comprise pads as known in the art to aid in sliding the scanner mouse.

Scanner mouse also comprises one or more image sensors which are shown by way of example only as an image array . The image array may be a two dimensional matrix of sensing elements which may be of any suitable type. Though it should be appreciated that any suitable image sensor may be utilized. Image array may be positioned in box in order to capture images of objects visible through window .

Further scanner mouse may comprise a light source which is represented here by way of example only as light array . Light array may comprise one or more arrays or Light Emitting Diodes LED or other suitable light emitting components. Additionally scanner mouse may comprise optical components which are not shown for simplicity of representation. The optical components such as lens module s may provide an optical path. Any suitable systems of mirrors prisms and other components may form the optical path to direct light from light arrays through window and to receive light from an object to be image through window and direct it to image array .

In some embodiments light array may be configured such that the light reaching window provides uniform illumination over window . Though if uniform illumination is not achieved suitable calibration techniques may be used. Also light array and image array and the optical components creating optical paths between those components and window may be arranged in such a way that the optical path for the incident light does not interfere with the optical path to the image array .

Various user controls coupled to processor may be used to receive user input for controlling operation the scanner mouse . User controls may comprise for example one or more keys a scroll wheel e.g. input elements shown in and an input element for switching between the mouse and scan modes e.g. button in .

Operation of scanner mouse may be controlled by processor . Processor may be any suitable processor including a microcontroller a Field Programmable Gate Array FPGA Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC or any other integrated circuit collection of integrated circuits or discrete components that can be configured to perform the functions described herein.

Processor may be configured to perform the functions described herein based on computer executable instructions stored in a memory . Memory may be part of the same component as processor or may be a separate component. Computer executable instructions in memory may be in any suitable format such as microcode or higher level instructions. In some embodiments though memory may be achieved by a circuit configuration that provides fixed inputs.

Accordingly components of scanner mouse may be coupled to processor . Thus it may be that processor may receive and respond to an input indicating that the scanner mouse should switch between the mouse mode and scan mode. Additionally processor may receive and respond to inputs from various sensors e.g. the image sensors such as image array navigation sensors and and others .

Processor may also generate control signals that turn on light array and trigger image array to capture an image frame. In some embodiments these actions may be synchronized such that light array is on while image array is capturing an image but off otherwise to conserve power.

Processor may store process and or forward to other image data. In some embodiments processor may temporarily buffer image data in memory . Accordingly memory may represent one or more types of storage media and need not be dedicated to storing computer executable instructions such that memory may alternatively or additionally store image data acquired from image array .

The image array may be controlled to acquire image frames of the scanned object at a frame rate that allows acquiring overlapping image frames even when a user moves the rapidly scanner mouse over the scanned object. In some embodiments the frame rate and an angle of view may be adjustable. These settings may together define a size of an overlapping area of two sequential image frames.

In some embodiments image array is controlled to capture an image frames at a rate of about 60 frames per second. A frame rate of 60 frames per second may be employed in an embodiment in which the optical system captures an image frame represent an area of an object that has a smallest dimension on the order of about 1.5 cm. Based on physics of human motion that suggest a human is unlikely to move scanner mouse at a rate faster than approximately 0.4 m sec such parameters provide an overlap from one image frame to a next image frame of at least 50 . Such an overlap may ensure reliable registration of one image frame to a next which may be used as a form of coarse positioning of image frames. As a specific example image array and the optical components not shown may be adapted to capture image frames representing an area of object having a minimum dimension between 1 cm and 5 cm. Such a system may operate at a frame rate between about 30 frames per second and about 100 frames per second. Though any suitably sized array may be used with any suitable frame rate.

It should be appreciated that image array may be triggered to capture images in any suitable manner. Scanner mouse may comprise any suitable component or components that keep track of time and determines times when images are captured. Accordingly in the example illustrated scanner mouse may comprise control circuitry that includes clock which may be a component as is known in the art that generates signals that control the time at which one or more operations with scanner mouse are performed. In the embodiment illustrated clock is shown coupled to image array and may control image array to capture images at periodic time intervals. In some embodiments operation of other components such as navigation sensors and and processor may also be controlled by clock . Navigation sensors and may receive a signal from clock that triggers the navigation sensors to record navigation information at a periodic rate. Additionally clock may provide a signal to processor that controls processor to read navigation information from the sensors and close to a time at which image array is triggered to capture an image. Though the specific control circuitry used to time the functions performed by scanner mouse is not critical to the invention. In some embodiments for example operation of image array may be controlled by processor so that processor triggers image array to capture an image. Also it should be appreciated that though shows a separate clock timing functions may alternatively or additionally be provided by processor .

In some embodiments processor may be part of the control circuitry that synchronizes operations of the components of scanner mouse . As a specific example conventional navigation sensors include one or more registers that store values representing detected motion since the last reset of the register. Such position registers are illustrated as registers and in . Processor may generate control signals to reset position registers and associated with navigation sensors and respectively at any suitable time. In some embodiments processor may reset the registers each time an image frame is captured. In this way the values output by navigation sensors and which are derived from the position registers and may indicate movement of scanner mouse between successive image frames. In other embodiments processor may generate control signals to reset position registers and at times when respective values are read from the registers which may occur more frequently than when an image frame is read out of image array . Regardless of when registers and are read and reset processor may maintain information indicating motion of the scanner mouse relative to its position at the start of a scan regardless of the number of image frames read. This cumulative position information may be stored in memory . In the example of memory is shown to have a register holding this cumulative position information. In this example each navigation sensor is shown to have a register and cumulative position information is shown stored in a register. This representation is used for simplicity. Navigation sensors and for example may separately store navigation information associated with motion in the x direction and the y direction. Accordingly more than one register may be present.

Regardless of the memory structure used to store such navigation information when processor reads the values from registers and the values may be used to update the values in register to reflect any additional motion of the scanner mouse since the last update of the cumulative position register .

Within the scanner mouse each image frame may be associated with navigation information that may be passed to computing device for use in determining a coarse position of the image frame within a composite image to be formed. That navigation information may be in any suitable form. For example navigation information may be expressed as frame to frame changes in position of each of the navigation sensors and from which a relative pose between frames can be determined. Though it should be appreciated that relative poses could be computed in scanner mouse and provided as the navigation information. Alternatively in some embodiments cumulative position information may be provided as the navigation information. In such embodiments the computing device may compute frame to frame changes in position of the navigation sensors and based on changes in cumulative position information. From these values relative poses between frames could be computed. Such an approach may be beneficial if there is a risk of dropped frames when image frames are transmitted through computer interface . Regardless of the specific format of the navigation information information collected by processor may be provided to another device such as computer for any suitable processing. That processing may include generating a composite image displaying it on a display device. Though in some embodiments the composite image may be at least partially created within the scanning device.

Accordingly processor may communicate with other devices through an interface such as computer interface . Scanner mouse may be coupled to a computing device such as for example computing device and in the example illustrated computer interface may implement communications between scanner mouse and computing device . Processor may control selection of such information from the image and navigation sensors forming the selected information into data packets and transmission of the data packets via computer interface to computing device . Accordingly computer interface may receive the data packets comprising data such as images captured by image and navigation sensors of scanner mouse and transmit the data to computing device as the data is received. In the embodiment illustrated computer interface may represent a conventional computer interface for connecting computer peripherals to a computing device. As a specific example computer interface may be components implementing a USB interface.

Computer interface may also be used to transfer control signals from the computing device to the scanning device. For example a signal instructing a selection of the mouse mode or the scan mode may be sent from the computing device to the scanner mouse computer peripheral. Alternatively or additionally processor may send command or status information through computer interface .

Computer interface may alternatively serve as a source of power to energize components of the scanning device. As a specific example a USB connection includes leads that per the USB standard supply up to 500 microAmps of power. Though in some embodiments the scanning device may communicate wirelessly with the computing device. In such scenarios the scanning device may be powered by battery. In addition the scanning device may be powered in any suitable manner including via means combining wired and wireless functionalities.

In this example light array is connected to power source which draws power through computer interface . In some embodiments light arrays require more power than can be supplied through computer interface . Accordingly light arrays may be strobed only while an image is being captured. Strobing may reduce the average power. To provide an appropriate power when light arrays are on power source may contain an energy storage device. As a specific example power source may contain a 1000 microFarad capacitor that is charged from computer interface and discharged to supply power when light array is strobed.

The components illustrated in may be operated in a scan mode in which scanner mouse is moved over a scanned object and a stream of image frames is acquired. The image frames may be passed to a computing device for processing into a composite image. The composite image may be used by different applications. illustrates an exemplary system that may generate and use a composite image.

In this example scanner mouse may be coupled with computing device . It should be appreciated that any suitable scanning and computing devices may be used as embodiments of the invention are not limited in this respect. Moreover some embodiments of the invention may be implemented in a device incorporating functionalities of both the scanning device and the computing device as described herein.

In the example illustrated computing device may comprise framework which comprises any suitable components having computer executable instructions for implementing functions as described herein. In framework a hardware abstraction layer may operate as an interface between the physical hardware of computer and software components. In embodiments in which scanner mouse communicates over a standard computer interface HAL may be a component of a conventional operating system. Though any suitable HAL may be provided.

At a higher level framework comprises core that may perform processing of image and navigation information as described to generate a composite image. Core may comprise a preprocessor for preprocessing the image and navigation information which may be performed in any suitable manner. For example preprocessing may entail extracting features from image frames to support feature based image matching. Though preprocessor may preprocess image data and navigation information in any suitable way.

The preprocessed information may be the basis for processing to provide coarse and fine positioning of image frames. In the example illustrated in a component denoted by way of example only as Fast track of core may perform the coarse positioning of image frames. Core also comprises a component denoted by way of example only as Quality track which may perform the fine positioning of image frames.

In some embodiments successive image frames collected during a scan of an object are represented as a network stored as a data structure in computer memory. The data structure may be configured in any suitable way to represent each image frame as a node in network . Edges between each pair of nodes may represent relative positioning of the image frames. Initially nodes may be added to network by fast track as image frames are received from scanner mouse . The initial edges in the network may be based on relative positions which may be derived from coarse positioning information generated by fast track processing . However quality tack processing may access network and make fine adjustments to the edges in the network.

In some embodiments processing in fast tack is independent of processing in quality tack . Moreover processing in quality track can be performed without the entire network being constructed. Accordingly fast tack processing and quality tack processing may be performed in separate processes. Separate processes may be implemented using features of computer systems as are known in the art. Many conventional computer systems have operating systems that provide separate processes sometimes called threads. In embodiments in which computer contains a multi core processor each process may execute in a separate core. Though it is not a requirement that fast tack and quality tack processing be performed in separate cores or even in separate processes.

Upon completion of processing of all image frames of a scan network may contain a final composite image representing scanned object . A position can be assigned to each node in the network based on the position information defined by the edges of the network. Thus the composite image can be represented by the collection of the image frames in positions indicated in the network. The edges in the network may be directional to preserve the order in which image frames were acquired. Accordingly in embodiments in which an later image frame partially or totally overlaps an earlier image frame the portion of the composite image where there is overlap may be represented by the most recently acquired composite image. Though any suitable approach may be used to determine the content of a composite image when image frames overlap. The overlapping portions of the image frames for example could be average on a pixel by pixel basis.

Further it should be appreciated that during scan operation network contains a representation of a composite image. Though the image frames may be imprecisely positioned relative to each other creating a blurring or jagged appearance to the composite image if displayed.

To allow the composite image to be used outside of core or to allow components outside of core to control the image generation processes core may communicate with other components via a core application programming interface API .

In framework may also comprise user interface tools providing different functionalities related to processing a composite image generated by core . These user interface tools may directly interface with a user such as through a graphical user interface. Though such user interface tools may interact with applications that in turn are interacting with a user or a running in response to actions by a user.

User interface tools may be perform any suitable functions. An example of one tool may be a renderer here implemented in software. Render may access network through API and render a composite image on a user interface of any suitable display such as display . The renderer may render a completed composite image. Though in some embodiments renderer may continuously update the display as image frames are being added to network by fast track processing and image frames are adjusted in the network by quality tack processing . In this way a user operating a scanning mouse may see the progress of the scan which areas of an object have been scanned and which areas remain to be scanned.

In addition to rendering a composite image for a user user interface tools may receive user inputs that control operation of core . For example user inputs may trigger a scan end a scan reset a scan or discard a scanned image. Further in some embodiments user inputs may control the size or aspect ratio of a scanned image or otherwise input values of parameters used in operation of core .

User interface tools may be implemented in any suitable way to perform any suitable functions. In this example components implemented according to DirectX and OpenGL are shown by way of example only. User interface tools may comprise components implemented in any suitable way.

Moreover user interface elements may exchange image data and commands with applications rather than directly with a human user. A composite image of the scanned object may be utilized by any suitable application executed by computing device or any other suitable device. The applications may be developed for any suitable platforms. In the example of applications such as Win32 application Win64 application Mac OS X application and Others . . . are shown by way of example only. Though it should be appreciated that any suitable applications may utilize the composite image generated using techniques described herein as embodiments of the invention are not limited in this respect.

Framework may operate in conjunction with any suitable applications that can utilize and or further process the composite image in any suitable way. Different applications that can be stored in memory of computing device or be otherwise associated with computing device e.g. via the Internet may enable processing of the image information to extract any suitable information. Thus some of such applications may determine context and other different properties of the image information. The image information may also be analyzed to extract and process content of the image which may involve identifying whether the image comprises a business or a credit card pictures notes text geometric shapes or any other elements. Any suitable text and image recognition applications may be utilized. Further any suitable statistical information on the image content may be extracted.

In scenarios where the image information on the scanned object comprises text suitable applications may detect certain information in the text and provide the user with additional information related to the text. For example in one embodiment an application may identify certain words in the text for example those that are not included in a dictionary and obtain information relating to these words e.g. via the computing device connected to the Internet . The application can also identify the relevance of word groups sentences and paragraphs which may then by highlighted on the composite image via any suitable means. As another example a suitable application may detect literature references in the text and in response the references may also be obtained via the Internet. Thus a composite image generated by framework may be used in any suitable way and the manner in which it is used is not critical to the invention.

Though scanner mouse could be assembled by packaging components as are known in the art for implementing a mouse in the same housing as components as are known in the art for implementing a handheld scanner a scanner mouse assembled in this fashion may have undesirable characteristics for use as a computer peripheral. The inventors have recognized and appreciated that merely combining conventional components leads to a device that is too large to be comfortably held within the hand of a computer user. A need to provide space within the peripheral for optical paths may further limit options for shaping an exterior housing of the device. A housing for a computer peripheral may enclose an optical path between a window through which an object being imaged is visible and an image array. One or more optical paths may also be provided between one or more light emitting elements and the window. Providing a housing that encloses these optical paths if the optical paths are implemented using conventional components tends to limit the ergonomic appeal of such a device. Further a design combining conventional components may be relatively costly to produce both because of the cost of some of the components individually and because of the cost of assembly of these components.

In the embodiment illustrated scanner mouse includes a curved reflective segment to form an optical path between window and image array . In the illustrated embodiment multiple curved reflective segments and provide a compact optical path between window and image array . Curved reflective segments may also be used to provide compact optical paths between each of light emitting elements A and B and window . In this embodiment light emitting elements A and B perform the function of light array of illuminating objects within window .

These components are packaged within a housing which in this example is shown to have an upper outer housing portion A and a lower outer housing portion B. Though a housing may be assembled from any suitable number of components. Each of the upper outer housing portion A and lower outer housing portion B may be molded from plastic using techniques as are known in the art. Though any suitable techniques may be used for forming the housing. When scanner mouse is assembled upper outer housing portion A and lower outer housing portion B may be held together in any suitable way including through the use of an adhesive snap fit elements that interlock when the portions are pressed together or screws or other fasteners.

Regardless of how outer housing portions A and B are held together when assembled they may enclose components for forming images of an object visible through window . The housing may provide mechanical support for these components in a format that can easily fit within a human hand so that a human user may move the scanner mouse to operate it as a conventional mouse or as a scanning device. The housing may serve other functions. It may protect the optical components from dust or environmental contamination. In addition it may block ambient light other than the light traveling along an intended optical path from window from reaching image array .

Upper outer housing portion and lower outer housing portion B may be shaped to incorporate exterior features as in a conventional mouse. Upper outer housing portion A may include one or more buttons that a user may click. Other user controls such as a wheel may also be incorporated in either upper outer housing portion A or lower outer housing portion B such that they are accessible on the exterior surfaces of outer housing of scanner mouse . However such conventional components are not illustrated for simplicity.

The housing portions may also enclose one or more of the components illustrated in as forming a portion of a scanner mouse. The included components may among other functions output navigation information as in a conventional mouse. Other components as in a conventional mouse may also be included. For example though not shown in a cable may be used to couple scanner mouse to a computer. Alternatively in some embodiments a wireless transmitter receiver may be included in scanner mouse to support wireless communication rather than communication over a cable.

For simplicity shows only components related to optical paths through the housing of scanner mouse . Other components such as those that interface to a computer or control operation of scanner mouse in scan mode are not expressly shown. However according to some embodiments those components may be mounted on a circuit assembly that also contains components used in forming images in scan mode.

In the embodiment of scanner mouse includes a circuit assembly holding components for controlling operation of scanner mouse interfacing to a computer as well as for capturing images. In the embodiment of the circuit assembly is implemented as printed circuit board . In addition to image array and lighting elements A and B circuit components illustrated in included on printed circuit board may include processor memory and computer interface .

Though not shown in navigation sensors such as navigation sensors and may be electrically coupled to processor of circuit board such as through wires. Navigation sensors and may be attached to lower housing portion B so as to position the navigation sensors adjacent a lower surface of scanner mouse when scanner mouse is placed against a surface such as surface .

In this example printed circuit board is the only printed circuit board within scanner mouse . One way in which a low cost compact scanner mouse is implemented in some embodiments is by providing optical paths that allow components that illuminate window and that capture an image of an object within window to be mounted on a single printed circuit board such as printed circuit board . Mounting the components on a single side of printed circuit board may further reduce cost. As can be seen in light emitting elements A and B along with image array are mounted on the upper surface of printed circuit board . This arrangement is made possible in part through the use of curved reflective segments and .

In operation in scan mode to acquire an image light emitting elements A and B are energized so that they emit light. Light emitting elements A and B may be turned on by processor or controlled in any other suitable way. The light from light emitting element A impinges upon reflective segment . That light is redirected from reflective segment towards window . Similarly light from light emitting element B impinges on reflective segment . From reflective segment the light is redirected towards window . The positioning of light emitting elements A and B in combination with the curved shape of reflective segments and provides a relatively uniform illumination across window .

In this example window is elongated in the direction illustrated as the X direction by the legend in . To provide a relatively uniform illumination reflective segments and are shaped to spread light from light emitting elements A and B respectively along the X direction. For this purpose reflective segment is convex if viewed in cross section in a plane parallel to the X Z plane as illustrated in the legend of . Reflective segment is similarly convex. As a result a small number of light emitting elements may be used to provide adequately uniform illumination across window . In this example two light emitting elements are shown. Though it should be recognized that in some embodiments a single light emitting element may be used or more than two light emitting elements may be used.

Regardless of the specific number of light emitting elements used having a small number of light emitting elements allows them to be physically placed on printed circuit board even though printed circuit board includes components to perform other functions for a scanner mouse. The redirection provided by reflective segments and enables the light emitting elements A and B to be on the upper surface of printed circuit board even though it is parallel to the lower surface of lower housing portion B containing window .

With this configuration printed circuit board includes a cutout region such that light from light emitting elements on the upper surface of printed circuit board may pass through window below printed circuit board . Though other shapes and mounting configurations for printed circuit board may also be suitable.

The spreading in the beams of light emitted by light emitting elements A and B allows a relatively short optical path between light emitting elements A and B and window . A short optical path may be achieved without lenses over light emitting elements A and B. Though in some embodiments lenses may be used. If lenses are used spreading provided by convex reflective segments and allows the use of lenses that have lower refractive power than if reflective segments and were not convex. Because lenses with higher refractive power generally are more expensive than lenses of similar quality with lower refractive power the ability to use lenses of lower refractive power may reduce the overall cost of scanner mouse even if a lens is employed. Though even further cost reduction may be possible if lenses are omitted entirely.

Curved reflective segments and may have complex curves to shape the beams of light from light emitting elements A and B to generally match the shape of window . In the embodiment illustrated curved reflective segments and are convex in a plane parallel to the X Z direction but are not convex in a transverse direction such as in cross section in a plane parallel to the Y Z plane illustrated in the legend of . To the contrary reflective segments and are concave in cross section in planes parallel to the Y Z plane. The concave nature of the cross section focuses light from light emitting elements A and B respectively as it is redirected towards window .

In this example reflective segments and are convex in the X Z dimension and concave in the Y Z dimension such that light from light emitting elements A and B has a generally rectangular pattern that conforms to the rectangular shape of window . Because window is elongated in the X dimension spreading of illumination in the X direction leads to more uniform illumination. Focusing in the Y direction increases the percentage of the energy emitted by light emitting elements A and B impinging on window while still providing uniform illumination in the Y direction. One of skill in the art will recognize that the radii of curvature of reflective segments and may be selected to achieve a desired illumination pattern over window and therefore may depend on the dimensions of window as well as positioning of reflective segments and relative to light emitting elements A and B. Appropriate dimensions and radii of curvature may be selected empirically through calculation or in any other suitable way. Also it should be appreciated that sufficiently uniform illumination may be achieved without radiant energy density being exactly equal at all points across window . Some variation in illumination intensity may be unnoticeable in an image rendered by computer . In other instances calibration techniques may be employed to compensate for variation in illumination across window . Accordingly an illumination pattern that is sufficiently equal to provide good quality images after compensation techniques may be regarded as uniform and dimensions of curved reflective segments and may be selected accordingly.

One or more curved reflective segments may also used to redirect light passing through window in an optical path to image array . In this embodiment light from window impinges on curved reflective segment . The light reflects from curved reflective segment and impinges upon curved reflective segment . From curved reflective segment light is redirected through lens to image array . In this example curved reflective segments and are both concave. The concave shape of reflective segment focuses light passing through window onto reflective segment . For this reason reflective segment may have a smaller reflective area than the reflective area of reflective segment .

Upon reflection from reflective segment light is further focused as it is redirected towards lens . In some embodiments the focusing power provided by the concave shape of reflective segments and may focus light from window into a sufficiently small area that the light may directly illuminate an area that is equal to or smaller than the area of image array . Though in some embodiments the focusing provided by reflective segments and may not be adequate and a lens such as lens may be employed. Though the refractive power of lens may be less than would be required without the focusing provided by reflective segment and or reflective segment . Accordingly lens may be of lower cost that would be required without the focusing provided by the concave shape of curved reflective segments and .

In this example curved reflective segments and are convex in cross section in a plane parallel to the X Z plane and in cross section in a plane parallel to the Y Z plane. In the example illustrated the radii of curvature in each of these dimensions may be approximately equal. Such an embodiment may be useful for example if the active area of image array has the same ratio of dimensions as window even though image array is smaller than window . In this scenario approximately equal focusing power in the X and Y directions may be desirable. Though it is not a requirement that the radii of curvature in each of these planes be equal. Rather the radii of curvature may be selected such that the projection of window upon image array fits within the active area of image array .

Interior surface of upper outer housing portion A is also visible in . In the embodiment illustrated the curved reflective segments and are each formed as separate components that are then attached to interior surface . The curved reflective segments and may be made in any suitable way. Those components could be formed from a metallic material that is polished on at least one surface. Alternatively the components could be made by attaching a minor or other similarly reflective component in a holder for attachment. Though in some embodiments each of the components may be formed from plastic or other material that is easily formed into a desired shape. A surface of that component may then be coated to make it reflective. Conventional coating processes may be employed including vapor deposition processes to form a reflective coating directly on the plastic or application of a conductive film through the use of adhesive or in any suitable way.

Regardless of how formed the reflective segments may be coupled to upper outer housing portion A in any suitable way. In this example interior surface includes attachment features such as attachment feature that engage complementary attachment features on the reflective segments and . In the embodiment illustrated attachment feature is a hole exposed in interior surface . Attachment feature is a post adapted to fit within hole . The post may be held within the hole in any suitable way including through the use of an interference fit through the use of adhesives welding or any other suitable construction technique.

In the embodiment illustrated each of the reflective segments includes attachment features similar to attachment feature positioned to engage attachment features similar to attachment feature on lower surface . Though it is not a requirement that all of the reflective segments be attached to the same portion of the outer housing or that all reflective segments be coupled to the outer housing in the same way.

In the example of light entering the housing through window travels along a segment Pof an optical path to concave reflective segment . At concave reflective segment the light is redirected and focused along segment Pof the optical path. Segment Pleads to concave reflective segment . From concave reflective segment the light is again redirected and focused along segment P. Segment Pleads to lens .

Similarly light from a second light emitting element not visible in travels along a segment not visible in to convex reflective segment . Convex reflective segment is convex in at least one aspect to spread the light in the X direction. At convex reflective segment the light is redirected and spread along path P. Segment Pleads to window .

Additionally from the view of the complex curvature of certain curved segments particularly curved reflective segments and is visible. As can be seen in segments and are each convex along an axis parallel to the X direction. Though curved reflective segments and are concave in the Y direction. This complex curvature provides for spreading the beam in the X direction which corresponds to the elongated dimension of window but provides focusing in the Y direction which corresponds to the narrow dimension of window . Though it should be appreciated that the nature of the complex curvature may depend on the shape of the window through which objects are imaged in combination with characteristics of the optical path between the light emitting elements and the window.

In the embodiment illustrated in scanner mouse includes a lower outer housing in portion B that may be the same as in scanner mouse . The circuitry and light emitting elements may also be the same as in scanner mouse . Accordingly scanner mouse is shown with printed circuit board enclosed within the housing formed by lower outer housing portion B and upper outer housing portion A.

Scanner mouse similarly includes curved reflective segments to provide compact optical paths within the housing. However in this embodiment rather than forming reflective segments as separate components that are then coupled to the outer housing curved reflective segments may be formed by first integrally forming curved segments with a housing portion and then applying a reflective coating to the curved segments. In curved segments and are visible. In illustrating an enlarged view of an interior surface of upper outer housing portion A curved segments and are also visible.

In this example in which scanner mouse has the same form factor as scanner mouse the curved segments and each have an exposed surface that has the same shape as a reflective surface of one of the curved reflective members and respectively. That curved surface is covered with a reflective coating or respectively. Such a reflective coating may be formed in any suitable way including though the use of techniques as are known in the art for forming reflective coatings. As an example the reflective coatings and may be formed by attaching a film of metal or other reflective material to the curved segments or . A film of metal may be attached with an adhesive or in any other suitable way. Though as another alternative a reflective coating may be applied to plastic or other material from which upper outer housing portion A is constructed using vapor coating techniques or other suitable deposition techniques to deposit a metallic layer or other suitably reflective coating on the curved segments.

Though curved reflective segments may be incorporated inside a housing of a scanner mouse in any suitable way integrally forming the curved segments with the housing may simplify manufacturing and therefore reduce cost of a scanner mouse. However in some instances it may be desirable to provide flexibility in manufacturing a scanner mouse. In the example of scanner mouse has the same form factor as scanner mouse . However in this example upper outer housing portion A is not customized in any way to incorporate components to provide compact optical paths within the housing of scanner mouse . Rather scanner mouse includes a separate component to support curved reflective segments.

Component is illustrated in . Component includes a top surface and sidewalls extending generally perpendicularly from the top surface. The sidewalls have edges that define a boundary to a cavity in component . Curved reflective segments are positioned within that cavity.

The curved reflective segments may be constructed in any suitable way including using separable components as illustrated in which are then attached to component . As an alternative curved segments may be integrally formed with component and then coated to provide reflective surfaces. In the embodiment illustrated in this latter approach is illustrated.

Component may be manufactured by molding the top surface and sidewalls of a suitable material such as plastic. As part of the molding operation curved segments and may be formed within the cavity defined by top surface and sidewalls . These segments may provide surfaces that have the same general shape as the reflective surfaces of curved reflective segments and . A reflective layer and may then be formed on these curved segments providing a combination of concave and convex reflective segments that leads to compact optical paths as described in connection with above.

Returning to scanner mouse may be assembled by inserting printed circuit board into lower outer housing portion B and placing component over printed circuit board . Upper outer housing portion A may then be secured to lower outer housing portion B. Securing the housing portions together may also serve to secure component to the outer housing of scanner mouse thereby coupling the curved reflective segments within component to the outer housing. Though component may be held within the outer housing of scanner mouse in any suitable way including using adhesives an interference fit snap fit components or fasteners such as screws.

In some embodiments employing a separate component such as component to provide curved reflective segments may promote flexibility in manufacturing scanner mouse . Upper outer housing portion A may be replaced by an upper outer housing portion of any suitable shape without impacting either the design or operation of scanner mouse . Accordingly a manufacturer of a scanner mouse may design upper outer housing portion A to have any desired shape and to incorporate any suitable control elements such as buttons or a wheel. Such flexibility for example may allow a mouse manufacturer to have a line of mouse products some of which include scanner mouse functionality and some which do not. Alternatively providing the curved reflective segments as part of a component separate from the housing allows mouse manufacturers to make cosmetic changes or functional changes to their products without the need to redesign components providing scan capabilities. As an additional benefit components necessary to implement a scanner mouse may be sold in a kit to mouse manufacturers. For example a kit may include component and may optionally include one or more other components such as printed circuit board with light emitting elements and an image array. By obtaining such a kit a mouse manufacturer can readily incorporate scanning capability into a mouse.

A separate component such as component may also provide operational benefits. By enclosing the optical path within a cavity in component the optical path may be better shielded from ambient light which may improve image quality. Additionally by enclosing the optical path within the cavity formed by component the components are better shielded from dust and other contaminants which may further improve image quality.

Having thus described several aspects of at least one embodiment of this invention it is to be appreciated that various alterations modifications and improvements will readily occur to those skilled in the art.

For example embodiments are described in which separate curved reflective segments are incorporated into optical paths within a scanner mouse. However it is not a requirement that each curved reflective segment be implemented as a separate component. As illustrated in curved segments and are disposed along one side of the housing. These curved segments need not be separately identifiable and could run together into a continuous segment with a continuous reflective coating. Also shows that on the opposite side of the housing curved segment is formed with separate regions of reflective coating formed on each side of the housing. However embodiments are possible in which the curved segments on opposing sides of the housing run together and have continuous reflective coating.

Such alterations modifications and improvements are intended to be part of this disclosure and are intended to be within the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the foregoing description and drawings are by way of example only.

The above described embodiments of the present invention can be implemented in any of numerous ways. For example the embodiments may be implemented using hardware software or a combination thereof. When implemented in software the software code can be executed on any suitable processor or collection of processors whether provided in a single computer or distributed among multiple computers.

Further it should be appreciated that a computer may be embodied in any of a number of forms such as a rack mounted computer a desktop computer a laptop computer or a tablet computer. Additionally a computer may be embedded in a device not generally regarded as a computer but with suitable processing capabilities including a Personal Digital Assistant PDA a smart phone or any other suitable portable or fixed electronic device.

Also a computer may have one or more input and output devices. These devices can be used among other things to present a user interface. Examples of output devices that can be used to provide a user interface include printers or display screens for visual presentation of output and speakers or other sound generating devices for audible presentation of output. Examples of input devices that can be used for a user interface include keyboards and pointing devices such as mice touch pads and digitizing tablets. As another example a computer may receive input information through speech recognition or in other audible format.

Such computers may be interconnected by one or more networks in any suitable form including as a local area network or a wide area network such as an enterprise network or the Internet. Such networks may be based on any suitable technology and may operate according to any suitable protocol and may include wireless networks wired networks or fiber optic networks.

Also the various methods or processes outlined herein may be coded as software that is executable on one or more processors that employ any one of a variety of operating systems or platforms. Additionally such software may be written using any of a number of suitable programming languages and or programming or scripting tools and also may be compiled as executable machine language code or intermediate code that is executed on a framework or virtual machine.

In this respect the invention may be embodied as a non transitory computer readable medium or multiple computer readable media e.g. a computer memory one or more floppy discs compact discs CD optical discs digital video disks DVD magnetic tapes flash memories circuit configurations in Field Programmable Gate Arrays or other semiconductor devices or other non transitory tangible computer storage medium encoded with one or more programs that when executed on one or more computers or other processors perform methods that implement the various embodiments of the invention discussed above. The computer readable medium or media can be transportable such that the program or programs stored thereon can be loaded onto one or more different computers or other processors to implement various aspects of the present invention as discussed above.

The terms program or software are used herein in a generic sense to refer to any type of computer code or set of computer executable instructions that can be employed to program a computer or other processor to implement various aspects of the present invention as discussed above. Additionally it should be appreciated that according to one aspect of this embodiment one or more computer programs that when executed perform methods of the present invention need not reside on a single computer or processor but may be distributed in a modular fashion amongst a number of different computers or processors to implement various aspects of the present invention.

Computer executable instructions may be in many forms such as program modules executed by one or more computers or other devices. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures etc. that performs particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the program modules may be combined or distributed as desired in various embodiments.

Also data structures may be stored in computer readable media in any suitable form. For simplicity of illustration data structures may be shown to have fields that are related through location in the data structure. Such relationships may likewise be achieved by assigning storage for the fields with locations in a computer readable medium that conveys relationship between the fields. However any suitable mechanism may be used to establish a relationship between information in fields of a data structure including through the use of pointers tags or other mechanisms that establish relationship between data elements.

Various aspects of the present invention may be used alone in combination or in a variety of arrangements not specifically discussed in the embodiments described in the foregoing and is therefore not limited in its application to the details and arrangement of components set forth in the foregoing description or illustrated in the drawings. For example aspects described in one embodiment may be combined in any manner with aspects described in other embodiments.

Also the invention may be embodied as a method of which an example has been provided. The acts performed as part of the method may be ordered in any suitable way. Accordingly embodiments may be constructed in which acts are performed in an order different than illustrated which may include performing some acts simultaneously even though shown as sequential acts in illustrative embodiments.

Use of ordinal terms such as first second third etc. in the claims to modify a claim element does not by itself connote any priority precedence or order of one claim element over another or the temporal order in which acts of a method are performed but are used merely as labels to distinguish one claim element having a certain name from another element having a same name but for use of the ordinal term to distinguish the claim elements.

Also the phraseology and terminology used herein is for the purpose of description and should not be regarded as limiting. The use of including comprising or having containing involving and variations thereof herein is meant to encompass the items listed thereafter and equivalents thereof as well as additional items.

