---

title: Traffic barrier pop-up bollard system
abstract: Disclosed is a self-contained, pop-up bollard barrier system () that is capable of working from a single electromechanical actuator () with a series of belts () and pulleys (A). The system () is built in two parts that once the foundation vault () is in place, the internal apparatus or bollard assembly () can be removed as a unit for maintenance or can be completely replaced with another assembly to have a brand new barrier without the need of replacing or moving any of the initial foundation. The system () enhances the ability of the contractor on site to have a self contained product that only needs wiring and requires no grease while minimizing the installation cost, which is passed on to the end user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08226322&OS=08226322&RS=08226322
owner: 
number: 08226322
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20101129
---
The present invention generally relates to traffic control barriers and more specifically to an improved self contained automatic pop up bollard system.

Traffic control devices are well known. There are numerous examples in the prior art of various devices to control or limit traffic access to restricted areas. Recent terrorist attacks have presented numerous problems for controlling traffic access to highly secured areas. Local state and federal governments have elevated concerns for securing areas from the threats of terrorists. The military has elevated concerns for securing military bases as well.

Terrorist attacks on embassies and other sites of foreign governments or corporations have become commonplace. Some of the more notorious attacks have involved terrorists driving large trucks laden with explosives through the gates of an embassy or other secured sites and detonating the explosives. In response to these attacks many such sites have installed a variety of barriers in front of their gates. However the barriers installed at these installations also obstruct the passage of authorized vehicles.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 624 600 issued on Nov. 25 1986 to R. H. Wagner et al and entitled ANTI TERRORIST VEHICLE IMPALER. This patent discloses a barrier device disposed in a trench in a roadway with an impaler arm that pivots into an oncoming vehicle when released by an explosive charge. The impaler arm is secured in place by a trigger that releases by the explosive charge and a counter weight on the opposite end of the impaler arm. The counterweight is of sufficient mass so that the pivoting impaler arm turns about the pivot under the force of gravity thereby thrusting the impaler arm above the surface of the roadway. The impaler arm projects at an angle toward a vehicle to be stopped which is impaled by the arms.

U.S. Pat. No. 4 705 426 issued on Nov. 10 1987 to B. A. Perea entitled SECURITY AND DEFENSE BARRIER discloses a vault buried within and transverse to the roadway. The vault has within a latched plurality of barrier arms that may be raised by any powered means or manually and raised barrier arms are positioned within the vault so that impact forces are transmitted directly to the vault and to a foundation and little or no load is supported by a pivoting mechanism. The raised barrier arms have a hook on the end so that the speeding vehicle attacking the barrier will be snagged and prevented from inadvertently or intentionally vaulting the barrier.

U.S. Pat. No. 5 248 215 issued Sep. 28 1993 to M. Fladung entitled ROAD BARRICADE. This patent discloses a car park barricade that is fastened to the road surface with a barricade element optionally positioned parallel to the road surface or in a position at an angle thereto. The barricade element is swiveled upwards about an axis parallel to the road surface and vertical to the blocking direction by means of a drive mechanism comprising a spindle element.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 702 512 B1 issued Mar. 9 2004 to G. S. Reale entitled VEHICLE ARRESTING INSTALLATION. This patent discloses a barrier for blocking the passage of a vehicle wherein the barrier has a bollard post positioned to obstruct a vehicle path. The post is coupled to piercing bars or pikes that are normally kept in a compact stand by state in a recessed housing bordering the vehicle path. The bars deploy pivotally when the vehicle strikes and pivots back the post. The bars or pikes impale the body of the vehicle and break away in an assembly together with the barrier post to interfere with continued or powered driving of the vehicle.

U.S. Pat. No. 6 997 638 B2 issued Feb. 14 2006 to C. J. Hensley et al entitled ANTI TERRORIST ROAD BLOCK. This patent discloses a road block having an extendible bollard that is manually or electronically actuated by a powerful spring force for slow extension and by both the spring and a power lift for rapid expansion.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 118 304 B2 issued Oct. 10 2006 to R. R. Turpin and Joey W. Blair the inventor hereof entitled AUTOMATIC SELF CONTAINED COLLAPSIBLE TRAFFIC BARRIER BOLLARD SYSTEM. This patent discloses a collapsible traffic barrier located in a steel vault. A rod is rotatably mounted to support members inside the vault wherein the rod extends across the vault from end to end. A plurality of bollards are secured to the rod near the first end thereof whereby rotation of the rod rotates the bollards upward at an angle above the roadway and into the direction of an oncoming vehicle.

U.S. Pat. No. 7 641 416 B2 issued Jan. 5 2010 to G. D. Miracle entitled VEHICLE BARRIER DEPLOYMENT SYSTEM. This patent discloses a system having at least two lifting members at least one barrier member and an actuation assembly. The lifting members are pivotally secured to a base member and are operable to be selectively raised and lowered in a vertical direction relative to the base member. The barrier member is in communication with the lifting members and is configured to stop a moving vehicle when the lifting members are in a raised position. The actuation assembly is in communication with lifting members and is operable to selectively raise and lower the lifting members by moving at least a portion of each of the lifting members in a direction transverse to the traffic lane.

All of the prior art devices suffer from one or more disadvantages that are overcome by the system and structure of the present invention disclosed hereinbelow. Most of the prior art devices discussed above will only stop vehicles going in one direction unlike the system of the present invention. As a result of the structure of the present invention vehicles may be stopped in multi directions especially both directions in a single roadway. Moreover many of the prior art devices require a lubricant or hydraulic fluid to operate which creates environmental problems.

The present invention is a pop up bollard barrier system that is to be used for restricting physical access to high security areas wherein the highest level of protection is required. The system must be capable of stopping a 15 000 pound vehicle traveling at 50 mph. Vehicle barriers of this type are currently being used in areas around the world but they are typically incapable of mechanically functioning reliably during an extended period of time. Other systems of this type are known for their complexity and are expensive to maintain plus they are very expensive to install.

The present invention eliminates the need for high maintenance costs high installation costs and mitigates environmental issues related to lubricants and hydraulic oils typically used in such devices. Moreover the present invention provides an inexpensive way to build and operate such a pop up bollard barrier system.

Referring now to the drawings and to in particular a perspective view of the system of the present invention illustrates at least three bollards and in a partially raised position. The system includes a bollard assembly which will be illustrated in B and C and amplified further hereinafter and a vault for receiving the bollard assembly which will be illustrated in and also amplified further hereinafter. In accordance with one embodiment the bollards are formed of three 12 12 steel tubes and upon activation they rise and extend from within the bollard assembly secured within the vault that is buried in the ground and then project vertically into the roadway of vehicles when access is not approved. The vault is surrounded by concrete reinforced to 3000 PSI and merges with the roadway . Each of the bollards has affixed thereto a reflector A A and A respectively. The bollard assembly is covered by a series of removable steel plates through .

With reference now to the first of a series of partially cut away elevational views of the bollard assembly is shown to include the bollards and in a sequence of movements from a fully recessed position to a partially elevated position to a fully deployed position . Again with reference to the bollard is removed in order to show bollard post which acts as a guide for the bollard to rise and fall. Bollard guide post comprises two pieces of channel steel A and B which is illustrated in greater detail in and discussed hereinbelow. Strips are made of a material known in the industry as Delrin which is an engineered thermoplastic product available from DuPont Corporation and the strips are attached to and spaced about the sides of the post . These strips provide a smooth surface for the bollards to glide over with a minimum of friction since the Delrin thermoplastic has a very low coefficient of friction. Accordingly no lubricant is required between the guide posts and the individual bollards and .

The bollard assembly is operated with a single drive mechanism in the form of an electromechanical actuator that powers the three bollards to the up and down position simultaneously. In accordance with one embodiment one end of the actuator is coupled to a pivot arm and the other end thereof is coupled to frame of the assembly . The pivot arm is coupled to a single fulcrum through a common shaft . The belt which actually comprises several belts operating in parallel is connected to an end of the fulcrum opposite the common shaft and a series of ratchets which are coupled to the ends of the belts at the end of the fulcrum are used to tighten the belts. The ratchets are standard off the shelf components and will not be amplified further herein. The belts are guided around a series of pulleys and A in order to raise each individual bollard . The actuator operates the fulcrum with the assistance of a group of springs attached between the frame and a pivot arm coupled to the common central shaft . The pivot arm in one embodiment is actually an extension of the pivot arm . That is they comprise opposite ends of a single member pivoting about the central shaft .

The springs may comprise any group of springs necessary to assist the lifting capability of the electromechanical actuator . The fulcrum design takes into consideration the need for the electromechanical actuator to operate as a single drive for the three individual bollards and and with the assistance of the spring system . The spring system is designed to assist from the down position to the full up position of the bollards. The actuator and the spring system are connected to the structure using pins and devises and respectively thereby allowing for free movement of motion required to deploy the bollards. In one embodiment the actuator has a 12 stroke or extension but is capable of moving the bollards to full deployment based on the length of the pivot arm .

The actuator is operated from a source of 208 single phase alternating current AC when activated by a signal to the AC source. Alternatively there is a back up battery BB if the source of AC should fail. One terminal of the battery BB is coupled to the actuator and the other terminal is connected to the frame . Circuitry for operation of the actuator is conventional in nature and will not be amplified further herein.

The bollard assembly is different from others on the market in that square tubing is employed which offers a much more robust product with higher structural capabilities requiring less material. The use of this product allows for more safety signage such as reflectors A A and A as well as less demand on the steel industry thereby adding a savings not only to the GREEN concept but to cost savings for the end user as well. The bollard works over a double channel guide post that will allow the bollard to slide up and down providing support and guidance for deployment. The Delrin product acts as a slide attached to the guide post to allow for smooth and controlled deployment of the bollards. This offers a stable position of the bollard while being deployed without the requirement of maintenance for metal products that would normally abrade and wear due to friction.

In accordance with one embodiment two pieces of 3 3 angle iron form a collar that are fastened to two sides of the bottom of the bollards with four 4 bolts not shown in this FIG. but illustrated in greater detail in . The belt runs around the pulley then up through the tower to another pulley A at the top of the tower and back down to a loop on one end of the belt which attaches to a 1 pin . The pin extends through the middle of the bollards and at the bottom thereof. Each bollard is individually connected to the fulcrum by the use of a loop in the belt attached to the 1 pin then through a pulley configuration A to the ratchet used for final adjustment for the tension of the belt . This arrangement is illustrated in and amplified further hereinafter.

The collar acts as a stop for the bollard post on impact with a vehicle and for security of maintaining the bollard in position at all times. The bollard rests on the collar which acts as a leveling stop for the final up position of the bollards . Upon impact of the barrier system if a bollard is damaged it can simply be unbolted whereupon maintenance personnel can remove the bollard pin and then remove the bollard itself for replacement. The lifting belt can then be reconnected to the 1 pin thereby allowing the product to be quickly put back into operation after a crash. The collar along with the bolts and the 1 pin on each side of the bollard prevents the bollard post from being removed by vandals as well as prevents the bollard from being pulled apart from the barrier system upon impact by an errant vehicle.

The bollard assembly of the present invention employs connection joints encased in an engineered thermoplastic product similar to Delrin which is available from DuPont Corporation. Use of this product for the connection joints eliminates the need for lubrication of the moving parts which would normally wear and require lubrication. This addition helps improve the GREEN concept thereby eliminating yet another possibility for an environmental issue.

In accordance with one embodiment a belt drive was used to allow for a no maintenance flexible quiet and long lasting system. Cables chains and other products were considered but the belts turned out to be the most practical for this application. In accordance with one embodiment the belts are made of Dyneema which is an ultra high molecular weight polyethylene. The belts are thick and 1 wide and have a tensile strength of approximately 7 000 pounds. The lifting requirement is calculated to be 350 pounds thereby allowing for a huge safety margin. The 4 inch pulleys A for the belt application are a manufactured product that is made for up to 1 wide belt with a brass bushing and steel with powder coat paint.

As stated hereinabove the present invention is built in two components the bollard assembly and a vault buried in the roadway . With reference to a cut away view illustrates the end of the bollard assembly inside the vault with bollard in a partially raised position. The bollard assembly is made to lock into the vault by means of pins secured into 6 12 1 double steel extension clamps anchored in the concrete and attached to the walls of the vault . The clamps are also welded to a No. 5 re bar cage that extends nine inches from the sidewalls and six inches from the bottom of the vault . In accordance with one embodiment the vault is sized to be 10 3 54 and is constructed of plate steel on the sides with a 1 plate steel on the bottom. The vault is reinforced with 3 3 angle iron which acts as an added keyway to lock the vault into the concrete. The re bar cage is separated on 12 centers and encases the vault on both sides and extends 6 on each end and extending to within 6 from the compacted soil on the bottom. The re bar cage will serve to tie the 18 54 concrete foundation on both sides and the 12 54 concrete foundation to the extension arms that are pinned to the bollard assembly thereby anchoring the entire vault and bollard assembly together to absorb and hold the impact of a crash of 1 250 000 pounds of Kinetic energy resulting from the 50 mph crash.

Again with reference to the shoulder is made of 1 12 36 steel that runs astride the entire bollard assembly and to the walls on either side of the vault . The shoulder includes 1 openings in each end for receipt of the pin that secures the bollard assembly into the vault at the clamps . With reference now to a top view of an end of the bollard assembly secured within the vault is shown. Cross brace members are welded between the shoulders in order to completely surround each of the bollards and in particular bollard in . Corner braces are welded in each of four corners formed by the intersection of the shoulders and the cross brace members . This adds rigidity to the surrounds for the bollards and .

Referring now to an isometric view of a detail of the belt clasped to the pin via a loop which pin is secured to the bottom of the bollard . The collar is shown attached to either side of the bollard at the bottom thereof by means of bolts and nuts . As stated hereinabove the collars act both as a stop for the bollard s upward travel but also prevents removal of the bollard by vandals or the like. It may also be appreciated that removal of the collars can be accomplished by removal of the nuts and the bolts . The pin may be slipped through the loop in the belt and through the vias on either side of the bottom of the bollard .

Referring now to an isometric view of a detail of the top of a bollard post A B showing the pulley for the belt . The Delrin strips are shown spread about the sides of the bollard post A B which form a smooth surface for the bollard post to slide up and down upon. It is pointed out that the bollard shown in slides over the bollard post . A pair of steel plates and is welded between the tops of the bollard posts A and B for support thereof and for supporting the pulley A by means of a pin .

The present invention employs a two part system with the vault and the bollard assembly as an insert which will dramatically ease the production and maintenance of the system once installed. The system incorporates a mechanism to operate multiple bollard posts simultaneously with one motor thereby dramatically lowering the cost of the system and maintenance thereof once installed. The design of the system allows one to remove the bollard assembly from the vault which is secured in a permanent foundation and still have the ability to reattach the bollard assembly or a replacement assembly. All of this includes the ability to stop a 15 000 pound truck traveling at 50 mph creating 1 250 000 pounds of kinetic energy. Upon impact a maintenance crew will have the ability to simply remove and replace only the damaged bollard if required while leaving the vault and bollard assembly in a condition that would allow for continued use after minor repairs are made if necessary.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described herein it will be obvious that such embodiments are provided by way of example only. Numerous variations changes and substitutions may be made without departing from the invention herein. Accordingly it is intended that the invention be limited only by the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

