---

title: System, method, and computer program for determining a level of importance of an entity
abstract: A system, method, and computer program product are provided for determining a level of importance of an entity. In use, an identifier of an entity is identified. Additionally, at least one source publishing entity information is searched for the identifier to determine at least one source publishing information associated with the entity. Further, the information associated with the entity is identified from the at least one source publishing the information associated with the entity. Still yet, the information is scored utilizing at least one predefined algorithm to generate at least one score, each score generated for a different one of the at least one predefined algorithm. Moreover, a value indicative of a level of importance of the entity is calculated, utilizing the at least one score.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08392431&OS=08392431&RS=08392431
owner: Amdocs Software Systems Limited
number: 08392431
owner_city: Dublin
owner_country: IE
publication_date: 20100407
---
The present invention relates to profiles and more particularly to identifying descriptive data associated with entities.

Profiles have become increasingly utilized to identify characteristics of entities for various purposes. For example the profiles have oftentimes been utilized for determining marketing information offers etc. that are targeted to the entities e.g. based on the characteristics of the entity . Unfortunately the entity characteristics conventionally identified for inclusion in these profiles have been limited. Just by way of example the entity characteristics in a profile oftentimes include a numerous amount of information simply gathered for an entity from various sources without necessarily including any particular meaning to the information.

A system method and computer program product are provided for determining a level of importance of an entity. In use an identifier of an entity is identified. Additionally at least one source publishing entity information is searched for the identifier to determine at least one source publishing information associated with the entity. Further the information associated with the entity is identified from the at least one source publishing the information associated with the entity. Still yet the information is scored utilizing at least one predefined algorithm to generate at least one score each score generated for a different one of the at least one predefined algorithm. Moreover a value indicative of a level of importance of the entity is calculated utilizing the at least one score.

Coupled to the network is a plurality of devices. For example a server computer and an end user computer may be coupled to the network for communication purposes. Such end user computer may include a desktop computer lap top computer and or any other type of logic. Still yet various other devices may be coupled to the network including a personal digital assistant PDA device a mobile phone device a television etc.

As shown a system is provided including at least one central processor which is connected to a communication bus . The system also includes main memory e.g. random access memory RAM etc. . The system also includes a graphics processor and a display .

The system may also include a secondary storage . The secondary storage includes for example a hard disk drive and or a removable storage drive representing a floppy disk drive a magnetic tape drive a compact disk drive etc. The removable storage drive reads from and or writes to a removable storage unit in a well known manner.

Computer programs or computer control logic algorithms may be stored in the main memory the secondary storage and or any other memory for that matter. Such computer programs when executed enable the system to perform various functions to be set forth below for example . Memory storage and or any other storage are possible examples of tangible computer readable media.

As shown in operation an identifier of an entity is identified. With respect to the present description the entity may include any person organization company etc. for which information may be published. For example the entity may include a person for which information associated with the person is presented on a website.

To this end the identifier of the entity may include any identifier that identifies a characteristic of the entity. In one embodiment the identifier of the entity may include a name e.g. first and last name of the entity. In another embodiment the identifier of the entity may include an email address of the entity. Of course while only a single identifier is described it should be noted that any number of identifiers of the entity may be identified as utilized in the manner described below.

Further the identifier of the entity may be identified from a profile of the entity. Optionally various characteristics of the entity may be stored in the profile of the entity in association with the identifier of the entity. Of course however the identifier of the entity may be identified from any data e.g. list etc. including the identifier of the entity.

Additionally as shown in operation at least one source publishing entity information is searched for the identifier to determine at least one source publishing information associated with the entity. It should be noted that the source publishing entity information may include any data source by which information associated with at least one entity is either directly published e.g. presented displayed etc. or indirectly published e.g. as capable of being determined from the directly published information . In various embodiments the source publishing entity information may include a website providing a social networking service e.g. Twitter Facebook LinkedIn or any other open application on the Internet that allows entities to communicate and exchange any piece of information according to the network function where social connections are either created explicitly by the users or automatically by the networks using matching logics or by using the type of use such as interest or geographical location or closed private application where approval from the entity to use the information associated with the entity that is retrieved from the publishing entity an informational website providing documentation on various subject matter e.g. Wikipedia etc. an information website providing documentation on a particular subject matter e.g. imdb.com NBA.com NLB.com etc. websites for indexing and or referencing information associated with entities e.g. people.forbes.com a search engine website providing search results in response to searches for data private reference sources etc.

In addition the source s publishing entity information that are searched may include a predetermined set of sources. In one embodiment at least one source publishing entity information may be predetermined e.g. from a list of available sources publishing entity information for a particular manner in which the output of the method i.e. a type of use of a calculated level of importance of the entity as described in operation is to be utilized. For example a first set of sources may be predetermined for use in calculating a level of importance of the entity with respect to mobile devices whereas a different second set of sources may be predetermined for use in calculating a level of importance of the entity with respect to the entity s involvement in a sport.

In one embodiment the source publishing entity information may be searched for the identifier by querying such source for the identifier. Optionally a search tool provided by the source publishing entity information may be utilized to search for the identifier of the entity. As another option a search engine may be utilized to perform the search for searching all of the aforementioned sources publishing entity information via a single search. Of course however the source publishing entity information may be searched in any desired manner that determines whether such source publishes information in association with the identifier of the entity.

In another embodiment the source publishing information associated with the entity may be determined from a result of the search e.g. a result of the aforementioned query . For example the result of the search may indicate whether a particular source publishing entity information for which the search was performed has published the identifier of the entity utilized to perform the search or information associated with such identifier . As another example the result of the search may indicate which sources publishing information for which the search was performed have published the identifier of the entity utilized to perform the search or information associated with such identifier . If it is determined that the source publishing entity information for which the search was performed has published the identifier of the entity utilized to perform the search or information associated with the identifier such source may be automatically determined to be a source publishing information associated with the entity.

Further the information associated with the entity is identified from the at least one source publishing the information associated with the entity as shown in operation . For example information associated with the entity may be identified from each source determined to be publishing the information associated with the entity. Thus information associated with the entity may optionally be identified from a plurality of sources publishing information associated with the entity.

Moreover it should be noted that the information associated with the entity may be identified from the source publishing the information associated with the entity in any desired manner. In one embodiment the information associated with the entity may be identified based on a relevancy of the information to a publication of the identifier of the entity by the source publishing the information associated with the entity e.g. a location of the information with respect to the published identifier etc. . Just by way of example the information may be identified from a webpage that is personalized for the particular identifier of the entity e.g. a social networking webpage personalized for the entity . In other embodiments the information may be identified by directly retrieving the information from the source publishing the information or by determining the information from other information published by the source e.g. such as determining a rate of information published by the source as described below etc. 

Furthermore the information associated with the entity that is identified may optionally include any information associated with the entity that is published by the source. As another option the information associated with the entity that is identified may include predetermined types of information associated with the entity that is published by the source. The predetermined types may be configured by the administrator that performed the aforementioned search for example.

In various embodiments the information may be associated with celebrity social media presence traditional media influence political influence key events conferences with visiting celebrities and media executive position major supplier or client to key clients social and traditional media presence or influence different channels suppliers and partners telecom administrators and decision makers executive family and calling circle key events conferences with visiting dignitaries executives politicos etc.

For example in one embodiment the information may include a number of followers of the entity e.g. a number of ties or connections the entity has with other entities for example as established via a social network service provided by the source publishing information associated with the entity . The followers may be for the entity for example on Facebook the entity s content publications for example on Twitter or the entity s interests for example on Delicious . In another embodiment the information may include a rate between a number of other entities the entity is following and a number of other entities following the entity.

In yet another embodiment the information may include a level of importance of the friends of the entity described above e.g. where such level of importance for each of the friends of the entity is calculated in the manner described with respect to the present method of for the entity . In still yet another embodiment the information may include a group affiliations held by the entity. In a further embodiment the information may include an average time other entities respond to a publication by the entity.

In another embodiment the information may include a number of tags associated with the entity such as video tags picture tags blog entry tags micro blog mentions e.g. a number on Twitter and or any other social tags created from a social tagging tool.

In an additional embodiment the information may include a rate of activity of the entity such as a rate of a level of activity of the entity e.g. a latest activity time a number of status updates a number of new bookmarks a number of uploaded pictures a number of questions answered etc. . It should be noted that each different type of activity for which the rate is determined may be measured over different predetermined periods of time.

In another embodiment the information may include a number of comments on the activities of the entity e.g. comments on a status update published by the entity in Twitter a picture uploaded to Flickr etc. . In still yet another embodiment the information may include interests of the entity. Such interests may be identified based on a group to which the entity belongs another entity being followed by the entity another entity under which the entity is employed other entities to which the entity has established a connection e.g. via a social network and the third party entities that are followed by such other entities etc.

In a further embodiment the information may include a response by the entity to a social networking campaign offers etc. For example the information may include a number of transactions performed by the entity following an advertisement offer or campaign over a social network without necessarily any limitation on the channel via which the transaction was performed e.g. such as where the entity receives an offer over Twitter but completes the transaction associated with the offer over a short message service SMS . As another example the information may include a number of messages received from the entity to an enterprise presence on the social network. In yet another example the information may include a rate between received and sent messages with respect to an enterprise and the entity. In another embodiment the information may include a response by the entity to another entity s presence in a social networking environment.

In yet another embodiment the information may include purchasing information associated with the entity. For example the information may include a number of purchases made by the entity through a company initiating the identification of the information e.g. via a social network or other channels associated with the company . As another example the information may include a number of notifications recommendations made by the entity to the entity s contacts through company s channel. As yet another example the information may include a number of reverse recommendations feedback made by the entity to his contacts through company s channel. In an additional embodiment the information may include family information. For example the information may indicate a family role of the entity e.g. wife husband brother etc. family roles of members of the entity s family employers of the members of the entity s family etc.

In another embodiment the information may include an indication of an appearance e.g. reference etc. of the entity in an informational e.g. subject matter website such as whether the entity has a webpage in a particular website e.g. tv.com NBA.com etc. whether such webpage is crossed referenced by other information websites e.g. Wikipedia imdb.com etc. . In yet another optional embodiment the information may include an indication of whether the entity is a celebrity e.g. media celebrity . Such an indication may be identified based on whether content of a webpage about the entity indicates the entity is a celebrity e.g. whether a Wikipedia page describing the entity identifies the entity has a host of a television show or a winner of a reality television show . As another option the indication may be based on a determination of whether the entity is important in at least one particular aspect of the entity s life. For example the indication may be determined based on the entity s place of work e.g. if the entity if working for NBC a rank or role of the entity in the entity s place of work e.g. if the entity is a producer etc. As other options the indication may be based on whether the entity is referenced in a celebrity indexing website e.g. http whocelebstweet.com and or whether the entity is directly related to another entity with high media exposure e.g. whether the entity is a host of a successful television show where the television show has an appearance in the social network but the host does not necessarily have such an appearance .

In still yet another embodiment the information may include business information associated with the entity. Such business information may be identified from a published profile associated with the entity. For example the business information may include a place of employment of the entity a rank or role of the entity s employment a business related group to which the entity belongs etc.

In a further embodiment the information may include a number of references made to the entity such as in a blog entry microblog entry etc. In another embodiment the information may include a published profile of the entity. In yet another embodiment the information may include a number of positive feedbacks given to activity of the entity e.g. in Blogger . In an additional embodiment the information may include a number of results returned for a search of the entity performed utilizing a search engine e.g. Google Bing etc. .

Still yet the information is scored utilizing at least one predefined algorithm to generate at least one score where each score is generated for a different one of the at least one predefined algorithm. Note operation . With respect to the present description the predefined algorithm may include any test conditional statement method etc. utilized for scoring the information to generate a score. Further each predefined algorithm may be associated with a different type e.g. piece source parameter etc. of information identified in operation such that each predefined algorithm may be utilized to score to the information associated therewith.

In addition the predefined algorithm may be predefined for scoring the information based on the particular manner in which the output of the method i.e. a type of use of a calculated level of importance of the entity as described in operation is to be utilized e.g. as described above . Thus different algorithms may be predefined for scoring information based on the particular manner in which the output of the method is to be utilized. In one embodiment a default set of predefined algorithms e.g. all available predefined algorithms may be utilized when a general e.g. all purpose level of importance of the entity is to be calculated. In another embodiment a subset e.g. customized set of all available predefined algorithms may be utilized when a level of importance of the entity is to be calculated with respect to a specific subject matter e.g. sports games etc. 

It should be noted that the score generated by the predefined algorithm may include a number or any other value capable of being utilized to calculate a value indicative of a level of importance of the entity as described below with respect to operation . As an option each score may indicate a level of importance of the entity e.g. influence over other entities etc. with respect to the information based on which the score is generated. As another option where the information is a number e.g. a number of followers of the entity a number of tags associated with the entity etc. the score may be equal to the number. As another option a predefined algorithm may generate a score based on a score generated from another predefined algorithm e.g. by taking as input the score generated from the other predefined algorithm .

In one embodiment the score generated based on the number of followers of the entity may increase as a function of the number of followers. For example the score may increase as the number of followers increases e.g. thus indicating that the level of influence that the entity has over other entities increases as the number of followers of such entity increases .

In another embodiment the score generated based on the level of importance of the friends of the entity may increase as a function of the level of importance of the friends of the entity. For example the score may increase as the level of importance of the friends of the entity increases. Optionally the score may even further increase if the friends are followers of the entity.

In yet another embodiment the score generated based on group affiliations held by the entity may increase as a function of the group affiliations held by the entity corresponding to a campaign to be sent to the entity based on the level of importance of the entity described below in operation . For example the score may be calculated based on whether the entity belongs to a group relevant to the campaign e.g. the score of the entity may increase for a sport campaign if the entity belongs to at least one group associated with a sports team .

In a further embodiment the score generated based on the average time other entities respond to a publication by the entity may increase as a function of the average time other entities respond to a publication by the entity. For example as the average time other entities respond to a publication by the entity increases the score may increase. In still yet another embodiment the score generated based on the number of tags associated with the entity may increase as a function of the number of tags associated with the entity. For example the score may increase as the number of tags in which the entity appears increases. The score may optionally also be based on whether such tags were generated by the entity or by other entities for example such that tags generated by the entity may result in less of an increase of the score than tags generated by other entities.

In an additional embodiment the score generated based on interests of the entity may increase as a function of a relevance of the interests of the entity to area e.g. category etc. associated with an entity that initiated the identification of the information for ultimately determining the level of importance of the entity as described in operation . Just by way of example if the entity that initiated the identification of the information is a communications service provider the score may be increased as a function of the entity belonging to a group associated with mobile devices or mobile applications.

In yet another embodiment the score generated based on purchasing information associated with the entity may indicate a purchasing power of the entity. In still yet another embodiment the score generated based on family information associated with the entity may be a function of the family information. Optionally the role of the entity in the entity s family may be associated with a predetermined level of influence such that the score may be increased as a function of the level of influence associated with the role of the entity in the entity s family. For example the score may increase for an entity who is a wife of a chief executive officer CEO of a particular company where information on such company is desired to be sent to the entity an entity that initiated the identification of the information for ultimately determining the level of importance of the entity as described in operation .

In still yet another embodiment the score generated based on an indication of whether the entity is a celebrity or other important entity may be a function of the place of work of the entity and or the rank or role of the entity in the entity s place of work. For example the score may be increased in response to determination that the entity is employed by a television broadcasting station e.g. NBC and is a producer at such television broadcasting station. In another embodiment the score generated based on business information associated with the entity the score may be increased as a function of a place of employment of the entity a rank or role of the entity at the entity s place of employment and or a business related group to which the entity belongs. Just by way of example the score may be increased for an entity that is employed by a fortune company that is a vice president or CEO or other executive that is an ivy league school alumni etc.

As an option each predefined algorithm may be assigned a weight. For example the weight may be assigned by an entity that initiated the identification of the information in operation for determining a level of importance of the entity. In this way predefined algorithms each associated with a different type of information may be weighted in a customized manner according to the importance of the information to be scored by such predefined algorithms in determining the level of importance of the entity. As another option each predefined algorithm may be assigned a weight per segment of information for which a score is generated utilizing the predefined algorithm. For example the segments may include geographic locations line of business interests age etc. The score generated for a predefined algorithm may therefore optionally be weighted based on the weight assigned to the predefined algorithm for generating a weighted score.

As yet another option the predefined algorithm may be assigned a priority. In this way when a plurality of predefined algorithms are to be utilized for scoring the information associated with the entity the scores may be generated based on the priority of the predefined algorithms. Further each predefined algorithm may be associated with a predetermined threshold such that if the score generated utilizing one of the predefined algorithms does not meet the threshold the remaining predefined algorithms of lower priority may be prevented from being utilized to score the information and the method terminated . Such thresholds may be utilized identify entities determined to not meet a requisite level of importance as determined by a predetermined algorithm with an associated threshold and to filter out such entities from having a level of importance calculated based on scores generated from the predefined algorithms.

Table 1 illustrates numerous examples of the sources that may be searched for the identifier of the entity e.g. as described in operation the information associated with the entity that may be identified from such sources that are determined to publish information associated with the entity e.g. as described in operation and the thresholds based on which such information may be scored e.g. as described in operation . Of course it should be noted that the information presented in Table 1 is set forth for illustrative purposes only and thus should not be construed as limiting in any manner.

Moreover as shown in operation a value indicative of a level of importance of the entity is calculated utilizing the at least one score. With respect to the present description the level of importance may include any level on a predetermined scale that indicates the importance e.g. influence etc. of the entity e.g. with respect to another entity that initiated the method with respect to other entities influenced by the entity . For example the level of importance may indicate the importance of the entity to the other entity s business objectives marketing campaigns etc.

Thus the value indicative of the level of importance of the entity may optionally be a value on the aforementioned predetermined scale. In addition the value may include a single indicator of the level of importance of the entity such that the single indicator and not necessarily the specific information identified in operation may be utilized by the other entity that initiated the method for any desired purpose. In one embodiment at least some of the scores or optionally weighted scores generated from the predefined algorithms may be summed to form the value. For example the scores not necessarily utilized for generating another one of the scores as described above may be summed to calculate the value. In this way the scores may be utilized to calculate the value indirectly by being utilized to generate another one of the scores or directly by being utilized in a calculation with other scores to generate the value indicative of the level of importance of the entity.

In another embodiment the scores or optionally weighted scores generated from the predefined algorithms may be summed or otherwise combined to form a result from which the value may be derived. For example where the value is selected from low importance medium importance high importance or very high importance each such selection may be associated with a different range of numbers or other values . Thus in such example the range of numbers in which the result of the calculation exists may be identified and the value associated therewith determined to be indicative of the level of importance of the entity.

Furthermore because the value indicative of the level of importance is calculated utilizing the at least one score the level of importance determined for the entity may be based on the predefined algorithms utilized to generate such score s . For example as noted above the predefined algorithms may include a default set of algorithms such that the level of importance may be generic for the entity e.g. calculated without respect to a particular subject matter whereas in another embodiment the predefined algorithms may include a subset e.g. customized set of all available predefined algorithms that are associated with a particular subject matter such that the level of importance may be specific to such subject matter. Thus different levels of importance may be calculated for the entity for different subject matters as an option.

As noted above the level of importance may indicate the importance of the entity to the another entity s business objectives marketing campaigns etc. To this end the level of importance may be utilized by the entity initiating the method hereinafter initiating entity which may be a company service provider etc. to determine offers advertisements campaigns etc. to be sent to the entity to update a profile of the entity etc. For example entities determined to be of high importance e.g. real media celebrities high ranking executives social influencers may be treated by the initiating entity differently than entities determined to be of low importance. 

As another example personalization for the entity may be provided in a manner that is based on the level of importance of the entity with respect to a specific subject matter as indicated by the calculated value. In one exemplary embodiment an entity that calls into a call center may be provided with a particular proposal e.g. offer etc. based on the level of importance generated for the entity with respect to the proposal.

As yet another example a social average revenue per user ARPU may be determined based on the entity s level of influence and the ARPU of the entity s followers for influencing the entity a function of the entity s social ARPU. As still yet another example marketing access methods may be optimized according to the level of importance of the entity as related to the social role of the entity . Further a unified social role and rate may be provided across the various types of media based on the level of importance of the entity. To this end the method may be utilized by customer relationship management CRM responsible information management RIM self service campaign management etc.

Table 2 illustrates one example of a calculation of a value indicative of a level of importance of an entity based on scores generated utilizing a plurality of predefined algorithms applied to information associated with the entity that is identified from Twitter . It should be noted that the exemplary calculation shown in Table 2 is set forth for illustrative purposes only and thus should not be construed as limiting in any manner.

More illustrative information will now be set forth regarding various optional architectures and uses in which the foregoing method may or may not be implemented per the desires of the user. It should be strongly noted that the following information is set forth for illustrative purposes and should not be construed as limiting in any manner. Any of the following features may be optionally incorporated with or without the exclusion of other features described.

As shown a gateway device is in communication with a plurality of information sources A N. The communication may be provided via a network such as the Internet. Further with respect to the present embodiment the information sources A N may each include a different source located as a device on the network publishing entity information and the gateway device may include a device e.g. computer etc. of a service allowing third party entities such as service providers content providers etc. to determine a level of importance of an entity as described below.

Initially a query engine of the gateway device identifies an identifier e.g. name or other profile information of an entity e.g. person etc. . The identifier of the entity may be identified based on input from a user associated with the third party entity e.g. an administrator etc. . For example the user may submit the identifier of the entity to the query engine e.g. via an application programming interface API web service etc. . To this end the gateway device may operate as described below on demand e.g. upon initiation by the user . Of course as another option the gateway device may operate periodically to perform the functionality described below.

Upon receipt of the identifier of the entity the query engine searches the information sources A N for the identifier of the entity to determine which of the information sources A N publish information associated with the entity. The information associated with the entity that is published by the determined information sources A N is then identified from such determined information sources A N. For example the information may include predetermined types of information each associated with at least one of a plurality of predefined scoring algorithms .

As an option each of the predefined scoring algorithms may be associated with a weight such that only information associated with predefined scoring algorithms with a weight of more than zero may be identified. As another option each of the predefined scoring algorithms may be associated with a priority such that the information may be identified in the order of the priority of the associated predefined scoring algorithms .

In this way in response to identification of the information the predefined scoring algorithms may be applied to the information to generate at least one score where each score is generated for a different one of the predefined scoring algorithms . For example each predefined scoring algorithm may be applied to the type of information with which it is associated for generating a score. The score may then be weighted based on the weight associated with the predefined scoring algorithm from which the score was generated. As an option where the predefined scoring algorithms are prioritized such predefined scoring algorithms may also be assigned a threshold. Thus if a score or weighted score generated for one of the predefined scoring algorithms does not meet the threshold the gateway device may terminate operation with respect to the entity for which the identifier thereof was entered and the predefined scoring algorithms with a lower priority than the aforementioned one of the predefined scoring algorithms may be prevented from being utilized to identifying or otherwise scoring the information associated therewith.

Furthermore an importance level algorithm is applied to the scores generated by the predefined scoring algorithms for calculating a value indicative of level of importance of the entity. For example the scores may be summed or otherwise utilized in a calculation either directly or indirectly to determine the value indicative of level of importance of the entity. In this way a single indicator of a level of importance of the entity may be generated using the importance level algorithm .

As an option a validation module may validate the information identified using the query engine . The validation module may validate whether the information identified using the query engine is in fact associated with the entity. For example the identifier of the entity utilized to search for the sources publishing information associated with the entity may be associated with other entities for which the sources publish information e.g. where the identifier is a name the sources may publish information associated with multiple entities with the same name . It should be noted that the validation may be performed in any desired manner. Just by way of example the validation may use additional information in a profile of the entity to determine whether the information identified using the query engine is in fact associated with the entity e.g. by matching information in the profile with information included in the information . Still yet a certainty algorithm may generate a value indicative of a level of certainty of the value indicative of level of importance of the entity. For example the level of certainty may be an indicator of the amount of certainty that the level of importance of the entity is an accurate reflection of the importance of the entity. The value indicative of the level of certainty may be selected from one of a plurality of available values indicative of a level of certainty e.g. negative or positive or as a gauge of the level of certainty e.g. see .

In addition the certainty algorithm may optionally utilize output from the validation module to generate the value indicative of the level of certainty. For example if the information identified by the query engine is determined by the validation module to be associated with multiple entities using the same identifier the value indicative of the level of certainty may indicate that the level of certainty is low e.g. less than 100 negative etc. . As another example if the information identified by the query engine is determined by the validation module to be associated with a single entity the value indicative of the level of certainty may indicate that the level of certainty is high e.g. 100 positive etc .

As another option classifications for the entity may be derived from the information identified by the query engine or the content from which such information was identified e.g. a web page a description of a Facebook group harvested user profile user s Twitter statuses history etc. for identifying specific characteristics of the entity. In one embodiment an engine of the gateway device performing the classifications may be trainable to determine the classifications to be identified. In various examples the classifications may include the line of business whether or not the entity is a celebrity a type of celebrity subject matter relevant tags etc. that are derived for the entity.

Moreover the value indicative of the level of importance of the entity the value indicative of the level of certainty of the value indicative of level of importance and or the classifications may be stored by the gateway device in data structure storing entity profiles. For example the value indicative of the level of importance of the entity the value indicative of the level of certainty of the value indicative of level of importance and or the classifications may be stored in a profile of the entity e.g. in association with the identifier utilized by the query engine to identify the information associated with the entity .

As shown in operation an entity identifier for an entity is identified. For example the entity identifier may include a name of the entity. As another example the entity identifier may be identified from a profile of the entity.

Additionally a plurality of sources are searched for the entity identifier as shown in operation . With respect to the present embodiment the sources may include any sources publishing entity information. Optionally the sources may be searched via a search engine capable of searching the sources via a single search query.

Further it is determined whether any sources are returned from the search. Note decision . In the present embodiment sources publishing information associated with the entity identifier such as the entity identifier itself may be returned from the search. If it is determined that no sources are returned from the search the method terminates.

If however it is determined that at least one source is returned from the search information associated with the entity is identified from the source s returned from the search. Note operation . Moreover the information is scored utilizing a plurality of predefined algorithms to generate a score for each of the predefined algorithms as shown in operation . For example each of the predefined algorithms may be associated with a portion of the information e.g. as determined based on a type of the information such that the predefined algorithms may be applied to the portion of the information associated therewith to generate a score.

Still yet the scores are weighted based on a weight assigned to each of the predefined algorithms as shown in operation . Thus a score generated from a particular predefined algorithm may be weighted according to the weight assigned to such particular predefined algorithm. The weights may optionally be assigned by a third party entity initiating the method for determining a level of importance of the entity for which the entity identifier was searched operation .

A first value indicative of a level of importance of the entity is then calculated utilizing the weighted scores. Note operation . For example the weighted scores may be summed or processed in any other manner utilizing a predetermined algorithm capable of generating the first value indicative of the level of importance of the entity. A second value indicative of a level of certainty for the first value is further calculated as shown in operation . As an option the second value may be calculated using a validation that results of the search for the entity identifier are associated with the entity e.g. a validation of the information associated with the entity identified in operation . For example the second value may be a function of the validation.

Furthermore as shown in operation the first value and the second value are stored in association with the entity identifier. Just by way of example the first value and the second value may be stored in a profile of the entity that stores the entity identifier e.g. from which the entity identifier was identified in operation . In this way the first value indicative of the level of importance of the entity and the second value indicative of the level of certainty for the first value may be accessible to the third party entity initiating the method or any other entity capable of using such values e.g. for determining advertisements offers etc. targeted at the entity .

As shown in operation a person s name is searched. It is then determined whether the person s name is found on LinkedIn or Forbes.com as shown in decision . For example the person s name may be searched using a web search tool of each of LinkedIn or Forbes.com. If it is determined that the person s name is not found on either of LinkedIn or Forbes.com the person is determined to not be of importance. Note operation .

If however it is determined that the person s name is found on either of LinkedIn or Forbes.com it is determined whether the person s business role is a management level role. Note decision . For example information from LinkedIn or Forbes.com in whichever the person s name was found may be identified which indicates the person s business role. If it is determined that the person s business role is not a management level role the person is determined to not be of importance. Note operation .

If it is determined that the person s business role is a management level role it is further determined whether the company for which the person holds the management level role is a global company or bigger than 10 000 people. Note decision . Again such determination may be made based on information identified from LinkedIn or Forbes.com. If it is determined that the company for which the person holds the management level role is a global company or bigger than 10 000 people the person is determined to be of importance as shown in operation .

If it is determined that the company for which the person holds the management level role is not either a global company or bigger than 10 000 people it is determined whether such company is relevant to a line of business of an entity initiating the method . The relevancy may be determined using an exception list listing various lines of business that are relevant to the line of business of the entity. If it is determined that the company is relevant to a line of business of the entity the person is determined to be of importance as shown in operation . If however it is determined that the company is not relevant to a line of business of the entity the person is determined to not be of importance. Note operation .

It should be noted with respect to the present method that decisions and may be prioritized predefined algorithms e.g. such that decision has a highest priority decision has a next highest priority etc. utilized for scoring information associated with the person that is identified in LinkedIn or Forbes.com. In addition the prioritized predefined algorithms for decisions and may also include thresholds such that if the threshold is not met the person is automatically determined to not be of importance and the method is terminated. For example the thresholds may each require that the condition of the associated predefined algorithm be evaluated to true. It should also be noted that the value indicative of the level of importance of the person i.e. not important or important in the present embodiment are determined based on a score i.e. evaluated to true or false of at least some of the decisions and such a single value indicative of the level of importance of the person is determined from the score of at least one predefined algorithm.

As shown in operation a person s name is searched. It is then determined whether the person s name is found on Twitter as shown in decision . For example the person s name may be searched using a web search tool of Twitter . If it is determined that the person s name is not found on Twitter the person is determined to not be of importance. Note operation .

If however it is determined that the person s name is found on Twitter it a number of followers of the person is identified as shown in operation . For example information from Twitter may be identified which indicates the number of followers of the person. If the number of followers is less than 1 000 the person is determined to not be of importance. Note operation .

If the number of followers is more than 100 000 the person is determined to be of importance. Note operation . If however the number of followers is between 1 000 and 100 000 additional operations are executed. In particular if the number of followers is between 100 and 1 000 a level of importance for followers of the person is identified. Note operation . Again information from Twitter may be identified which indicates the level of importance. It is then determined whether the level of importance meets a threshold e.g. top 10 as shown in decision such that if the level of importance does not meet the threshold the person is determined to not be of importance operation and if the level of importance meets the threshold the person is determined to be of importance operation .

If the number of followers is between 1 000 and 5 000 an area of interest of the person is classified as shown in operation . Specifically the subject matter about which the person is micro blogging is identified. Again information from Twitter or another website publishing information associated with the person may indicate the subject matter about which the person is micro blogging. It is then determined whether the subject matter is relevant to an entity that initiated the method as shown in decision . If it is determined that the subject matter is not relevant the person is determined to not be of importance operation and if it is determined that the subject matter is relevant the person is determined to be of importance operation .

Still yet if the number of followers is between 5 000 and 100 000 a response rate associated with the person is calculated. Note operation . In particular the response rate may include a number of tweets published by the person that are re twitted republished via Twitter by other persons. It is then determined whether the response rate meets a predetermined threshold as shown in operation . If it is determined that the response rate meets a predetermined threshold high the person is determined to be of importance operation . However if it is determined that the response rate does not meet a predetermined threshold low the person is determined to not be of importance operation .

It should be noted with respect to the present method that decisions etc. may be prioritized predefined algorithms e.g. such that decision has a highest priority decision has a next highest priority etc. utilized for scoring information associated with the person that is identified in Twitter . In addition the prioritized predefined algorithms for decisions and may also include thresholds such that if the threshold is not met the person is automatically determined to not be of importance and the method is terminated. It should also be noted that the value indicative of the level of importance of the person i.e. not important or important in the present embodiment are determined based on a score i.e. evaluated to true or false of at least some of the decisions e.g. etc. such that a single value indicative of the level of importance of the person is determined from the score of at least one predefined algorithm.

While various embodiments have been described above it should be understood that they have been presented by way of example only and not limitation. Thus the breadth and scope of a preferred embodiment should not be limited by any of the above described exemplary embodiments but should be defined only in accordance with the following claims and their equivalents.

