---

title: System and method of enabling additional functions or services of device by use of transparent gateway or proxy
abstract: A system, apparatus, or method for enabling an application developer to access the events, data and functionality of a device, such as a mobile phone, without being limited by the API provided by the device manufacturer. In some embodiments, the present invention utilizes a transparent gateway as a proxy that is inserted into the device stack to enable an application developer to access features and functions of the device beyond those exposed by the manufacturer provided API. For example, the transparent gateway may be inserted into the wireless stack of a mobile phone, in between the Bluetooth stack and the device's API. The transparent gateway may be installed in the mobile phone via an over the air provisioning or another suitable method.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09003429&OS=09003429&RS=09003429
owner: AliphCom
number: 09003429
owner_city: San Francisco
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100921
---
This application claims priority from and the benefit of provisional application No. 61 245 249 filed on Sep. 23 2009 the full disclosure of which is incorporated herein by reference for all purposes.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to systems apparatuses and methods for enabling the interoperability of devices and more specifically to a method of enabling the development of new services and features for a user by inserting a transparent gateway into the stack of a device. The transparent gateway acts as a proxy to provide an application programming interface API that enables the development of services features and applications that utilize the capabilities of the device where such capabilities may include data functions operations and processes that were not accessible to developers in the absence of the gateway. Embodiments of the present invention provide a means for other devices and applications to interact with the device containing the transparent gateway in ways that would not be possible in the absence of the gateway. This enables the development of services and applications that rely on access to the internal operations of the device containing the gateway but which would not be accessible in the absence of the gateway.

Application developers wishing to build an application that interfaces with an existing device through Bluetooth or another wireless data input output protocol supplied by a wireless device manufacturer are currently limited to the functionality of the API exposed by each device manufacturer. This means that a developer or other party desiring to provide a new application or service to users of a device such as a headset or mobile phone are limited by the internal data operations and device functionality made available to them by the manufacturer through the existing API.

However at present there is no standard API that is exposed to application developers to enable the development of services and functionality that interact with or utilize these wireless data protocols to exchange data between a device such as a mobile phone or wireless communications equipped media player and another device such as a headset.

The API exposed to developers and hence the access to the internal data and operations of a device may vary from device to device and even change between versions of the same device. This places limits on the types of services and features that can be provided by application developers and may also cause previously implemented services or features to be rendered obsolete when an API is changed or even slightly modified. Further the lack of a standard API places severe limits on and may eliminate the possibility of cross platform interoperability between certain types of devices. This limits the freedom of users to choose the combination of devices and accessories that they prefer to utilize to obtain the services and features that they desire.

Another problem created by the present use of a fixed API by a device manufacturer arises from the need by a manufacturer to change or replace an API after a device is released. At present the only way for a manufacture to do this is by a software and or firmware update or the release of a new version of the device. Even in this case the API s are still specific to the manufacturer. There is still no common API or set of services that are exposed to a developer to enable the development of value added services and functions for users of a device such as a wireless headset or cellular phone.

What is desired is a system apparatus or method for enabling application developers to provide added value services and functions for a manufacturer s device without being limited to the device features and functions exposed by the API provided by the manufacturer. Embodiments of the present invention address this and other disadvantages of the present approach to application development using a manufacturer exposed API both individually and collectively.

Embodiments of the present invention are directed to a system apparatus and method for enabling an application developer to access the features and functions of a device to provide value added services and functions without being limited by the API provided by the device manufacturer. In some embodiments the invention utilizes a transparent gateway which is inserted into the stack of a device s operating software and functions as a proxy to enable an application developer to access events data and functional elements of the device.

In some embodiments of the present invention a transparent gateway is implemented as a software or firmware application that is inserted between the internal wireless stack and the existing API of a device. The internal wireless stack functions to process data or instructions received from a wireless communications network. Thus the transparent gateway is positioned in the data flow between a network connection that receives data or instructions from an external source and an existing API for the device in which the gateway is inserted. This allows the gateway to have access to the incoming data or instructions prior to any filtering or limitations that may be imposed by the existing API. The transparent gateway executes a set of rules that determine which events such as specific data or instructions are to be passed to an extended API for use in implementing new services or functionality either by the device in which the gateway is inserted or by a combination of devices which may include the device in which the gateway is inserted. The rule base for the gateway may be updated revised corrected etc. by an over the air or wireline update process to enable new rules to be implemented and as a result to enable new or updated services and functionality to be made available to a user.

In one embodiment the present invention is directed to a device having a communication interface configured to receive an event from an external source a first application program interface API in communication with the communication interface a transparent gateway disposed between the communication interface and the first API a second API in communication with the transparent gateway and a rule base in communication with the transparent gateway the rule base comprising a set of rules. The transparent gateway configured to receive the event from the communication interface process the event to determine whether the event satisfies a rule in the set of rules of the rule base and if the event satisfies a rule in the set of rules apply the rule to the event.

In another embodiment the present invention is directed to a method of providing a service to a user of a device. The method comprises receiving an event from an element of the device responsible for implementing a wireless protocol processing the received event to determine if the event satisfies a rule in a rule base and if the received event satisfies a rule in the rule base providing the event to an existing API provided by the manufacturer of the device as well as an extensible API.

In yet another embodiment the present invention is directed to a method that comprises providing a transparent gateway in a device the transparent gateway provided between a network stack of the device and a first API of the device the network stack configured to receive an event from an external source providing a second API in communication with the transparent gateway and providing a rule base in communication with the transparent gateway the rule base comprising a set of rules. The transparent gateway being configured to receive the event from the network stack process the event to determine whether the event satisfies a rule in the set of rules of the rule base and if the event satisfies a rule in the set of rules apply the rule to the event.

Other objects and advantages of the present invention will be apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art upon review of the detailed description of the present invention and the included figures.

In some embodiments the present invention is directed to a system apparatus or method for enabling an application developer to access the events data and functionality of a device such as a mobile phone without being limited by the existing APIs provided by the device manufacturer. In some embodiments the present invention utilizes a transparent gateway as a proxy that is inserted into the device stack to enable an application developer to access features and functions of the device beyond those exposed by the manufacturer provided APIs. For example the transparent gateway may be inserted into the wireless stack of a mobile phone between the Bluetooth stack and the device s APIs. The transparent gateway may be installed in the mobile phone via an over the air provisioning a direct wireline connection or another suitable method. The rule base implemented by the gateway to determine which data or events to make available to an application may be updated revised or replaced by any suitable method including over the air provisioning or a direct connection to a computing device.

Note that the device in which the transparent gateway proxy is installed may be any suitable audio and or data capable device. Such base devices may include but are not limited to mobile phones music players headsets etc. The system apparatuses and methods enable developers to access the functions and capabilities of the base device where that device may communicate over a wireless network with a second device. The second device may be any suitable secondary device that is capable of communicating and or exchanging data over a wireless network with the base device in which the transparent gateway proxy is installed. The transparent gateway proxy may be used to enable the development of an application or functionality that provides the base device with the ability to interact with the secondary device in ways that were previously unavailable. Thus in some embodiments a headset capable of wireless communication e.g. a Bluetooth headset may function as the base device with a different device serving as the secondary device while in other embodiments a mobile phone may function as a base device with the headset functioning as a secondary device.

In the case of a mobile phone serving as the base device and a Bluetooth headset serving as the secondary device by inserting a transparent gateway proxy between the lowest layer of the wireless stack e.g. between the Bluetooth or other network communications stack and the device s existing APIs it is possible to control or circumvent the events reported to the existing device APIs. In addition a developer is enabled to create and access a set of extended common functions that can be used to manipulate or control or allow cross platform development for applications. The transparent gateway proxy can be configured to expose an extensible API set that is common across all platforms regardless of the functions exposed by the device manufacturer. Note that this is an exemplary embodiment and that placement of the transparent gateway proxy in other base devices would be performed in a manner dependent upon the structure and arrangement of the base device stack and the type of secondary device that is being used as part of the system.

The transparent proxy gateway can be inserted at the time of device manufacturing or at a later time using an over the air or direct connection based provisioning technique. An application that is to be installed in the device may also be provided to a device over the air or using a direct connection. The transparent gateway proxy may be used to expand or extend the APIs provided by a device manufacturer while providing a set of common extensible APIs to application developers that is independent of hardware platform constraints or limitations established by the manufacturer. Further the transparent gateway proxy may be used to change or expand the capabilities of a device to enable support for new applications or functions by performing an over the air update of the transparent gateway s operating rules that define what events or data are exposed to applications or what functions or operations are triggered by specific events or data.

In an exemplary situation an incoming event or data is received by the base device such as a cellular phone and processed by the wireless stack. The event or data is passed by the transparent gateway proxy to the device s internal API manager i.e. the event or data is made available to the existing APIs exposed by the device manufacturer . The event or data is also examined in view of the rule base to determine if the event or data satisfies one or more rules indicating that the event or data should be made available to the extended API manager so that the event or data can be utilized by an extensible API or function not previously made available by the manufacturer. Further upon the receipt of a rule update process trigger or indicator typically via an appropriate channel such as SMS a control channel or a data channel a rule base update process may be initiated. The update process may involve an update manager element receiving and installing new or revised rules in the rule base where such new or revised rules may operate to enable new functions services or features of the base device or of an external device that is capable of communication with the base device.

In some embodiments the present invention functions as an abstraction layer that can intercept expose or provide access to any API that can be presented by the wireless or network communications stack to enable the development of value added services. For example any API making use of a network stack must receive and or send commands to in the form of function calls and or data exchange with the stack. Since the transparent gateway proxy is between the API and the stack such commands must go through the transparent gateway proxy. In typical usage the transparent gateway proxy would merely allow the commands to pass unmodified but the transparent gateway proxy provides the capability to silently discard the command hence intercept it modify it for example adding additional data or expose it for example responding to a set of API calls that the network does not respond to and translating these into stack calls. For example a transparent gateway proxy might provide a logging utility not provided by the stack or the API by recording all commands to a suitable log file or transmitting a copy of them to a remote device. Embodiments of the present invention can also operate to create one or more new extensible APIs to enable customization of the set of data functions or features that are made available to developers. The extensible APIs that are created can be the same from device to device or may vary among different devices note that the structure and operation of the transparent gateway proxy may also be device specific . The new extensible APIs can function to allow an application to access to events functions and data in ways that are not currently supported or exposed by a device. Further the existing or newly created APIs can be extended in functionality or revised by using an over the air update or other provisioning technique where the update can be sent to all devices or only to a subset as needed.

The newly created extensible APIs may also allow or expose access to custom protocols that would not otherwise exist in the current device. Note that since the gateway proxy is transparent the existing APIs i.e. those enabled by the device manufacturer are still exposed without change to their current configuration and may be used by applications.

Note that it is possible to expose one or more APIs that can trigger changes in a secondary device such as a Bluetooth connected headset that is connected to the base device in which the transparent gateway proxy is installed. Such changes may include operational mode changes tuning updates over the connected network using the base device as a modem network proxy etc. For example an API might be exposed that enables the modification of network stack parameters such as transmission mode e.g. master or slave transmission power maximum transmission packet size and so forth and as such parameters are negotiated between the base and secondary device as a consequence of their network connectivity such changes on the base device lead to equivalent changes on the secondary device. Embodiments of the present invention can also enable functions that might be needed and which are specific to an application that is distributed to the device such as mode changes custom data events that are utilized as part of the operation of the application etc. For example the transparent gateway proxy might post events to an application that are not usually posted from a network stack but reach an application message loop nevertheless because network events by default reach an application message and such events might be events that are custom to an application for example an application reset message.

As mentioned below in the description of the present invention two devices are discussed. One is a secondary device that is external to the device in which the transparent gateway proxy is installed. An example of a secondary device is a wireless device such as a Bluetooth headset although as noted such a device may also in some circumstances function as a base device . The other device is the base device in which the transparent gateway proxy is installed. An example of a base device is a wireless device in the form of a wireless router or a mobile cellular phone.

A wireless network connection is provided between the external wireless device and the base device for communicatively coupling the external wireless device which is an external source and the base device . The base device includes a a communication interface such as a network stack exposed by the hardware in the base device . According to some embodiments the network stack is exposed by the manufacturer of the base device which may be configured in a manner that limits access to certain desired functions features data etc. The base device further includes existing or first APIs that are exposed by the manufacturer. A transparent gateway proxy inserted between the network stack and the existing APIs which are exposed by the manufacturer. The base device further includes one or more existing or later installed applications that rely on only the existing APIs . Extensible or second APIs and a corresponding extensible API manager are provided by the transparent gateway proxy . According to some embodiments the extensible API manager resides in the transparent gateway proxy for providing and managing extensible APIs . Further a rule base is provided in communication with the transparent gateway proxy . One or more sets of rules are provided in the rule base to determine for example which incoming events or data are passed to the extensible APIs . Rule manager is provided in communication with the rule base for managing updates to the rules in the rule base .

In operation the transparent gateway proxy has access to all events and data flow between the external wireless device and the base device . For example the transparent gateway proxy examines each incoming event or data against the one or more sets of rules in the rule base to determine what if any action to take with regards to the examined event or data. For example if the rules request that the event be exposed through the extensible APIs then the transparent gateway proxy passes the event to the extensible API manager which then passes the event to the appropriate one or more of the extensible APIs . It should be appreciated that this process is bi directional such that requests from the extensible API manager are also examined and if allowed by the rules of the rule base communicated to the external wireless device .

One or more local applications are installed on the base device and make use of the extensible APIs provided by the transparent gateway proxy . The applications may be installed by any suitable means including over the air or via a direct connection to a personal computing device. Further as illustrated in parts of other applications may also be installed on the base device . These applications use the extensible APIs but also have functionality distributed between the base device and a backend service . In this case a network connection wired or wireless based is provided for passing data between the backend service and the base device such that the backend service and the base device can share the workload associated with executing the applications . The network connection may be for example the Internet or any other data communications network.

According to some embodiments the external wireless device may be used to control one or more functions or operations of the base device in which the transparent gateway proxy is installed. Further according to some embodiments the external wireless device may be caused to execute an operation or function by an application such as applications and that is installed in and executed by the base device . In either use case embodiments of the present invention permit an application developer to access data user interface elements functions receive event notifications generate a response to an event or interact with other operations of the base device in ways that may not have been made available or exposed by the device manufacturer. This permits the development and implementation of additional functionality user controls or other features that add value for a user.

For example embodiments of the present invention would allow implementation of extensible APIs to expose noise levels battery levels or allow tuning of the base device . Another example would be to expose events that permit a user to use the external wireless device to launch specific applications on the base device .

As an example the present invention would allow implementation of extensible APIs to expose events that permit a user to use the external wireless device to launch an Internet search application on the base device that enables a user to search the Internet for content via voice commands that the user inputs by speaking into the external wireless device . For example the user could launch the Internet search application by speaking a launch command such as search or begin search into the external wireless device or by activating an appropriate button or other element of a user interface on the external wireless device . Once the Internet search application has been launched on the base device the user could input search terms by speaking the search terms into external wireless device . After the user inputs the desired search terms the user could speak a command that causes the Internet search application to execute a search using the inputted search terms. Further the user could browse the search results using verbal commands such as next or more .

As noted above the transparent gateway proxy may be used to expand or extend the APIs provided by a device manufacturer while providing a set of common extensible APIs to application developers that is independent of hardware platform constraints or limitations established by the manufacturer. Accordingly an Internet search application is just one example of an application that may utilize the extensible APIs that are exposed by the inventive transparent gateway proxy. It should be appreciated that developers may develop a virtually unlimited number of applications that could make use of the extensible APIs. These applications may for example be configured to be implemented on the base device and controlled by a user via the external wireless device . Further for example these applications could be for purposes of entertainment and gaming business and productivity social networking reference news and weather multimedia finance education travel etc.

Note that any application including extended applications may make use of the existing APIs supplied by the manufacturer instead of or in addition to the extensible APIs if desired. Also it is possible to create an application that allows the external wireless device to be updated with new applications or to change the firmware of the external wireless device . Further as noted any new extensible API s may be updated or revised by an over the air mechanism to allow new features and services to be modified or made available as needed.

The base device may further include a communications network interface capable of transferring and receiving data using a near field communications NFC capability or near field communications medium typically in accordance with a standardized protocol or data transfer mechanism e.g. ISO 14443 NFC . Near field communications capability is a short range communications capability such as RFID Bluetooth infra red or other data transfer capability that can be used to exchange data between the base device and the secondary device . Thus the base device is capable of communicating and transferring data and or control instructions via both cellular network and near field communications capability.

The base device may also include a processor e.g. a microprocessor or a group of processors working together for processing the functions of the base device and a display to allow a user to see phone numbers and other information messages and user interfaces generated by applications. The base device may further include input output elements to allow a user to input or output information into and out of the base device a speaker to allow the user to hear voice communication music etc. and a microphone to allow the user to transmit her voice through the base device . The base device may also include an antenna for wireless data transfer e.g. data transmission .

As described above the base device further includes the network stack the existing APIs that are exposed by the manufacturer and the transparent gateway proxy inserted between the network stack and the existing APIs . The base device further includes the existing or later installed applications that rely on only the existing APIs . According to the embodiment illustrated in the previously described extensible API manager and rule base reside in the transparent gateway proxy and are therefore not shown. The applications are illustrated in as being installed on the base device and making use of the extensible APIs provided by the transparent gateway proxy . The applications may be installed by any suitable means including over the air or via a direct connection to a personal computing device. According to the illustrated embodiment a data transfer bus is provided for communicatively coupling the components of the base device .

The external wireless device may further include a contactless element capable of transferring and receiving data using a near field communications NFC capability or near field communications medium typically in accordance with a standardized protocol or data transfer mechanism e.g. ISO 14443 NFC . Near field communications capability is a short range communications capability such as RFID Bluetooth infra red or other data transfer capability that can be used to exchange data between the base device . Thus the external wireless device is capable of communicating and transferring data and or control instructions via both cellular network and near field communications capability.

The external wireless device may also include a processor e.g. a microprocessor or a group of processors working together for processing the functions of the external wireless device . Further according to some embodiments the external wireless device may include a display to allow a user to see phone numbers and other information and messages. The external wireless device may also include input elements to allow a user to input information into the device a speaker to allow the user to hear voice communication music etc. and a microphone to allow the user to transmit her voice through the external wireless device . The external wireless device may also include an antenna for wireless data transfer e.g. data transmission .

As indicated at step the transparent gateway proxy receives an event. Then as indicated at step the transparent gateway proxy transfers the event transparently to the existing APIs which are exposed by the manufacturer of the base device . Next as indicated at step the transparent gateway proxy examines the event based on a set of rules which are provided in the rule base to determine whether one or more rules apply to the event. As indicated at box if a rule does not apply the transparent gateway proxy takes no action beyond sending the event to the existing APIs . However as indicated at box if one or more rules do apply the transparent gateway proxy executes the rules. For example the applicable rule or rules may specify that the transparent gateway proxy pass the event to the extensible APIs which are exposed by the transparent gateway proxy .

It should be appreciated that an event may be incoming or outgoing. For example an incoming event or data may be generated by an external source such as the secondary device and provided to the transparent gateway proxy via the network stack . Also for example an outgoing event or data may be generated by the base device internally such as by one or more of the applications or the extensible applications and provided to the transparent gateway proxy which accesses the rule base to determine whether for example to pass the event to the external secondary device . An event for example may trigger any type of action specified by the set of rules in the rule base and supported by the external secondary device including triggering an update process interaction with an application that may reside on the external secondary device installation of an application on the external secondary device or tuning parameters or switching modes to enable feature enhancement on the external secondary device .

In an exemplary implementation the transparent gateway proxy sits at the protocol level in the base device and can be installed either over the air or by another suitable means. For example the transparent gateway proxy may be installed at the time of firmware download. Further the transparent gateway proxy may be provided statically linked to the network stack registered to receive events via a callback and the existing APIs may be statically linked to the transparent gateway proxy instead of as in a normal configuration the network stack . In this instance the transparent gateway proxy would provide the same function calls e.g. registration interface as the network stack . Thus the transparent gateway proxy is invisible to the existing APIs .

An example implementation of the transparent gateway proxy will now be provided with reference to which provides a schematic representation of an exemplary headset communicating with an exemplary mobile telephone during the mobile phone s receipt of a telephone call. In this example occasional reference is made to the components illustrated in . It will be understood that the exemplary headset is a Bluetooth headset comprising an application an hands free profile HFP stack and a host communication interface HCI stack . For example the application may be installed on the CMR of and executed by the processor and the HFP and HCI stacks may be part of the contactless element .

Further it will be understood that the exemplary mobile telephone includes an application an HFP stack and a HCI stack . It should be appreciated that the application may be one of the existing applications illustrated in the embodiments of . Further it should be appreciated that the HFP and HCI stacks may be part of the network stack of the embodiments of the base device illustrated in .

According to the illustrated example the application is a call control application that allows the user to use the headset to initiate and terminate calls answer and reject incoming calls and so forth. The application of the headset communicates with the HFP stack which manages an actual call by for example answering and rejecting the call by communicating with the lower level HCI stack which may be a Bluetooth stack. The HCI stack according to this example controls data sent to the mobile telephone .

It will be understood that according to an embodiment one or more of the existing APIs might be exposed by the manufacturer with a function such as AnswerCall to enable the application of the headset to answer a call. It will also be understood that in response to the application calling such an AnswerCall function the HFP stack of the connected headset may generate the HFP command that corresponds to the AnswerCall function. It will be further understood that the HCI stack will then generate a binary HCI command sufficient to instruct the network stack to send binary data corresponding to the AnswerCall command over the air to the mobile telephone .

Upon receiving the binary data from the network stack the mobile phone will parse the binary data to determine that it is an HFP command. Then the mobile phone will parse the payload of the binary command to determine that the binary command is the AT command ATA and this in turn will cause the call to be answered.

A typical existing API exposes a number of functions similar to AnswerCall . For example an existing API may expose TerminateCall PutCallonHold and Dial functions. The existing API has the advantage that it is straightforward for programmers to use. However as discussed above such existing API has a number of disadvantages including the lack of flexibility poor upgradeability and poor standardization.

Consider now by contrast operation of the mobile phone having the transparent gateway proxy placed just above the HCI stack . According to an embodiment the transparent gateway proxy functions to receive events and data from the HCI stack transmit data and events received from the HCI stack up to higher levels of the stack receive data and events transmitted to the HCI stack from higher stack levels match data and events being transmitted between the HCI stack and the higher stack levels against some suitable rule base such as rule base transmit additional data to the HCI stack or higher stack levels and modify data and events transmitted between the HCI stack and higher stack levels.

According to this example it will be seen that the transparent gateway proxy may receive data and events from the HCI stack including the binary data corresponding to the AnswerCall or the equivalent ATA function. It will also be seen from this example that the transparent gateway proxy may receive data and events corresponding to functions that do not have an API exposure or may send data and events that have functions for which no API is exposed. For example the API might not expose a function PutCurrentCallonHold but since there exists a valid stack level binary command equivalent to such action the transparent gateway proxy could send this binary command and thereby cause the current call to be placed on hold.

Consider for example a case where a programmer wishes merely to record a log of certain actions remotely to aid in debugging or profiling or for other application specific purposes. In this instance the programmer may send the rule manager a request to update the rules in the rule base to include a rule to record a log of the certain actions.

Referring again to consider the receipt of update data by the HCI stack of the mobile telephone . The HCI stack passes this update data to the transparent gateway proxy . The transparent gateway proxy inspect this update data for example by examining the data header to determine the class of event and possibly an event identifier.

According to this example the transparent gateway proxy stores a rule database for example as a list of event identifiers that should be logged. The incoming event may be matched against each of the identifiers in the memory list and if the event identifier matches one of the identifiers in the list the event may be logged by copying it to a file or sending the data over the air to a secondary device for display or storage.

It will be understood that a list in memory can easily be extended by allocating more memory in which to store additional list items. The list may be updated through a function which adds an identifier to the list.

It will be understood that a wide range of rules can be stored for example an identifier mask that matches a range of events together with function or subsequent events that should be called or posted in the event that an application or network stack event matching the identifier mask.

In some embodiments when the network stack identifies a trigger event it will start the process to update the transparent gateway proxy or rule base over the air or through a suitable type of data connection which may include a direct connection such as to a personal computer. An example trigger event might be the connection of a certain type of connection or a connection from a certain hardware address. It will be understood that such information will typically be provided by the network stack for example as a connection received event that may be parsed to determine the type of connection e.g. SPP or peer hardware address.

As an example of an update process consider the case where the update is pre programmed to happen via an SPP connection from a known hardware address. The transparent gateway proxy may monitor network stack connections events until it detects a connection from the known hardware address. It may then interpret all the data received over that connection as a refresh of the rule database in which case it might dealllocate memory for the existing rules allocate new memory and copy the rule data from the connection data stream to the newly allocated memory. Once complete it may use this memory as a rule set for example a set of identifier masks and function calls to make when network stack messages match on of the identifier mask.

It should be understood that the present invention as described above can be implemented in the form of control logic using computer software in a modular or integrated manner. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will know and appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the present invention using hardware and a combination of hardware and software.

Any of the software components or functions described in this application may be implemented as software code to be executed by a processor using any suitable computer language such as for example Java C or Perl using for example conventional or object oriented techniques. The software code may be stored as a series of instructions or commands on a computer readable medium such as a random access memory RAM a read only memory ROM a magnetic medium such as a hard drive or a floppy disk or an optical medium such as a CD ROM. Any such computer readable medium may reside on or within a single computational apparatus and may be present on or within different computational apparatuses within a system or network.

While certain exemplary embodiments have been described in detail and shown in the accompanying drawings it is to be understood that such embodiments are merely illustrative of and not intended to be restrictive of the broad invention and that this invention is not to be limited to the specific arrangements and constructions shown and described since various other modifications may occur to those with ordinary skill in the art.

As used herein the use of a an or the is intended to mean at least one unless specifically indicated to the contrary.

