---

title: Apparatus and methods for providing multi-band operation in a mobile computing device
abstract: Various embodiments for providing multi-band operation in a mobile computing device are described. In one or more embodiments, a mobile computing device may be arranged to support quad-band GSM communication in the GSM-850, GSM-900, GSM-1800, and GSM-1900 frequency bands. The mobile computing device may be arranged to determine a starting frequency band based on the home country and home network. By using the determined starting frequency band associated with the home country and home network of the user, fewer and/or shorter delays may be experienced when searching for and acquiring an available frequency. Once a network search is completed, the mobile computing device may be arranged to determine whether a network can be found in current frequency band pair for normal service, to disconnect from the acquired network if normal service is not supported, and to intelligently search for an available frequency in a different frequency band. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08041321&OS=08041321&RS=08041321
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08041321
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100928
---
A mobile computing device such as a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone or smart phone generally may provide voice and data communications functionality as well as computing and processing capabilities. In some cases a smart phone may support communication over a Global System for Mobile Communications GSM network. In general four frequency bands are used by most GSM mobile computing devices the 850 MHz frequency band GSM 850 the 900 MHz frequency band GSM 900 the 1800 MHz frequency band GSM 1800 and the 1900 MHz frequency band GSM 1900 as defined by the European Telecommunications Standards Institute ETSI .

In the United States Canada and many other countries in the Americas GSM 850 and GSM 1900 are used for GSM service. In most international countries however GSM 900 and GSM 1800 are used for GSM service. A GSM mobile computing device may be configured to operate using only certain frequency bands such as GSM 850 and or GSM 1900 if sold in the United States for example. While the 850 MHz band is close to the 900 MHz band and the 1900 MHz band is close to the 1800 MHz band a mobile computing device configured to work using only GSM 850 and or GSM 1900 will not work in the 900 MHz frequency band or the 1800 MHz frequency band. As a result the mobile computing device of an international traveler often may be incompatible with the frequency band or frequency band pair used at the destination.

Many frequency compatibility problems may be avoided through the use of a multi band mobile computing device that supports background scanning and switching among different frequency bands. Supporting multiple frequency bands however may result in long delays high roaming charges and or device lock up when searching for an available or preferred frequency band. Accordingly there exists the need for an improved apparatus and methods for providing multi band operation in a mobile computing device.

Various embodiments are directed to providing multi band operation in a mobile computing device. In one or more embodiments the mobile computing device may be arranged to support quad band GSM communication in the GSM 850 GSM 900 GSM 1800 and GSM 1900 frequency bands. In various implementations the mobile computing device may be arranged to determine a starting frequency band based on the home country and home network. By using the determined starting frequency band associated with the home country and home network of the user fewer and or shorter delays may be experienced when searching for and acquiring an available frequency. Once a network has been acquired the mobile computing device may be arranged to determine whether an acquired network does not support normal service to disconnect from the acquired network if normal service is not supported and to intelligently search for an available frequency in a different frequency band.

The mobile computing device may provide voice communications functionality in accordance with a GSM cellular radiotelephone system. In various embodiments the mobile computing device may be implemented as a quad band wireless device supporting GSM 850 GSM 900 GSM 1800 and GSM 1900.

In the United States Canada and many other countries in the Americas GSM 850 and GSM 1900 are used for GSM service. GSM 850 uses frequency range 824 849 MHz uplink and frequency range 869 894 MHz downlink . GSM 850 is sometimes referred to as cellular. GSM 1900 uses frequency range 1850 1910 MHz uplink and frequency range 1930 1990 MHz downlink . GSM 1900 is sometimes referred to as Personal Communications Service PCS .

In most international countries GSM 900 and GSM 1800 are used for GSM service. GSM 900 uses frequency range 890 915 MHz uplink and frequency range 935 960 MHz downlink . Extended GSM E GSM which uses frequency range 880 915 MHz uplink and frequency range 925 960 MHz downlink and Railways GSM GSM R which uses frequency range 876 915 MHz uplink and 921 960 MHz downlink are variants included in the GSM 900 specification that provide extended coverage and additional channels. GSM 1800 uses frequency range 1710 1785 MHz uplink and 1805 1880 MHz downlink . GSM 1800 is sometimes referred to as Digital Cellular System DCS .

Although some embodiments may be described in the context of GSM voice communication for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that the mobile computing device may implement voice communications functionality in accordance with other types of cellular radiotelephone systems which are consistent with the described embodiments. Examples of other cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems North American Digital Cellular NADC systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Extended TDMA E TDMA systems Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS systems third generation 3G systems such as Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS systems CDMA 2000 and so forth.

In addition to voice communications functionality the mobile computing device may be arranged to provide wireless wide area network WWAN data communications functionality with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems and so forth.

Although some embodiments may be described in the context of GSM data communication for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that the mobile computing device may implement data communications functionality in accordance with other types of cellular radiotelephone systems which are consistent with the described embodiments. Examples of other cellular radiotelephone systems offering data communications services may include UMTS systems High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA systems High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA EV DO systems Evolution For Data and Voice EV DV systems CDMA 1 RTT systems and so forth.

The mobile computing device also may be arranged to provide wireless local area network WLAN data communications functionality in accordance with one or more WLAN systems. Examples of suitable WLAN systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to perform data communications in accordance with different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a wireless personal area network PAN system. One example of a suitable wireless PAN system offering data communication services may include a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v2.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth. Other examples may include systems using infrared techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electro magnetic induction EMI techniques. An example of EMI techniques may include passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices.

As shown in the embodiment of the mobile computing device may comprise a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor . The host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. In various implementations the host processor and the radio processor may be arranged to communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines audio lines and so forth. Although some embodiments may be described as comprising a dual processor architecture for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that the mobile computing device may comprise any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors consistent with the described embodiments.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and application programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . System programs generally may assist in the running of the mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include without limitation an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth. The mobile computing device may utilize any suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments such as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Pocket PC Microsoft Mobile Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. Examples of application programs may include without limitation one or more messaging applications e.g. telephone voicemail facsimile e mail IM SMS MMS video conferencing web browser applications personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a as a general purpose processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the host processor implemented as a CPU or general purpose processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the host processor may comprise or be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the host processor may be coupled through a memory bus to a memory . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the host processor to access the memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of host processor . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory may be implemented using any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of machine readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The mobile computing device may comprise a display coupled to the host processor . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to transfer and or synchronize information with the local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using one or more types of machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. The memory may comprise for example flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

The mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM card coupled to the radio processor . The SIM card may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM card also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user. In some embodiments the SIM card may comprise an UMTS USIM card or a CDMA RUIM card.

As mentioned above the radio processor may perform voice and or data communication operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. In various embodiments the radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the radio processor implemented as a modem processor or baseband processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the radio processor may comprise or be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments.

In various embodiments the radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

As shown in the mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers or components arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to support voice communication for a cellular radiotelephone system such as a GSM system. The transceiver module also may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to perform data communications in accordance with one or more wireless communications protocols such as WWAN protocols e.g. GSM GPRS protocols EDGE protocols etc. WLAN protocols e.g. IEEE 802.11a b g n IEEE 802.16 IEEE 802.20 etc. PAN protocols Infrared protocols Bluetooth protocols EMI protocols including passive or active RFID protocols and so forth. In some embodiments the transceiver module may comprise a Global Positioning System GPS transceiver to support position determination and or location based services.

The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration it is worthy to note that in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor . In some implementations certain transceivers e.g. WiFi Bluetooth etc. or components may be controlled or integrated with the host processor . The embodiments are not limited in this context.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system for transmitting and or receiving electrical signals. As shown the antenna system may be coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas.

The mobile computing device may be implemented as a multi band device arranged to support multiple frequency bands. In one or more embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise a quad band GSM device supporting GSM communication in the GSM 850 GSM 900 GSM 1800 and GSM 1900 frequency bands. When implemented within a quad band GSM device the transceiver module may enable GSM communication in the GSM 850 GSM 900 GSM 1800 and GSM 1900 frequency bands. Although some embodiments may be described in the context of GSM communication for purposes of illustration the mobile computing device may be arranged to operate in accordance with other types of cellular systems e.g. UMTS which are consistent with the described embodiments.

The mobile computing device may comprise a frequency band control module . In various embodiments the frequency band control module may be implemented by the host processor the radio processor or combination thereof. In some implementations the frequency band control module may be coupled to the transceiver module . In one or more embodiments the frequency band control module may be arranged to search for and acquire an available frequency supported by the mobile computing device . The frequency band control module may comprise for example hardware and or software such as frequency band control logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. radio processor . The logic may be stored internally or externally to the logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media.

The frequency band control module may be arranged to access the SIM card of the mobile computing device . In one or more embodiments the frequency band control module may retrieve a unique identity code associated with the user of the mobile computing device . The unique identity code may comprise for example an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI conforming to International Telecommunication Union ITU standards. The IMSI may be a unique number e.g. fifteen digit number associated with a particular GSM or UMTS network mobile user. The IMSI may comprise a mobile country code MCC a Mobile Network Code MNC and a unique mobile station identification number MSIN within the customer base of the user s home network. The IMSI may be used for example to determine subscriber contracts indicating whether the subscriber of a particular home network has permission and or roaming agreements to use one or more outside networks.

The frequency band control module may be arranged to identify a home country and home network associated with the user and or the mobile computing device . In one or more embodiments the frequency band control module may identify the home country and home network from the unique identity code e.g. IMSI . For example the frequency band control module may identify a specific country from the MCC and a specific network from the MNC of the IMSI . In various implementations the frequency band control module may be arranged to retrieve the IMSI from the SIM card and to identify the home country and home network of the user while the radio is off and or prior to performing a search within one or more frequency bands supported by the mobile computing device .

The frequency band control module may be arranged to access a frequency band lookup database . The frequency band lookup database may comprise any type of data structure e.g. array file table record and may be implemented by various types of storage media e.g. memory . In one or more embodiments the frequency band lookup database may be arranged to store one or more frequency band lookup tables associating particular starting frequency band information with various countries and networks. The starting frequency band information may comprise for example a particular starting frequency band e.g. GSM 1900 or frequency band pair e.g. GSM 850 1900 associated with a specific network e.g. Cingular Wireless available within a specific country e.g. United States . In various implementations the frequency band lookup database may be structure to associate the starting frequency band information with particular MCCs and MNCs.

In general the frequency band lookup database will contain starting frequency band information for various countries and networks prior to the first use of the mobile computing device by a purchaser. While the number of networks and countries included in the frequency band lookup database may vary the starting frequency band information typically will be as comprehensive as possible to support worldwide use of the mobile computing device . In some cases the frequency band lookup database may be populated with the starting frequency information at the time of manufacture or point of sale of the mobile computing device . It can be appreciated that in some cases the frequency band lookup database may be updated by receiving and or downloading the most currently available information for the various countries and networks.

The frequency band control module may be arranged to use the frequency band lookup database to determine a particular starting frequency band for which to search. The particular starting frequency band may be determined for example based on the home country and home network associated with the user and or the mobile computing device . In one or more embodiments the frequency band control module may determine the particular starting frequency band from the frequency band lookup database based the MCC and MNC of the IMSI .

The frequency band control module may be arranged to begin searching for an available frequency using the determined starting frequency band. It can be appreciated that by using the determined starting frequency band associated with the home country or home network of the user the frequency band control module may experience fewer and or shorter delays when searching for and acquiring an available frequency. In addition there is less chance of incurring roaming charges by connecting to an outside network rather than the home network of the user when available. In one or more embodiments the frequency band control module may be arranged to detect whether a use of the mobile computing device is a first or out of box use upon power up and to determine a particular starting frequency band prior to performing an initial search for an available frequency.

In some implementations the frequency band control module may be arranged to set reset and or override a default frequency band of the mobile computing device with the determined starting frequency band. For example if manufactured in the United States the mobile computing device may be configured to begin searching for an available frequency beginning with the GSM 1900 frequency band by default. In the event that the default frequency band is not supported where the mobile computing device is first used the mobile computing device may undertake an exhaustive and unsuccessful search within one or more unsupported frequency bands before eventually finding an available frequency resulting in long delays and an overall poor out of box experience for the user.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to support scanning and switching among different frequency bands. In one or more embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise a quad band GSM device supporting background scanning and switching among the GSM 850 GSM 900 GSM 1800 and GSM 1900 frequency bands. When implemented within a quad band GSM device the transceiver module may enable the scanning of and switching among the GSM 850 GSM 900 GSM 1800 and GSM 1900 frequency bands. Although some embodiments may be described in the context of GSM communication for purposes of illustration the mobile computing device may be arranged to operate in accordance with other types of cellular systems e.g. UMTS which are consistent with the described embodiments.

In one or more embodiments the frequency band control module may be arranged to control the continuous or periodic background scanning of other frequency bands supported by the mobile computing device after an available frequency band is found and or acquired. The frequency band control module also may be configured to control the switching from an acquired frequency to another available frequency that provides better coverage in the event that the current frequency is or becomes unable to support normal service. For example if the mobile computing device locks into a frequency within the GSM 1900 frequency band the frequency band control module may perform background scanning of and switching to a frequency within the GSM 850 GSM 900 and or GSM 1800 frequency bands. In various implementations within each band pair 900 1800 or 850 1900 the radio behavior is specified to be fully automatic and to support background scanning such that when a search in other frequency band is ongoing the mobile computing device is still operating in current frequency band to keep a network connection.

In some cases the frequency band control module may be arranged to search for one or more frequency bands in which the mobile computing device previously had operated. For example if the mobile computing device is powered down in a particular frequency band the frequency band control module may remember that particular frequency band when the mobile computing device is powered up. Upon power up the frequency band control module may begin searching for an available frequency band starting with the most recent frequency band in which the mobile computing device had operated. In addition the home network of the user may provide enhanced network searching ENS features which disable or disallow manual frequency band searching such that automatic frequency band searching is performed without user intervention.

In such cases however there is a possibility that the mobile computing device could experience device lock up unless preventative measures are employed. It can be appreciated that some countries such as Thailand provide overlapping coverage for GSM services utilizing multiple frequency bands e.g. GSM 900 GSM 1800 and GSM 1900 and that this situation may cause behavioral problems with the mobile computing device for international travelers.

For example if the mobile computing device is powered down in the United States after operating in the PCS frequency band and then powered up in Thailand the frequency band control module may begin searching for an available frequency starting with the PCS frequency band. Because there is PCS coverage in Thailand the mobile computing device may find and lock to an available frequency within the PCS frequency band when powered up. However if the user is not a local subscriber to the PCS network or if the PCS network in Thailand does not have a roaming agreement with the home network of the user the mobile computing device may be unable to make and receive normal service voice and or data calls. Without a subscription or roaming agreement the mobile computing device may find and lock into a PCS network that provides only emergency services e.g. 911 calls and does not support normal service voice and or data calls. The mobile computing device could then lock up and not be able to operate other than for emergency calls.

In one or more embodiments the frequency band control module may be arranged to determine whether an acquired network does not support normal service and to exit or disconnect from the acquired network if normal service is not supported. In various implementations the frequency band control module may be arranged to receive an indication of network service from a registration status message received from the radio processor . In some cases the frequency band control module may be arranged to query the radio processor to retrieve the registration status message. In other cases the radio processor may send a registration status message to the frequency band control module whenever there is a change in the registration status.

The registration status message may comprise for example a GSM attention command AT command message according to an ETSI standard protocol. It can be appreciated that other suitable registration status messages in accordance with an interface protocol supported by the modem processor may be used consistent with the described embodiments.

When a network has been acquired but registration is unsuccessful the frequency band control module may determine that the acquired network does not support normal service and that a switch is needed. For example if the modem processor is unable to register with an acquired network the frequency band control module may terminate the connection to the network and may initiate an attempt to locate another available network. In some implementations the frequency band control module may discontinue or terminate a search within one frequency band if roaming persists for a predetermined period of time and then perform a search of a different frequency band.

In one or more embodiments the frequency band control module may be arranged to intelligently search for an available frequency in a different frequency band. For example the frequency band control module may be arranged to determine the current location of the mobile computing device based on the unsuccessfully registered network. In addition the frequency band control module may access the SIM card of the mobile computing device and retrieve the IMSI associated with the user of the mobile computing device . The frequency band control module may use the IMSI to identify the home country and home network of the user. From such information the frequency band control module may recognize that the user is not local and may tailor the search for an available frequency in the most appropriate frequency band based on the home country home network and current location of the user.

The logic flow may comprise identifying a home country and home network associated with a mobile computing device block . In various embodiments the home country and home network may be obtained by retrieving a unique identity code associated with the user of the mobile computing device . The unique identity code may comprise and IMSI stored in the SIM card of the mobile computing device . The home country may be identified from the MCC of the IMSI and the home network may be identified from the MNC of the IMSI . In various implementations the frequency band control module may be arranged to retrieve the IMSI from the SIM card and to identify the home country and home network of the user while the radio is off and or prior to performing a search within one or more frequency bands supported by the mobile computing device .

The logic flow may comprise determine a starting frequency band based on the home country and home network block . In various embodiments a frequency band lookup database may be accessed to determine the starting frequency. The frequency band lookup database may be arranged to store one or more frequency band lookup tables associating particular starting frequency band information with various countries and networks. The starting frequency band information may comprise for example a particular starting frequency band or frequency band pair associated with a specific network available within a specific country.

In various implementations the frequency band lookup database may be structure to associate the starting frequency band information with particular MCCs and MNCs and the particular starting frequency band may be determined from the frequency band lookup database based the MCC and MNC of the IMSI . In one or more embodiments a determination may be made whether a use of the mobile computing device is a first or out of box use upon power up and to determine a particular starting frequency band prior to performing an initial search for an available frequency. In some cases a default frequency band may be set reset and or overridden by with the determined starting frequency band.

The logic flow may comprise searching for an available frequency within the starting frequency band block . In various embodiments by using the determined starting frequency band associated with the home country or home network of the user fewer and or shorter delays may be experienced when searching for and acquiring an available frequency. In addition there is less chance of incurring roaming charges by connecting to an outside network rather than the home network of the user when available.

The logic flow may comprise determining whether an acquired network does not support normal service block . In some cases an acquired network may provide only emergency services e.g. 911 calls and does not support normal service voice and or data calls. Without a subscription to or roaming agreement with the acquired network the mobile computing device could lock up and not be able to operate other than for emergency calls. In various embodiments an indication of network service may be obtained from a registration status message received from the radio processor . In some implementations the radio processor may be queried to retrieve the registration status. In other implementations the radio processor may send a registration status indication whenever there is a change in the registration status. The registration status indication may comprise for example a GSM AT command or other suitable registration status indication in accordance with an interface protocol supported by the modem processor .

The logic flow may comprise terminating a connection to the acquired network if no normal service can be acquired in current frequency band pair block . In various embodiments when a network has been acquired but registration is unsuccessful it may be determined that the acquired network does not support normal service and that a switch is needed. In various implementations switching may occur only after the mobile computing device has exhausted all available networks in the current band pair mode and has found that no normal service can be acquired. If the mobile computing device can make an emergency call it does not lock into that particular network. Rather the mobile computing device camps on a network with the strongest signal. If the modem processor is unable to register with an acquired network the connection to the network may be terminated.

The logic flow may comprise searching for an available frequency in a different frequency band block . In various embodiments the current location of the mobile computing device may be determined based on the unsuccessfully registered network. In addition the SIM card of the mobile computing device may be accessed to retrieve the IMSI associated with the user. The IMSI may be used to identify the home country and home network of the user. From such information a search for an available frequency in the most appropriate frequency band may be performed based on the home country home network and current location of the user. In some implementations a search may be discontinued or terminated within one frequency band if roaming persists for a predetermined period of time and then perform a search of a different frequency band.

Numerous specific details have been set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details are representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design and or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include more or less elements in alternate topologies as desired for a given implementation.

It is worthy to note that any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Although some embodiments may be illustrated and described as comprising exemplary functional components or modules performing various operations it can be appreciated that such components or modules may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. The functional components and or modules may be implemented for example by logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. processor . Such logic may be stored internally or externally to a logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media.

It also is to be appreciated that the described embodiments illustrate exemplary implementations and that the functional components and or modules may be implemented in various other ways which are consistent with the described embodiments. Furthermore the operations performed by such components or modules may be combined and or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of components or modules.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

It is worthy to note that some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. With respect to software elements for example the term coupled may refer to interfaces message interfaces API exchanging messages and so forth.

Some of the figures may include a flow diagram. Although such figures may include a particular logic flow it can be appreciated that the logic flow merely provides an exemplary implementation of the general functionality. Further the logic flow does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition the logic flow may be implemented by a hardware element a software element executed by a processor or any combination thereof.

While certain features of the embodiments have been illustrated as described above many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

