---

title: Methods of treating Hodgkin's and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma
abstract: The present invention provides methods of selectively inducing terminal differentiation, cell growth arrest and/or apoptosis of neoplastic cells, and/or inhibiting histone deacetylase (HDAC) by administration of pharmaceutical compositions comprising potent HDAC inhibitors. The oral bioavailability of the active compounds in the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention is surprisingly high. Moreover, the pharmaceutical compositions unexpectedly give rise to high, therapeutically effective blood levels of the active compounds over an extended period of time. The present invention further provides a safe, daily dosing regimen of these pharmaceutical compositions, which is easy to follow, and which results in a therapeutically effective amount of the HDAC inhibitors in vivo.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08067472&OS=08067472&RS=08067472
owner: Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research
number: 08067472
owner_city: New York
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100423
---
This application is a Divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 853 700 filed on Sep. 11 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 732 490 which is a Continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 10 379 149 filed on Mar. 4 2003 which claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 361 759 filed Mar. 4 2002. The teachings of these applications are incorporated herein by reference in their entirety.

Certain subject matter claimed herein was made under a Joint Research Agreement between Aton Pharma Inc. and Sloan Kettering Institute for Cancer Research and its affiliate Memorial Hospital for Cancer and Allied Diseases.

This invention was made in whole or in part with government support under grant number 1R21CA 096228 01 awarded by the National Cancer Institute. The government may have certain rights in the invention.

The present invention provides methods of selectively inducing terminal differentiation cell growth arrest and or apoptosis of neoplastic cells and or inhibiting histone deacetylases HDAC administration of pharmaceutical compositions comprising HDAC inhibitors. The oral formulations of the pharmaceutical compositions have favorable pharmacokinetic profiles such as high bioavailability and surprisingly give rise to high blood levels of the active compounds over an extended period of time.

Throughout this application various publications are referenced by arabic numerals within parentheses. Full citations for these publications may be found at the end of the specification immediately preceding the claims. The disclosures of these publications in their entireties are hereby incorporated by reference into this application in order to more fully describe the state of the art to which this invention pertains.

Cancer is a disorder in which a population of cells has become in varying degrees unresponsive to the control mechanisms that normally govern proliferation and differentiation. For many years there have been two principal strategies for chemotherapeutic treatment of cancer a blocking hormone dependent tumor cell proliferation by interference with the production or peripheral action of sex hormones and b killing cancer cells directly by exposing them to cytotoxic substances which injure both neoplastic and normal cell populations.

Cancer therapy is also being attempted by the induction of terminal differentiation of the neoplastic cells 1 . In cell culture models differentiation has been reported by exposure of cells to a variety of stimuli including cyclic AMP and retinoic acid 2 3 aclarubicin and other anthracyclines 4 .

Despite many advances in the field of oncology the majority of solid tumors remain incurable in the advanced stages. Cytotoxic therapy is used in most cases however it often causes significant morbidity to the patient without significant clinical benefit. Less toxic and more specific agents to treat and control advanced malignancies are being explored.

There is abundant evidence that neoplastic transformation does not necessarily destroy the potential of cancer cells to differentiate 1 5 6 . There are many examples of tumor cells which do not respond to the normal regulators of proliferation and appear to be blocked in the expression of their differentiation program and yet can be induced to differentiate and cease replicating. A variety of agents including some relatively simple polar compounds 5 7 9 derivatives of vitamin D and retinoic acid 10 12 steroid hormones 13 growth factors 6 14 proteases 15 16 tumor promoters 17 18 and inhibitors of DNA or RNA synthesis 4 19 24 can induce various transformed cell lines and primary human tumor explants to express more differentiated characteristics.

Early studies identified a series of polar compounds that were effective inducers of differentiation in a number of transformed cell lines 8 9 . Of these the most effective inducer was the hybrid polar apolar compound N N hexamethylene bisacetamide HMBA 9 . The use of this polar apolar compound to induce murine erythroleukemia cells MELC to undergo erythroid differentiation with suppression of oncogenicity has proved a useful model to study inducer mediated differentiation of transformed cells 5 7 9 . HMBA induced MELC terminal erythroid differentiation is a multi step process. Upon addition of HMBA to MELC 745A DS19 in culture there is a latent period of 10 to 12 hours before commitment to terminal differentiation is detected. Commitment is defined as the capacity of cells to express terminal differentiation despite removal of inducer 25 . Upon continued exposure to HMBA there is progressive recruitment of cells to differentiate. The present inventors have reported that MELC cell lines made resistant to relatively low levels of vincristine become markedly more sensitive to the inducing action of HMBA and can be induced to differentiate with little or no latent period 26 .

HMBA is capable of inducing phenotypic changes consistent with differentiation in a broad variety of cells lines 5 . The characteristics of the drug induced effect have been most extensively studied in the murine erythroleukemia cell system MELC 5 25 27 28 . MELC induction of differentiation is both time and concentration dependent. The minimum concentration required to demonstrate an effect in vitro in most strains is 2 to 3 mM the minimum duration of continuous exposure generally required to induce differentiation in a substantial portion 20 of the population without continuing drug exposure is about 36 hours.

The primary target of action of HMBA is not known. There is evidence that protein kinase C is involved in the pathway of inducer mediated differentiation 29 . The in vitro studies provided a basis for evaluating the potential of HMBA as a cytodifferentiation agent in the treatment of human cancers 30 . Several phase I clinical trials with HMBA have been completed 31 36 . Clinical trials have shown that this compound can induce a therapeutic response in patients with cancer 35 36 . However these phase I clinical trials also have demonstrated that the potential efficacy of HMBA is limited in part by dose related toxicity which prevents achieving optimal blood levels and by the need for intravenous administration of large quantities of the agent over prolonged periods.

It has been reported that a number of compounds related to HMBA with polar groups separated by apolar linkages that on a molar basis are as active 37 or 100 times more active than HMBA 38 . As a class however it has been found that the symmetrical dimers such as HMBA and related compounds are not the best cytodifferentiating agents.

It has unexpectedly been found that the best compounds comprise two polar end groups separated by a flexible chain of methylene groups wherein one or both of the polar end groups is a large hydrophobic group. Preferably the polar end groups are different and only one is a large hydrophobic group. These compounds are unexpectedly a thousand times more active than HMBA and ten times more active than HMBA related compounds.

Histone deacetylase inhibitors such as suberoylanilide hydroxamide acid SAHA belong to this class of agents that have the ability to induce tumor cell growth arrest differentiation and or apoptosis 39 . These compounds are targeted towards mechanisms inherent to the ability of a neoplastic cell to become malignant as they do not appear to have toxicity in doses effective for inhibition of tumor growth in animals 40 . There are several lines of evidence that histone acetylation and deacetylation are mechanisms by which transcriptional regulation in a cell is achieved 41 . These effects are thought to occur through changes in the structure of chromatin by altering the affinity of histone proteins for coiled DNA in the nucleosome. There are five types of histones that have been identified in nucleosomes designated H1 H2A HB H3 and H4 . Each nucleosome contains two of each histone type within its core except for H1 which is present singly in the outer portion of the nucleosome structure. It is believed that when the histone proteins are hypoacetylated there is a greater affinity of the histone to the DNA phosphate backbone This affinity causes DNA to be tightly bound to the histone and renders the DNA inaccessible to transcriptional regulatory elements and machinery. The regulation of acetylated states occurs through the balance of activity between two enzyme complexes histone acetyl transferase HAT and histone deacetylase HDAC . The hypoacetylated state is thought to inhibit transcription of associated DNA. This hypoacetylated state is catalyzed by large multiprotein complexes that include HDAC enzymes. In particular HDACs have been shown to catalyze the removal of acetyl groups from the chromatin core histones.

The inhibition of HDAC by SAHA is thought occur through direct interaction with the catalytic site of the enzyme as demonstrated by X ray crystallography studies 42 . The result of HDAC inhibition is not believed to have a generalized effect on the genome but rather only affects a small subset of the genome 43 . Evidence provided by DNA microarrays using malignant cell lines cultured with a HDAC inhibitor shows that there are a finite 1 2 number of genes whose products are altered. For example cells treated in culture with HDAC inhibitors show a consistent induction of the cyclin dependent kinase inhibitor p21 44 . This protein plays an important role in cell cycle arrest. HDAC inhibitors are thought to increase the rate of transcription of p21 by propagating the hyperacetylated state of histones in the region of the p21 gene thereby making the gene accessible to transcriptional machinery. Genes whose expression is not affected by HDAC inhibitors do not display changes in the acetylation of regional associated histones 45 .

It has been shown in several instances that the disruption of HAT or HDAC activity is implicated in the development of a malignant phenotype. For instance in acute promyelocytic leukemia the oncoprotein produced by the fusion of PML and RAR alpha appears to suppress specific gene transcription through the recruitment of HDACs 46 . In this manner the neoplastic cell is unable to complete differentiation and leads to excess proliferation of the leukemic cell line.

U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 369 108 5 932 616 5 700 811 6 087 367 and 6 511 990 issued to some of the present inventors disclose compounds useful for selectively inducing terminal differentiation of neoplastic cells which compounds have two polar end groups separated by a flexible chain of methylene groups or a by a rigid phenyl group wherein one or both of the polar end groups is a large hydrophobic group. Some of the compounds have an additional large hydrophobic group at the same end of the molecule as the first hydrophobic group which further increases differentiation activity about 100 fold in an enzymatic assay and about 50 fold in a cell differentiation assay. Methods of synthesizing the compounds used in the methods and pharmaceutical compositions of this invention are fully described the aforementioned patents the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference.

The aforementioned patents do not disclose specific oral formulations of the HDAC inhibitors or specific dosages and dosing schedules of the recited compounds. Importantly the aforementioned patents do not disclose oral formulations that have favorable pharmacokinetic profiles such as high bioavailability which gives rise to high blood levels of the active compounds over an extended period of time.

The class of compounds of the present invention may be useful for selectively inducing terminal differentiation of neoplastic cells and therefore aid in treatment of tumors in patients. Thus there is an urgent need to discover suitable dosages and dosing schedules of these compounds and to develop formulations preferably oral formulations which give rise to steady therapeutically effective blood levels of the active compounds over an extended period of time.

The present invention provides methods of producing a mean plasma concentration of a histone deacetylase HDAC inhibitor capable of inhibiting a histone deacetylase in vivo in a subject over a period of at least two hours following administration which comprises administering to said subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising a HDAC inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.

The present invention also provides methods for selectively inducing terminal differentiation cell growth arrest and or apoptosis of neoplastic cells thereby inhibiting proliferation of such cells and methods for inducing differentiation of tumor cells by producing a mean plasma concentration of a histone deacetylase HDAC inhibitor capable of inhibiting a histone deacetylase in vivo in a subject over a period of at least two hours following administration by administering to said subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising a HDAC inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.

The present invention further provides methods of producing a mean plasma concentration of at least about 10 nM of suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid SAHA in vivo in a subject over a period of at least two hours following administration which comprises administering to said subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising SAHA or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.

The present invention also provides methods for selectively inducing terminal differentiation cell growth arrest and or apoptosis of neoplastic cells thereby inhibiting proliferation of such cells and methods for inducing differentiation of tumor cells by producing a mean plasma concentration of at least 10 nM of SAHA in vivo in a subject over a period of at least two hours following administration by administering to said subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising SAHA or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.

The present invention provides pharmaceutical compositions suitable for oral administration which comprise a compound useful for selectively inducing terminal differentiation cell growth arrest and or apoptosis of neoplastic cells and or which is a potent inhibitor of histone deacetylase HDAC . The pharmaceutical compositions are further comprised of microcrystalline cellulose croscarmellose sodium and magnesium stearate. The present invention also provides for pharmaceutical compositions for oral administration comprising SAHA microcrystalline cellulose croscarmellose sodium and magnesium stearate. The oral bioavailability of the active compounds in the formulations of the present invention is surprisingly high. Moreover the formulations unexpectedly give rise to high therapeutically effective blood levels of the active compounds over an extended period of time. The present invention further provides a safe daily dosing regimen of these formulations which is easy to follow and to adhere to.

As demonstrated herein it has been surprisingly and unexpectedly found that oral formulations comprising HDAC inhibitors particularly suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid SAHA have very high overall oral bioavailability of the active compound in vivo. Furthermore the formulations give rise to high blood levels of the active compound which remain unexpectedly high over an extended period of time for example up to 10 12 hours. The oral formulations of the present invention have many advantages especially when compared to parenteral formulations since on the one end they provide high stable and prolonged therapeutically effective blood levels of HDAC inhibitors and on the other hand are easy to administer to patients by any conventional mode of oral administration.

Accordingly the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition for oral administration comprising a histone deacetylase HDAC inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent wherein the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of the HDAC inhibitor effective to inhibit a histone deacetylase HDAC in vivo for a period of at least 2 hours following administration. In a preferred embodiment the concentration of the HDAC inhibitor is effective to inhibit the HDAC for a period of at least 10 hours following administration.

In a preferred embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition for oral administration comprising SAHA or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent wherein the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of SAHA effective to inhibit a histone deacetylase HDAC in vivo for a period of at least 2 hours following administration. In a preferred embodiment the concentration of SAHA is effective to inhibit the HDAC for a period of at least 10 hours following administration.

The formulations of the present invention are useful for selectively inducing terminal differentiation cell growth arrest and or apoptosis of neoplastic cells and therefore aid in treatment of tumors in patients.

Accordingly the present invention also provides a method of selectively inducing terminal differentiation of neoplastic cells in a subject and thereby inhibiting proliferation of such cells in the subject comprising the step of orally administering to the subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising a histone deacetylase HDAC inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent wherein the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of the HDAC inhibitor effective to inhibit a histone deacetylase HDAC in vivo for a period of at least 2 hours following administration.

Furthermore the present invention also provides a method of selectively inducing cell growth arrest of neoplastic cells in a subject and thereby inhibiting proliferation of such cells in the subject comprising the step of orally administering to the subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising a histone deacetylase HDAC inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent wherein the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of the HDAC inhibitor effective to inhibit a histone deacetylase HDAC in vivo for a period of at least 2 hours following administration.

Furthermore the present invention also provides a method of selectively inducing apoptosis of neoplastic cells in a subject and thereby inhibiting proliferation of such cells in the subject comprising the step of orally administering to the subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising a histone deacetylase HDAC inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent wherein the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of the HDAC inhibitor effective to inhibit a histone deacetylase HDAC in vivo for a period of at least 2 hours following administration.

Furthermore the present invention also provides a method of inducing differentiation of tumor cells in a subject having a tumor comprising the step of orally administering to the subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising a histone deacetylase HDAC inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent wherein the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of the HDAC inhibitor effective to inhibit a histone deacetylase HDAC in vivo for a period of at least 2 hours following administration.

Furthermore the present invention provides a method of inhibiting the activity of a histone deacetylase in a subject comprising the step of orally administering to the subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising a histone deacetylase HDAC inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent wherein the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of the HDAC inhibitor effective to inhibit a histone deacetylase HDAC in vivo for a period of at least 2 hours following administration.

Furthermore the present invention also provides a method of selectively inducing terminal differentiation cell growth arrest and or apoptosis of neoplastic cells in a subject and thereby inhibiting proliferation of such cells in the subject comprising the step of administering to the subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising SAHA or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof wherein the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of SAHA effective to inhibit a histone deacetylase HDAC in vivo for a period of at least 2 hours following administration.

Furthermore the present invention also provides a method of inducing differentiation of tumor cells in a subject having a tumor comprising the step of administering to the subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising SAHA or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof wherein the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of SAHA effective to inhibit a histone deacetylase HDAC in vivo for a period of at least 2 hours following administration.

Furthermore the present invention provides a method of inhibiting the activity of a histone deacetylase in a subject comprising the step of orally administering to the subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising SAHA or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent wherein the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of SAHA effective to inhibit a histone deacetylase HDAC in vivo for a period of at least 2 hours following administration.

In a preferred embodiment SAHA or any of the HDAC inhibitors are administered to the patient at a total daily dosage of between 25 4000 mg m. In another preferred embodiment SAHA or any of the HDAC inhibitors are administered to the patient at a total daily dosage of 200 mg. SAHA or any of the HDAC inhibitors are administered to the patient at a total daily dosage of 400 mg.

In one preferred embodiment the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of the HDAC inhibitor e.g. SAHA capable of inhibiting histone deacetylase over a period of at least 2 hours following administration which is preferably at a concentration of at least about 10 nM. In yet another preferred embodiment the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of the HDAC inhibitor of at least about 10 nM over a period of at least 10 hours following administration.

In one preferred embodiment the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of the HDAC inhibitor e.g. SAHA capable of selectively inducing terminal differentiation cell growth arrest and or apoptosis of neoplastic cells or capable of inducing differentiation of tumor cells in a tumor wherein the concentration is maintained over a period of at least 2 hours following administration which is preferably at a concentration of at least about 2.5 M. In yet another preferred embodiment the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of the HDAC inhibitor of at least about 2.5 M over a period of at least 10 hours following administration.

The compositions of the present invention may be formulated in any unit dosage form liquid or solid suited for oral administration for example in the form of a pellet a tablet a coated tablet a capsule a gelatin capsule a solution a suspension or a dispersion. In a preferred embodiment the composition is in the form of a gelatin capsule.

Any inert excipient that is commonly used as a carrier or diluent may be used in the formulations of the present invention such as for example a gum a starch a sugar a cellulosic material an acrylate or mixtures thereof. A preferred diluent is microcrystalline cellulose. The compositions may further comprise a disintegrating agent e.g. sodium croscarmellose and a lubricant e.g. magnesium stearate and in addition may comprise one or more additives selected from a binder a buffer a protease inhibitor a surfactant a solubilizing agent a plasticizer an emulsifier a stabilizing agent a viscosity increasing agent a sweetener a film forming agent or any combination thereof. Furthermore the compositions of the present invention may be in the form of controlled release or immediate release formulations.

A wide variety of HDAC inhibitors are suitable for use in the compositions of the present invention. In a preferred embodiment the HDAC inhibitor is suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid SAHA .

Other non limiting examples of HDAC inhibitors that are suitable for use in the compositions of the present invention are 

Furthermore in accordance with specific embodiments of the present invention there is provided a pharmaceutical composition for oral administration comprising a histone deacetylase HDAC inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof microcrystalline cellulose as a carrier or diluent croscarmellose sodium as a disintegrant and magnesium stearate as a lubricant wherein the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of the HDAC inhibitor effective to inhibit a histone deacetylase in vivo for a period of at least 2 hours following administration. In a preferred embodiment the HDAC inhibitor is suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid SAHA .

Furthermore in accordance with specific embodiments of the present invention there is provided a pharmaceutical composition for oral administration comprising suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid SAHA or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof microcrystalline cellulose as a carrier or diluent croscarmellose sodium as a disintegrant and magnesium stearate as a lubricant wherein the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of the HDAC inhibitor effective to inhibit a histone deacetylase in vivo for a period of at least 2 hours following administration. In another preferred embodiment the composition comprises 50 70 by weight of SAHA or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof 20 40 by weight microcrystalline cellulose as a carrier or diluent 5 15 by weight croscarmellose sodium as a disintegrant and 0.1 5 by weight magnesium stearate as a lubricant. In another preferred embodiment the composition comprises about 50 200 mg of SAHA. In a particularly preferred embodiment the composition is in the form of a gelatin capsule.

The present invention further provides a safe daily dosing regimen of these formulations which is easy to follow and to adhere to. The formulations of the present invention are useful for selectively inducing terminal differentiation cell growth arrest and or apoptosis of neoplastic cells and therefore aid in treatment of tumors in patients.

The present invention provides methods of producing a mean plasma concentration of a histone deacetylase HDAC inhibitor capable of inhibiting a histone deacetylase in vivo in a subject over a period of at least two hours following administration which comprises administering to said subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising a HDAC inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.

The present invention also provides methods for selectively inducing terminal differentiation cell growth arrest and or apoptosis of neoplastic cells thereby inhibiting porliferation of such cells and methods for inducing differentiation of tumor cells by producing a mean plasma concentration of a histone deacetylase HDAC inhibitor capable of inhibiting a histone deacetylase in vivo in a subject over a period of at least two hours following administration by administering to said subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising a HDAC inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.

The present invention further provides methods of producing a mean plasma concentration of at least about 10 nM of suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid SAHA in vivo in a subject over a period of at least two hours following administration which comprises administering to said subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising SAHA or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.

The present invention also provides methods for selectively inducing terminal differentiation cell growth arrest and or apoptosis of neoplastic cells thereby inhibiting proliferation of such cells and methods for inducing differentiation of tumor cells by producing a mean plasma concentration of at least 10 nM of SAHA in vivo in a subject over a period of at least two hours following administration by administering to said subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising SAHA or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.

The present invention provides pharmaceutical compositions suitable for oral administration which comprise a compound useful for selectively inducing terminal differentiation cell growth arrest and or apoptosis of neoplastic cells and or which is a potent inhibitor of histone deacetylase HDAC . The pharmaceutical compositions are further comprised of microcrystalline cellulose croscarmellose sodium and magnesium stearate. The present invention also provides for pharmaceutical compositions for oral administration comprising SAHA microcrystalline cellulose croscarmellose sodium and magnesium stearate. The oral bioavailability of the active compounds in the formulations of the present invention is surprisingly high. Moreover the formulations unexpectedly give rise to high therapeutically effective blood levels of the active compounds over an extended period of time. The present invention further provides a safe daily dosing regimen of these formulations which is easy to follow and to adhere to.

The oral bioavailability of the active compounds in the formulations of the present invention is surprisingly high. Moreover the formulations unexpectedly give rise to high therapeutically effective blood levels of the active compounds over an extended period of time. The present invention further provides a safe daily dosing regimen of these formulations which is easy to follow and which gives rise to a therapeutically effective amount of the recited compounds in vivo. The formulations of the present invention are useful for selectively inducing terminal differentiation cell growth arrest and or apoptosis of neoplastic cells and therefore aid in treatment of tumors in patients.

As demonstrated herein the pharmaceutical compositions provided in the present invention give rise to an initial mean plasma concentration i.e. the concentration that is obtained immediately after administration of the formulation which remains unexpectedly high over an extended period of time. As compared with parenteral formulations such as IV formulations having the same dosage in which the active compounds clear almost immediately the oral compositions retain a high mean plasma concentration of the active compound over an extended period of time for at least 2 hours but more typically at least 10 or 12 hours. Typically the mean plasma concentration of the oral dosage formulations does not drop below 50 of the initial mean plasma concentration for a period of time of up to 12 hours or even longer.

Up until the findings of the present invention intravenous administration of the HDAC inhibitors described herein has proven to be the most effective. The intravenous administration of the compound must be performed continuously i.e. daily for a prolonged period of time such as for at least 3 days and preferably more than 5 days. This obviously provides a heavy burden on the patient receiving this treatment. The unexpected and surprising findings of the present invention make it possible to formulate oral dosage forms that give rise to high and steady levels of the active compounds in vivo without the need to continuously administer the drugs by IV infusions which provides a tremendous advantage for the patient receiving the treatment.

Accordingly the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition for oral administration comprising a histone deacetylase HDAC inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent wherein the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of the HDAC inhibitor effective to inhibit a histone deacetylase HDAC in vivo for a period of at least 2 hours following administration. In a preferred embodiment the concentration of the HDAC inhibitor is effective to inhibit the HDAC for a period of at least 8 hours following administration. In another preferred embodiment the concentration of the HDAC inhibitor is effective to inhibit the HDAC for a period of at least 10 hours following administration. In another preferred embodiment the concentration of the HDAC inhibitor is effective to inhibit the HDAC for a period of at least 12 hours following administration.

In a preferred embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition for oral administration comprising SAHA or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent wherein the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of SAHA effective to inhibit a histone deacetylase HDAC in vivo for a period of at least 2 hours following administration. In a preferred embodiment the concentration of SAHA is effective to inhibit the HDAC for a period of at least 8 hours following administration. In another preferred embodiment the concentration of SAHA is effective to inhibit the HDAC for a period of at least 10 hours following administration. In another preferred embodiment the concentration of SAHA is effective to inhibit the HDAC for a period of at least 12 hours following administration.

The formulations of the present invention are useful for selectively inducing terminal differentiation cell growth arrest and or apoptosis of neoplastic cells and therefore aid in treatment of tumors in patients.

Accordingly the present invention also provides a method of selectively inducing terminal differentiation of neoplastic cells in a subject and thereby inhibiting proliferation of such cells in the subject comprising producing a mean plasma concentration of a HDAC inhibitor capable of inhibiting a histone deacetylase in vivo in a subject over a period of at least two hours following administration by administering to said subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising a HDAC inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.

Furthermore the present invention also provides a method of selectively inducing cell growth arrest of neoplastic cells in a subject and thereby inhibiting proliferation of such cells in the subject comprising producing a mean plasma concentration of a HDAC inhibitor capable of inhibiting a histone deacetylase in vivo in a subject over a period of at least two hours following administration by administering to said subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising a HDAC inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.

Furthermore the present invention also provides a method of selectively inducing apoptosis of neoplastic cells in a subject and thereby inhibiting proliferation of such cells in the subject comprising producing a mean plasma concentration of a HDAC inhibitor capable of inhibiting a histone deacetylase in vivo in a subject over a period of at least two hours following administration by administering to said subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising a HDAC inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.

Furthermore the present invention also provides a method of inducing differentiation of tumor cells in a subject having a tumor producing a mean plasma concentration of a HDAC inhibitor capable of inhibiting a histone deacetylase in vivo in a subject over a period of at least two hours following administration by administering to said subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising a HDAC inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.

Furthermore the present invention provides a method of inhibiting the activity of a histone deacetylase in a subject comprising producing a mean plasma concentration of a HDAC inhibitor capable of inhibiting a histone deacetylase in vivo in a subject over a period of at least two hours following administration by administering to said subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising a HDAC inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.

Furthermore the present invention also provides a method of selectively inducing terminal differentiation cell growth arrest and or apoptosis of neoplastic cells in a subject and thereby inhibiting proliferation of such cells in the subject comprising producing a mean plasma concentration of SAHA capable of inhibiting a histone deacetylase in vivo in a subject over a period of at least two hours following administration by administering to said subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising SAHA or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.

Furthermore the present invention also provides a method of selectively inducing terminal differentiation cell growth arrest and or apoptosis of neoplastic cells in a subject and thereby inhibiting proliferation of such cells in the subject comprising producing a mean plasma concentration of at least 10 nM of SAHA in vivo in a subject over a period of at least two hours following administration by administering to said subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising SAHA or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.

Furthermore the present invention also provides a method of inducing differentiation of tumor cells in a subject having a tumor comprising producing a mean plasma concentration of SAHA capable of inhibiting a histone deacetylase in vivo in a subject over a period of at least two hours following administration by administering to said subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising SAHA or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.

Furthermore the present invention also provides a method of inducing differentiation of tumor cells in a subject having a tumor comprising producing a mean plasma concentration of at least 10 nM of SAHA in vivo in a subject over a period of at least two hours following administration by administering to said subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising SAHA or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.

Furthermore the present invention provides a method of inhibiting the activity of a histone deacetylase in a subject comprising producing a mean plasma concentration of SAHA capable of inhibiting a histone deacetylase in vivo in a subject over a period of at least two hours following administration by administering to said subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising SAHA or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.

Furthermore the present invention provides a method of inhibiting the activity of a histone deacetylase in a subject comprising producing a mean plasma concentration of at least 10 nM of SAHA in vivo in a subject over a period of at least two hours following administration by administering to said subject an effective amount of a pharmaceutical composition comprising SAHA or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or diluent.

In another preferred embodiment the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of the HDAC inhibitor e.g. SAHA capable of inhibiting histone deacetylase over a period of at least 2 hours following administration which is preferably at a concentration of at least about 10 nM. In another embodiment the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of the HDAC inhibitor of at least about 10 nM over a period of at least 8 hours following administration. In yet another preferred embodiment the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of the HDAC inhibitor of at least about 10 nM over a period of at least 10 hours following administration. In yet another preferred embodiment the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of the HDAC inhibitor of at least about 10 nM over a period of at least 12 hours following administration. Non limiting examples of mean plasma concentrations are about 10 nM 25 nM 40 nM 45 nM 50 nM 100 nM 1 M 2 M 2.5 M 5 M 10 M 25 M 50 M 100 M and the like. It should be apparent to a person skilled in the art that these doses are in no way limiting the scope of this invention and that any mean plasma concentration which is capable of inhibiting a histone deacetylase is suitable.

In one preferred embodiment the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of the HDAC inhibitor e.g. SAHA capable of selectively inducing terminal differentiation cell growth arrest and or apoptosis of neoplastic cells or inducing differentiation of tumor cells in a tumor wherein the concentration is maintained over a period of at least 2 hours following administration which is preferably at a concentration of at least about 2.5 M. In another embodiment the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of the HDAC inhibitor of at least about 2.5 M over a period of at least 8 hours following administration. In yet another preferred embodiment the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of the HDAC inhibitor of at least about 2.5 M over a period of at least 10 hours following administration. In yet another preferred embodiment the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of the HDAC inhibitor of at least about 2.5 M over a period of at least 12 hours following administration. Non limiting examples of mean plasma concentrations are about 10 nM 25 nM 40 nM 45 nM 50 nM 100 nM 1 M 2 M 2.5 M 5 M 10 M 25 M 50 M 100 M and the like. It should be apparent to a person skilled in the art that these doses are in no way limiting the scope of this invention and that any mean plasma concentration which is capable of inducing terminal differentiation cell growth arrest and or apoptosis of neoplastic cells is suitable.

In another preferred embodiment the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of the HDAC inhibitor e.g. SAHA effective to induce differentiation of tumor cells in a subject having a tumor wherein the amount is maintained for a period of at least 2 hours following administration to the subject. In another preferred embodiment the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of the HDAC inhibitor effective to induce differentiation of tumor cells in a subject having a tumor wherein the amount is maintained for a period of at least 8 hours following administration to the subject. In another preferred embodiment the composition provides a mean plasma concentration of the HDAC inhibitor effective to induce differentiation of tumor cells in a subject having a tumor wherein the amount is maintained for a period of at least about 10 hours following administration to the subject. Non limiting examples of mean plasma concentrations are about 10 nM 25 nM 40 nM 45 nM 50 nM 100 nM 1 M 2 M 2.5 M 5 M 10 M 25 M 50 M 100 M and the like. It should be apparent to a person skilled in the art that these doses are in no way limiting the scope of this invention and that any mean plasma concentration which is capable of inducing differentiation of tumor cells in a tumor is suitable.

The methods of the present invention are suitable for practice in vitro and in vivo. If the methods are practiced in vitro contacting may be effected by incubating the cells with the compound. The concentration of the compound in contact with the cells should be from about 1 about nM to about 25 mM for example from about 10 nM to about 1 mM from about 40 nM to about 0.5 mM. Non limiting examples of specific doses are 10 nM 25 nM 40 nM 45 nM 50 nM 100 nM 1 M 2 M 2.5 M 5 M 10 M 25 M 50 M 100 M and the like. The concentration depends upon the individual compound and the state of the neoplastic cells.

Although the methods of the present invention can be practiced in vitro it is contemplated that the preferred embodiment for the methods of selectively inducing terminal differentiation cell growth arrest and or apoptosis of neoplastic cells will comprise contacting the cells in vivo i.e. by administering the compounds to a subject harboring neoplastic cells or tumor cells in need of treatment.

The methods of the present invention may also comprise initially administering to the subject an antitumor agent so as to render the neoplastic cells in the subject resistant to an antitumor agent and subsequently administering an effective amount of any of the compositions of the present invention effective to selectively induce terminal differentiation cell growth arrest and or apoptosis of such cells.

The antitumor agent may be one of numerous chemotherapy agents such as an alkylating agent an antimetabolite a hormonal agent an antibiotic colchicine a vinca alkaloid L asparaginase procarbazine hydroxyurea mitotane nitrosoureas or an imidazole carboxamide. Suitable agents are those agents that promote depolarization of tubulin. Preferably the antitumor agent is colchicine or a vinca alkaloid especially preferred are vinblastine and vincristine. In embodiments where the antitumor agent is vincristine the cells preferably are treated so that they are resistant to vincristine at a concentration of about 5 mg ml. The treating of the cells to render them resistant to an antitumor agent may be effected by contacting the cells with the agent for a period of at least 3 to 5 days. The contacting of the resulting cells with any of the compounds above is performed as described previously. In addition to the above chemotherapy agents the compounds may also be administered together with radiation therapy.

The present invention also provides a method of treating a patient having a tumor characterized by proliferation of neoplastic cells which comprises administering to the patient an effective amount of any of the compositions of the present invention above effective to selectively induce terminal differentiation of such neoplastic cells and thereby inhibit their proliferation.

The method of the present invention is intended for the treatment of human patients with tumors. However it is also likely that the method would be effective in the treatment of tumors in other mammals. The term tumor is intended to include any cancer caused by the proliferation of neoplastic cells such as lung cancer acute lymphoid myeloma Hodgkins lymphoma non Hodgkins lymphoma bladder melanoma renal carcinoma breast carcinoma prostate carcinoma ovarian carcinoma or colorectal carcinoma.

The administration of the pharmaceutical compositions can be carried out in unit dosages which may be administered orally once a day twice a day three times a day and the like. Currently preferred embodiments are once daily administration twice daily administration and three times daily administration.

Histone deacetylases HDACs as that term is used herein are enzymes that catalyze the removal of acetyl groups from lysine residues in the amino terminal tails of the nucleosomal core histones. As such HDACs together with histone acetyl transferases HATs regulate the acetylation status of histones. Histone acetylation affects gene expression and inhibitors of HDACs such as the hydroxamic acid based hybrid polar compound suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid SAHA induce growth arrest differentiation and or apoptosis of transformed cells in vitro and inhibit tumor growth in vivo. HDACs can be divided into three classes based on structural homology. Class I HDACs HDACs 1 2 3 and 8 bear similarity to the yeast RPD3 protein are located in the nucleus and are found in complexes associated with transcriptional co repressors. Class II HDACs HDACs 4 5 6 7 and 9 are similar to the yeast HDA1 protein and have both nuclear and cytoplasmic subcellular localization. Both Class I and II HDACs are inhibited by hydroxamic acid based HDAC inhibitors such as SAHA. Class III HDACs form a structurally distant class of NAD dependent enzymes that are related to the yeast SIR2 proteins and are not inhibited by hydroxamic acid based HDAC inhibitors.

Histone deacetylase inhibitors or HDAC inhibitors as that term is used herein are compounds that are capable of inhibiting the deacetylation of histones in vivo in vitro or both. As such HDAC inhibitors inhibit the activity of at least one histone deacetylase. As a result of inhibiting the deacetylation of at least one histone an increase in acetylated histone occurs and accumulation of acetylated histone is a suitable biological marker for assessing the activity of HDAC inhibitors. Therefore procedures that can assay for the accumulation of acetylated histones can be used to determine the HDAC inhibitory activity of compounds of interest. It is understood that compounds that can inhibit histone deacetylase activity can also bind to other substrates and as such can inhibit other biologically active molecules such as enzymes. It is also to be understood that the compounds of the present invention are capable of inhibiting any of the histone deacetylases set forth above or any other histone deacetylases.

For example in patients receiving HDAC inhibitors the accumulation of acetylated histones in peripheral mononuclear cells as well as in tissue treated with HDAC inhibitors can be determined against a suitable control.

HDAC inhibitory activity of a particular compound can be determined in vitro using for example an enzymatic assays which shows inhibition of at least one histone deacetylase. Further determination of the accumulation of acetylated histones in cells treated with a particular composition can be determinative of the HDAC inhibitory activity of a compound.

Assays for the accumulation of acetylated histones are well known in the literature. See for example Marks P. A. et al. J. Natl. Cancer Inst. 92 1210 1215 2000 Butler L. M. et al. Cancer Res. 60 5165 5170 2000 Richon V. M. et al. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 95 3003 3007 1998 and Yoshida M. et al. J. Biol. Chem. 265 17174 17179 1990.

For example an enzymatic assay to determine the activity of a histone deacetylase inhibitor compound can be conducted as follows. Briefly the effect of an HDAC inhibitor compound on affinity purified human epitope tagged Flag HDAC1 can be assayed by incubating the enzyme preparation in the absence of substrate on ice for about 20 minutes with the indicated amount of inhibitor compound. Substrate H acetyl labelled murine erythroleukemia cell derived histone can be added and the sample can be incubated for 20 minutes at 37 C. in a total volume of 30 L. The reaction can then be stopped and released acetate can be extracted and the amount of radioactivity release determined by scintillation counting. An alternative assay useful for determining the activity of a histone deacetylase inhibitor compound is the HDAC Fluorescent Activity Assay Drug Discovery Kit AK 500 available from BIOMOL Research Laboratories Inc. Plymouth Meeting Pa.

In vivo studies can be conducted as follows. Animals for example mice can be injected intraperitoneally with an HDAC inhibitor compound. Selected tissues for example brain spleen liver etc can be isolated at predetermined times post administration. Histones can be isolated from tissues essentially as described by Yoshida et al. J. Biol. Chem. 265 17174 17179 1990. Equal amounts of histones about 1 g can be electrophoresed on 15 SDS polyacrylamide gels and can be transferred to Hybond P filters available from Amersham . Filters can be blocked with 3 milk and can be probed with a rabbit purified polyclonal anti acetylated histone H4 antibody Ac H4 and anti acetylated histone H3 antibody Ac H3 Upstate Biotechnology Inc. . Levels of acetylated histone can be visualized using a horseradish peroxidase conjugated goat anti rabbit antibody 1 5000 and the SuperSignal chemiluminescent substrate Pierce . As a loading control for the histone protein parallel gels can be run and stained with Coomassie Blue CB .

In addition hydroxamic acid based HDAC inhibitors have been shown to up regulate the expression of the p21gene. The p21protein is induced within 2 hours of culture with HDAC inhibitors in a variety of transformed cells using standard methods. The induction of the p21gene is associated with accumulation of acetylated histones in the chromatin region of this gene. Induction of p21can therefore be recognized as involved in the G1 cell cycle arrest caused by HDAC inhibitors in transformed cells.

Typically HDAC inhibitors fall into five general classes 1 hydroxamic acid derivatives 2 Short Chain Fatty Acids SCFAs 3 cyclic tetrapeptides 4 benzamides and 5 electrophilic ketones.

Thus the present invention includes within its broad scope compositions comprising HDAC inhibitors which are 1 hydroxamic acid derivatives 2 Short Chain Fatty Acids SCFAs 3 cyclic tetrapeptides 4 benzamides 5 electrophilic ketones and or any other class of compounds capable of inhibiting histone deacetylases for use in inhibiting histone deacetylase inducing terminal differentiation in neoplastic cells and or inducing differentiation of tumor cells in a tumor.

Preferred hydroxamic acid based HDAC inhibitors are suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid SAHA m carboxycinnamic acid bishydroxamate CBHA and pyroxamide. SAHA has been shown to bind directly in the catalytic pocket of the histone deacetylase enzyme. SAHA induces cell cycle arrest differentiation and or apoptosis of transformed cells in culture and inhibits tumor growth in rodents. SAHA is effective at inducing these effects in both solid tumors and hematological cancers. It has been shown that SAHA is effective at inhibiting tumor growth in animals with no toxicity to the animal. The SAHA induced inhibition of tumor growth is associated with an accumulation of acetylated histones in the tumor. SAHA is effective at inhibiting the development and continued growth of carcinogen induced N methylnitrosourea mammary tumors in rats. SAHA was administered to the rats in their diet over the 130 days of the study. Thus SAHA is a nontoxic orally active antitumor agent whose mechanism of action involves the inhibition of histone deacetylase activity.

Preferred HDAC inhibitors are those disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 369 108 5 932 616 5 700 811 6 087 367 and 6 511 990 issued to some of the present inventors disclose compounds the entire contents of which are incorporated herein by reference non limiting examples of which are set forth below 

Thus in one embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound represented by the structure of formula 1 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In a particular embodiment of Formula 1 Rand Rare the same and are a substituted or unsubstituted thiazoleamino group and n is an integer from about 4 to about 8.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound represented by the structure of formula 2 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In a particular embodiment of formula 2 each of Rand Rare independently the same as or different from each other and are a hydrogen atom a hydroxyl group a substituted or unsubstituted branched or unbranched alkyl alkenyl cycloalkyl aryl alkyloxy aryloxy arylalkyloxy or pyridine group or Rand Rbond together to form a piperidine group Ris a hydroxylamino hydroxyl amino alkylamino or alkyloxy group n is an integer from 5 to 7 and R N Rand Rare different.

In another particular embodiment of Formula 2 n is 6. In yet another embodiment of Formula II Ris a hydrogen atom Ris a substituted or unsubstituted phenyl and n is 6. In yet another embodiment of Formula II Ris a hydrogen atom Ris a substituted phenyl and n is 6 wherein the phenyl substituent is selected from the group consisting of a methyl cyano nitro trifluoromethyl amino aminocarbonyl methylcyano chloro fluoro bromo iodo 2 3 difluoro 2 4 difluoro 2 5 difluoro 3 4 difluoro 3 5 difluoro 2 6 difluoro 1 2 3 trifluoro 2 3 6 trifluoro 2 4 6 trifluoro 3 4 5 trifluoro 2 3 5 6 tetrafluoro 2 3 4 5 6 pentafluoro azido hexyl t butyl phenyl carboxyl hydroxyl methoxy phenyloxy benzyloxy phenylaminooxy phenylaminocarbonyl methoxycarbonyl methylaminocarbonyl dimethylamino dimethylamino carbonyl or hydroxylaminocarbonyl group.

In another embodiment of formula 2 n is 6 Ris a hydrogen atom and Ris a cyclohexyl group. In another embodiment of formula 2 n is 6 Ris a hydrogen atom and Ris a methoxy group. In another embodiment of formula 2 n is 6 and Rand Rbond together to form a piperidine group. In another embodiment of formula 2 n is 6 Ris a hydrogen atom and Ris a benzyloxy group. In another embodiment of formula 2 Ris a hydrogen atom and Ris a pyridine group. In another embodiment of formula 2 Ris a hydrogen atom and Ris a pyridine group. In another embodiment of formula 2 Ris a hydrogen atom and Ris an pyridine group. In another embodiment of formula 2 n is 6 and Rand Rare both methyl groups. In another embodiment of formula II n is 6 Ris a methyl group and Ris a phenyl group.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound represented by the structure of formula 3 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In a preferred embodiment of formula 3 n is 6. In accordance with this embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising SAHA 4 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. SAHA can be represented by the following structural formula.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound represented by the structure of formula 5 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound represented by the structure of formula 6 pyroxamide or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound represented by the structure of formula 7 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound represented by the structure of formula 8 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound represented by the structure of formula 9 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound represented by the structure of formula 10 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound represented by the structure of formula 11 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound represented by the structure of formula 12 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In a particular embodiment the HDAC inhibitor is a compound of Formula XI wherein X Y and R are each hydroxyl and both m and n are 5.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound represented by the structure of formula 13 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In one particular embodiment of formula 13 each of X and Y is a hydroxyl group and each of Rand Ris a methyl group. In another particular embodiment of formula 13 each of X and Y is a hydroxyl group each of Rand Ris a methyl group each of n and o is 6 and m is 2.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound represented by the structure of formula 14 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound represented by the structure of formula 15 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In one particular embodiment of formula 1 each of X and Y is a hydroxyl group and each of m and n is 5.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound represented by the structure of formula 16 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound represented by the structure of formula 17 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In one particular embodiment of formula 17 each of X and Y is a hydroxylamino group Ris a methyl group Ris a hydrogen atom and each of m and n is 2. In another particular embodiment of formula 17 each of X and Y is a hydroxylamino group Ris a carbonylhydroxylamino group Ris a hydrogen atom and each of m and n is 5. In another particular embodiment of formula 17 each of X and Y is a hydroxylamino group each of Rand Ris a fluoro group and each of m and n is 2.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound represented by the structure of formula 18 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound represented by the structure of formula 19 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound represented by the structure of formula 20 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In one particular embodiment of formula XVIII Ris a hydroxylamino group. In another particular embodiment of formula 21 Ris a hydroxylamino group.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound represented by the structure of formula 22 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound represented by the structure of formula 24 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound represented by the structure of formula 25 CBHA or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound represented by the structure of formula 26 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound represented by the structure of formula 27 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In one particular embodiment of formula 27 R is a substituted phenyl group. In another particular embodiment of formula 27 R is a substituted phenyl group where the substituent is selected from the group consisting of methyl cyano nitro thio trifluoromethyl amino aminocarbonyl methylcyano chloro fluoro bromo iodo 2 3 difluoro 2 4 difluoro 2 5 difluoro 3 4 difluoro 3 5 difluoro 2 6 difluoro 1 2 3 trifluoro 2 3 6 trifluoro 2 4 6 trifluoro 3 4 5 trifluoro 2 3 5 6 tetrafluoro 2 3 4 5 6 pentafluoro azido hexyl t butyl phenyl carboxyl hydroxyl methyloxy phenyloxy benzyloxy phenylaminooxy phenylaminocarbonyl methyloxycarbonyl methylaminocarbonyl dimethylamino dimethylaminocarbonyl or hydroxylaminocarbonyl group.

In another particular embodiment of formula 27 R is a substituted or unsubstituted 2 pyridine 3 pyridine or 4 pyridine and n is an integer from about 4 to about 8.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound represented by the structure of formula 28 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In a particular embodiment of formula 28 R is a substituted phenyl group. In another particular embodiment of formula 28 R is a substituted phenyl group where the substituent is selected from the group consisting of methyl cyano nitro thio trifluoromethyl amino aminocarbonyl methylcyano chloro fluoro bromo iodo 2 3 difluoro 2 4 difluoro 2 5 difluoro 3 4 difluoro 3 5 difluoro 2 6 difluoro 1 2 3 trifluoro 2 3 6 trifluoro 2 4 6 trifluoro 3 4 5 trifluoro 2 3 5 6 tetrafluoro 2 3 4 5 6 pentafluoro azido hexyl t butyl phenyl carboxyl hydroxyl methyloxy phenyloxy benzyloxy phenylaminooxy phenylaminocarbonyl methyloxycarbonyl methylaminocarbonyl dimethylamino dimethylaminocarbonyl or hydroxylaminocarbonyl group.

In another particular embodiment of formula 28 R is phenyl and n is 5. In another embodiment n is 5 and R is 3 chlorophenyl.

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound represented by the structure of formula 29 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In certain embodiments of formula 29 Ris NH Rwherein Ris substituted or unsubstituted aryl e.g. phenyl arylalkyl e.g. benzyl naphthyl cycloalkyl cycloalkylamino pyridineamino piperidino 9 purine 6 amino thiazoleamino hydroxyl branched or unbranched alkyl alkenyl alkyloxy aryloxy arylalkyloxy pyridyl quinolinyl or isoquinolinyl

In another embodiment the present invention provides a pharmaceutical composition comprising a compound represented by the structure of formula 30 or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient.

In further particular embodiment compounds having a more specific structure within the scope of compounds 29 or 30 are 

Other examples of such compounds and other HDAC inhibitors can be found in U.S. Pat. No. 5 369 108 issued on Nov. 29 1994 U.S. Pat. No. 5 700 811 issued on Dec. 23 1997 U.S. Pat. No. 5 773 474 issued on Jun. 30 1998 U.S. Pat. No. 5 932 616 issued on Aug. 3 1999 and U.S. Pat. No. 6 511 990 issued Jan. 28 2003 all to Breslow et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 055 608 issued on Oct. 8 1991 U.S. Pat. No. 5 175 191 issued on Dec. 29 1992 and U.S. Pat. No. 5 608 108 issued on Mar. 4 1997 all to Marks et al. as well as Yoshida M. et al. Bioassays 17 423 430 1995 Saito A. et al. PNAS USA 96 4592 4597 1999 Furamai R. et al. PNAS USA 98 1 87 92 2001 Komatsu Y. et al. Cancer Res. 61 11 4459 4466 2001 Su G. H. et al. Cancer Res. 60 3137 3142 2000 Lee B. I. et al. Cancer Res. 61 3 931 934 Suzuki T. et al. J. Med. Chem. 42 15 3001 3003 1999 published PCT Application WO 01 18171 published on Mar. 15 2001 to Sloan Kettering Institute for Cancer Research and The Trustees of Columbia University published PCT Application WO02 246144 to Hoffmann La Roche published PCT Application WO02 22577 to Novartis published PCT Application WO02 30879 to Prolifix published PCT Applications WO 01 38322 published May 31 2001 WO 01 70675 published on Sep. 27 2001 and WO 00 71703 published on Nov. 30 2000 all to Methylgene Inc. published PCT Application WO 00 21979 published on Oct. 8 1999 to Fujisawa Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd. published PCT Application WO 98 40080 published on Mar. 11 1998 to Beacon Laboratories L. L. C. and Curtin M. Current patent status of histone deacetylase inhibitors Expert Opin. Ther. Patents 2002 12 9 1375 1384 and references cited therein .

SAHA or any of the other HDACs can be synthesized according to the methods outlined in the Experimental Details Section or according to the method set forth in U.S. Pat. Nos. 5 369 108 5 700 811 5 932 616 and 6 511 990 the contents of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety or according to any other method known to a person skilled in the art.

This invention in addition to the above listed compounds is intended to encompass the use of homologs and analogs of such compounds. In this context homologs are molecules having substantial structural similarities to the above described compounds and analogs are molecules having substantial biological similarities regardless of structural similarities.

The invention also encompasses pharmaceutical compositions comprising pharmaceutically acceptable salts of the HDAC inhibitors with organic and inorganic acids for example acid addition salts which may for example be hydrochloric acid sulphuric acid methanesulphonic acid fumaric acid maleic acid succinic acid acetic acid benzoic acid oxalic acid citric acid tartaric acid carbonic acid phosphoric acid and the like. Pharmaceutically acceptable salts can also be prepared from by treatment with inorganic bases for example sodium potassium ammonium calcium or ferric hydroxides and such organic bases as isopropylamine trimethylamine 2 ethylamino ethanol histidine procaine and the like.

The invention also encompasses pharmaceutical compositions comprising hydrates of the HDAC inhibitors. The term hydrate includes but is not limited to hemihydrate monohydrate dihydrate trihydrate and the like.

This invention also encompasses pharmaceutical compositions comprising any solid or liquid physical form of SAHA or any of the other HDAC inhibitors. For example The HDAC inhibitors can be in a crystalline form in amorphous form and have any particle size. The HDAC inhibitor particles may be micronized or may be agglomerated particulate granules powders oils oily suspensions or any other form of solid or liquid physical form.

The compounds of the invention and derivatives fragments analogs homologs pharmaceutically acceptable salts or hydrate thereof can be incorporated into pharmaceutical compositions suitable for oral administration together with a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier or excipient. Such compositions typically comprise a therapeutically effective amount of any of the compounds above and a pharmaceutically acceptable carrier. Preferably the effective amount is an amount effective to selectively induce terminal differentiation of suitable neoplastic cells and less than an amount which causes toxicity in a patient.

Any inert excipient that is commonly used as a carrier or diluent may be used in the formulations of the present invention such as for example a gum a starch a sugar a cellulosic material an acrylate or mixtures thereof. A preferred diluent is microcrystalline cellulose. The compositions may further comprise a disintegrating agent e.g. croscarmellose sodium and a lubricant e.g. magnesium stearate and in addition may comprise one or more additives selected from a binder a buffer a protease inhibitor a surfactant a solubilizing agent a plasticizer an emulsifier a stabilizing agent a viscosity increasing agent a sweetener a film forming agent or any combination thereof. Furthermore the compositions of the present invention may be in the form of controlled release or immediate release formulations.

One embodiment is a pharmaceutical composition for oral administration comprising a HDAC inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof microcrystalline cellulose croscarmellose sodium and magnesium stearate. Another embodiment has SAHA as the HDAC inhibitor. Another embodiment comprises 50 70 by weight of a HDAC inhibitor or a pharmaceutically acceptable salt or hydrate thereof 20 40 by weight microcrystalline cellulose 5 15 by weight croscarmellose sodium and 0.1 5 by weight magnesium stearate. Another embodiment comprises about 50 200 mg of a HDAC inhibitor.

In one embodiment the pharmaceutical compositions are administered orally and are thus formulated in a form suitable for oral administration i.e. as a solid or a liquid preparation. Suitable solid oral formulations include tablets capsules pills granules pellets and the like. Suitable liquid oral formulations include solutions suspensions dispersions emulsions oils and the like. In one embodiment of the present invention the composition is formulated in a capsule. In accordance with this embodiment the compositions of the present invention comprise in addition to the HDAC inhibitor active compound and the inert carrier or diluent a hard gelatin capsule.

As used herein pharmaceutically acceptable carrier is intended to include any and all solvents dispersion media coatings antibacterial and antifungal agents isotonic and absorption delaying agents and the like compatible with pharmaceutical administration such as sterile pyrogen free water. Suitable carriers are described in the most recent edition of Remington s Pharmaceutical Sciences a standard reference text in the field which is incorporated herein by reference. Preferred examples of such carriers or diluents include but are not limited to water saline finger s solutions dextrose solution and 5 human serum albumin. Liposomes and non aqueous vehicles such as fixed oils may also be used. The use of such media and agents for pharmaceutically active substances is well known in the art. Except insofar as any conventional media or agent is incompatible with the active compound use thereof in the compositions is contemplated. Supplementary active compounds can also be incorporated into the compositions.

Solid carriers diluents include but are not limited to a gum a starch e.g. corn starch pregelatinized starch a sugar e.g. lactose mannitol sucrose dextrose a cellulosic material e.g. microcrystalline cellulose an acrylate e.g. polymethylacrylate calcium carbonate magnesium oxide talc or mixtures thereof.

For liquid formulations pharmaceutically acceptable carriers may be aqueous or non aqueous solutions suspensions emulsions or oils. Examples of non aqueous solvents are propylene glycol polyethylene glycol and injectable organic esters such as ethyl oleate. Aqueous carriers include water alcoholic aqueous solutions emulsions or suspensions including saline and buffered media. Examples of oils are those of petroleum animal vegetable or synthetic origin for example peanut oil soybean oil mineral oil olive oil sunflower oil and fish liver oil. Solutions or suspensions can also include the following components a sterile diluent such as water for injection saline solution fixed oils polyethylene glycols glycerine propylene glycol or other synthetic solvents antibacterial agents such as benzyl alcohol or methyl parabens antioxidants such as ascorbic acid or sodium bisulfite chelating agents such as ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid EDTA buffers such as acetates citrates or phosphates and agents for the adjustment of tonicity such as sodium chloride or dextrose. The pH can be adjusted with acids or bases such as hydrochloric acid or sodium hydroxide.

In addition the compositions may further comprise binders e.g. acacia cornstarch gelatin carbomer ethyl cellulose guar gum hydroxypropyl cellulose hydroxypropyl methyl cellulose povidone disintegrating agents e.g. cornstarch potato starch alginic acid silicon dioxide croscarmellose sodium crospovidone guar gum sodium starch glycolate Primogel buffers e.g. tris HCl. acetate phosphate of various pH and ionic strength additives such as albumin or gelatin to prevent absorption to surfaces detergents e.g. Tween 20 Tween 80 Pluronic F68 bile acid salts protease inhibitors surfactants e.g. sodium lauryl sulfate permeation enhancers solubilizing agents e.g. glycerol polyethylene glycerol a glidant e.g. colloidal silicon dioxide anti oxidants e.g. ascorbic acid sodium metabisulfite butylated hydroxyanisole stabilizers e.g. hydroxypropyl cellulose hyroxypropylmethyl cellulose viscosity increasing agents e.g. carbomer colloidal silicon dioxide ethyl cellulose guar gum sweeteners e.g. sucrose aspartame citric acid flavoring agents e.g. peppermint methyl salicylate or orange flavoring preservatives e.g. Thimerosal benzyl alcohol parabens lubricants e.g. stearic acid magnesium stearate polyethylene glycol sodium lauryl sulfate flow aids e.g. colloidal silicon dioxide plasticizers e.g. diethyl phthalate triethyl citrate emulsifiers e.g. carbomer hydroxypropyl cellulose sodium lauryl sulfate polymer coatings e.g. poloxamers or poloxamines coating and film forming agents e.g. ethyl cellulose acrylates polymethacrylates and or adjuvants.

In one embodiment the active compounds are prepared with carriers that will protect the compound against rapid elimination from the body such as a controlled release formulation including implants and microencapsulated delivery systems. Biodegradable biocompatible polymers can be used such as ethylene vinyl acetate polyanhydrides polyglycolic acid collagen polyorthoesters and polylactic acid. Methods for preparation of such formulations will be apparent to those skilled in the art. The materials can also be obtained commercially from Alza Corporation and Nova Pharmaceuticals Inc. Liposomal suspensions including liposomes targeted to infected cells with monoclonal antibodies to viral antigens can also be used as pharmaceutically acceptable carriers. These can be prepared according to methods known to those skilled in the art for example as described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 522 811.

It is especially advantageous to formulate oral compositions in dosage unit form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. Dosage unit form as used herein refers to physically discrete units suited as unitary dosages for the subject to be treated each unit containing a predetermined quantity of active compound calculated to produce the desired therapeutic effect in association with the required pharmaceutical carrier. The specification for the dosage unit forms of the invention are dictated by and directly dependent on the unique characteristics of the active compound and the particular therapeutic effect to be achieved and the limitations inherent in the art of compounding such an active compound for the treatment of individuals.

The pharmaceutical compositions can be included in a container pack or dispenser together with instructions for administration.

The daily administration is then repeated continuously for a period of several days to several years. Oral treatment may continue for between one week and the life of the patient. Preferably the administration takes place for five consecutive days after which time the patient can be evaluated to determine if further administration is required. The administration can be continuous or intermittent i.e. treatment for a number of consecutive days followed by a rest period.

The compounds of the present invention may be administered intravenously on the first day of treatment with oral administration on the second day and all consecutive days thereafter.

The compounds of the present invention may be administered for the purpose of preventing disease progression or stabilizing tumor growth.

The preparation of pharmaceutical compositions that contain an active component is well understood in the art for example by mixing granulating or tablet forming processes. The active therapeutic ingredient is often mixed with excipients that are pharmaceutically acceptable and compatible with the active ingredient. For oral administration the active agents are mixed with additives customary for this purpose such as vehicles stabilizers or inert diluents and converted by customary methods into suitable forms for administration such as tablets coated tablets hard or soft gelatin capsules aqueous alcoholic or oily solutions and the like as detailed above.

The compounds of the present invention may be administered at orally at a total daily dose of between 25 to 4000 mg m for example about 25 to 1000 mg 50 1000 mg 100 mg 200 mg 300 mg 400 mg 600 mg 800 mg 1000 mg and the like. Typically the compound is administered as a single dose when administering up to 400 mg to the patient. For higher total dosages i.e. greater than 400 mg the total is split into multiple dosages for example twice daily three times daily or the like preferably spread out over equal periods of time during the day. For example two doses e.g. 500 mg each can be administered 12 hours apart to achieve a total dosage of 1000 mg in a day.

In one currently preferred embodiment SAHA or any of the HDAC inhibitors are administered to the patient at a total daily dosage of 200 mg. In another currently preferred embodiment SAHA or any of the HDAC inhibitors are administered to the patient at a total daily dosage of 400 mg. In another currently preferred embodiment SAHA or any of the HDAC inhibitors are administered to the patient at a total daily dosage of 600 mg.

The amount of the compound administered to the patient is less than an amount that would cause toxicity in the patient. In the certain embodiments the amount of the compound that is administered to the patient is less than the amount that causes a concentration of the compound in the patient s plasma to equal or exceed the toxic level of the compound. Preferably the concentration of the compound in the patient s plasma is maintained at about 10 nM. In another embodiment the concentration of the compound in the patient s plasma is maintained at about 25 nM. In another embodiment the concentration of the compound in the patient s plasma is maintained at about 50 nM. In another embodiment the concentration of the compound in the patient s plasma is maintained at about 100 nM. In another embodiment the concentration of the compound in the patient s plasma is maintained at about 500 nM. In another embodiment the concentration of the compound in the patient s plasma is maintained at about 1000 nM. In another embodiment the concentration of the compound in the patient s plasma is maintained at about 2500 nM. In another embodiment the concentration of the compound in the patient s plasma is maintained at about 5000 nM. It has been found with HMBA that administration of the compound in an amount from about 5 gm m day to about 30 gm m day particularly about 20 gm m day is effective without producing toxicity in the patient. The optimal amount of the compound that should be administered to the patient in the practice of the present invention will depend on the particular compound used and the type of cancer being treated.

In a currently preferred embodiment of the present invention the pharmaceutical composition comprises a histone deacetylase HDAC inhibitor microcrystalline cellulose as a carrier or diluent croscarmellose sodium as a disintegrant and magnesium stearate as a lubricant. In a particularly preferred embodiment the HDAC inhibitor is suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid SAHA .

The percentage of the active ingredient and various excipients in the formulations may vary. For example the composition may comprise between 20 and 90 preferably between 50 70 by weight of the histone deacetylase HDAC . Furthermore the composition may comprise between 10 and 70 preferably between 20 40 by weight microcrystalline cellulose as a carrier or diluent. Furthermore the composition may comprise between 1 and 30 preferably 5 15 by weight croscarmellose sodium as a disintegrant. Furthermore the composition may comprise between 0.1 5 by weight magnesium stearate as a lubricant. In another preferred embodiment the composition comprises about 50 200 mg of the HDAC inhibitor e.g. 50 mg 100 mg and 200 mg for the HDAC inhibitor for example SAHA . In a particularly preferred embodiment the composition is in the form of a gelatin capsule.

A currently preferred embodiment of the invention is a solid formulation of SAHA with microcrystalline cellulose NF Avicel Ph 101 sodium croscarmellose NF AC Di Sol and magnesium stearate NF contained in a gelatin capsule. A further preferred embodiment is 200 mg of solid SAHA with 89.5 mg of microcrystalline cellulose 9 mg of sodium croscarmellose and 1.5 mg of magnesium stearate contained in a gelatin capsule.

It should be apparent to a person skilled in the art that the pharmaceutical compositions of the present invention are not only useful for inhibiting the proliferation of neoplastic cells induction and treatment of cancer and that these compositions are useful in treating a wide range of diseases for which HDAC inhibitors have been found useful.

For example HDAC inhibitors and in particular SAHA have been found to be useful in the treatment of a variety of acute and chronic inflammatory diseases autoimmune diseases allergic diseases diseases associated with oxidative stress and diseases characterized by cellular hyperproliferation. Non limiting examples are inflammatory conditions of a joint including and rheumatoid arthritis RA and psoriatic arthritis inflammatory bowel diseases such as Crohn s disease and ulcerative colitis spondyloarthropathies scleroderma psoriasis including T cell mediated psoriasis and inflammatory dermatoses such an dermatitis eczema atopic dermatitis allergic contact dermatitis urticaria vasculitis e.g. necrotizing cutaneous and hypersensitivity vasculitis eosinphilic myositis eosinophilic fasciitis cancers with leukocyte infiltration of the skin or organs ischemic injury including cerebral ischemia e.g. brain injury as a result of trauma epilepsy hemorrhage or stroke each of which may lead to neurodegeneration HIV heart failure chronic acute or malignant liver disease autoimmune thyroiditis systemic lupus erythematosus Sjorgren s syndrome lung diseases e.g. ARDS acute pancreatitis amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ALS Alzheimer s disease cachexia anorexia asthma atherosclerosis chronic fatigue syndrome fever diabetes e.g. insulin diabetes or juvenile onset diabetes glomerulonephritis graft versus host rejection e.g. in transplantation hemohorragic shock hyperalgesia inflammatory bowel disease multiple sclerosis myopathies e.g. muscle protein metabolism esp. in sepsis osteoporosis Parkinson s disease pain pre term labor psoriasis reperfusion injury cytokine induced toxicity e.g. septic shock endotoxic shock side effects from radiation therapy temporal mandibular joint disease tumor metastasis or an inflammatory condition resulting from strain sprain cartilage damage trauma such as burn orthopedic surgery infection or other disease processes. Allergic diseases and conditions include but are not limited to respiratory allergic diseases such as asthma allergic rhinitis hypersensitivity lung diseases hypersensitivity pneumonitis eosinophilic pneumonias e.g. Loeffler s syndrome chronic eosinophilic pneumonia delayed type hypersentitivity interstitial lung diseases ILD e.g. idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis or ILD associated with rheumatoid arthritis systemic lupus erythematosus ankylosing spondylitis systemic sclerosis Sjogren s syndrome polymyositis or dermatomyositis systemic anaphylaxis or hypersensitivity responses drug allergies e.g. to penicillin cephalosporins insect sting allergies and the like.

For example HDAC inhibitors and in particular SAHA have been found to be useful in the treatment of a variety of neurodegenerative diseases a non exhaustive list of which is 

The invention is illustrated in the examples in the Experimental Details Section which follows. This section is set forth to aid in an understanding of the invention but is not intended to and should not be construed to limit in any way the invention as set forth in the claims which follow thereafter.

SAHA can be synthesized according to the method outlined below or according to the method set forth in U.S. Pat. No. 5 369 108 the contents of which are incorporated by reference in their entirety or according to any other method.

In a 22 L flask was placed 3 500 g 20.09 moles of suberic acid and the acid melted with heat. The temperature was raised to 175 C. and then 2 040 g 21.92 moles of aniline was added. The temperature was raised to 190 C. and held at that temperature for 20 minutes. The melt was poured into a Nalgene tank that contained 4 017 g of potassium hydroxide dissolved in 50 L of water. The mixture was stirred for 20 minutes following the addition of the melt. The reaction was repeated at the same scale and the second melt was poured into the same solution of potassium hydroxide. After the mixture was thoroughly stirred the stirrer was turned off and the mixture was allowed to settle. The mixture was then filtered through a pad of Celite 4 200 g the product was filtered to remove the neutral by product from attack by aniline on both ends of suberic acid . The filtrate contained the salt of the product and also the salt of unreacted suberic acid. The mixture was allowed to settle because the filtration was very slow taking several days. . The filtrate was acidified using 5 L of concentrated hydrochloric acid the mixture was stirred for one hour and then allowed to settle overnight. The product was collected by filtration and washed on the funnel with deionized water 4 5 L . The wet filter cake was placed in a 72 L flask with 44 L of deionized water the mixture heated to 50 C. and the solid isolated by a hot filtration the desired product was contaminated with suberic acid which is has a much greater solubility in hot water. Several hot triturations were done to remove suberic acid. The product was checked by NMR DDMSO to monitor the removal of suberic acid . The hot trituration was repeated with 44 L of water at 50 C. The product was again isolated by filtration and rinsed with 4 L of hot water. It was dried over the weekend in a vacuum oven at 65 C. using a Nash pump as the vacuum source the Nash pump is a liquid ring pump water and pulls a vacuum of about 29 inch of mercury. An intermittent argon purge was used to help carry off water 4 182.8 g of suberanilic acid was obtained.

The product still contained a small amount of suberic acid therefore the hot trituration was done portionwise at 65 C. using about 300 g of product at a time. Each portion was filtered and rinsed thoroughly with additional hot water a total of about 6 L . This was repeated to purify the entire batch. This completely removed suberic acid from the product. The solid product was combined in a flask and stirred with 6 L of methanol water 1 2 and then isolated by filtration and air dried on the filter over the week end. It was placed in trays and dried in a vacuum oven at 65 C. for 45 hours using the Nash pump and an argon bleed. The final product has a weight of 3 278.4 g 32.7 yield .

To a 50 L flask fitted with a mechanical stirrer and condenser was placed 3 229 g of suberanilic acid from the previous step 20 L of methanol and 398.7 g of Dowex 50WX2 400 resin. The mixture was heated to reflux and held at reflux for 18 hours. The mixture was filtered to remove the resin beads and the filtrate was taken to a residue on a rotary evaporator.

The residue from the rotary evaporator was transferred into a 50 L flask fitted with a condenser and mechanical stirrer. To the flask was added 6 L of methanol and the mixture heated to give a solution. Then 2 L of deionized water was added and the heat turned off. The stirred mixture was allowed to cool and then the flask was placed in an ice bath and the mixture cooled. The solid product was isolated by filtration and the filter cake was rinsed with 4 L of cold methanol water 1 1 . The product was dried at 45 C. in a vacuum oven using a Nash pump for a total of 64 hours to give 2 850.2 g 84 yield of methyl suberanilate CSL Lot 98 794 92 3 1.

To a 50 L flask with a mechanical stirrer thermocouple and inlet for inert atmosphere was added 1 451.9 g of hydroxylamine hydrochloride 19 L of anhydrous methanol and a 3.93 L of a 30 sodium methoxide solution in methanol. The flask was then charged with 2 748.0 g of methyl suberanilate followed by 1.9 L of a 30 sodium methoxide solution in methanol. The mixture was allowed to stir for 16 hr and 10 minutes. Approximately one half of the reaction mixture was transferred from the reaction flask flask 1 to a 50 L flask flask 2 fitted with a mechanical stirrer. Then 27 L of deionized water was added to flask 1 and the mixture was stirrer for 10 minutes. The pH was taken using a pH meter the pH was 11.56. The pH of the mixture was adjusted to 12.02 by the addition of 100 ml of the 30 sodium methoxide solution in methanol this gave a clear solution the reaction mixture at this time contained a small amount of solid. The pH was adjusted to give a clear solution from which the precipitation the product would be precipitated . The reaction mixture in flask 2 was diluted in the same manner 27 L of deionized water was added and the pH adjusted by the addition of 100 ml of a 30 sodium methoxide solution to the mixture to give a pH of 12.01 clear solution .

The reaction mixture in each flask was acidified by the addition of glacial acetic acid to precipitate the product. Flask 1 had a final pH of 8.98 and Flask 2 had a final pH of 8.70. The product from both flasks was isolated by filtration using a Buchner funnel and filter cloth. The filter cake was washed with 15 L of deionized water and the funnel was covered and the product was partially dried on the funnel under vacuum for 15.5 hr. The product was removed and placed into five glass trays. The trays were placed in a vacuum oven and the product was dried to constant weight. The first drying period was for 22 hours at 60 C. using a Nash pump as the vacuum source with an argon bleed. The trays were removed from the vacuum oven and weighed. The trays were returned to the oven and the product dried for an additional 4 hr and 10 minutes using an oil pump as the vacuum source and with no argon bleed. The material was packaged in double 4 mill polyethylene bags and placed in a plastic outer container. The final weight after sampling was 2633.4 g 95.6 .

The crude SAHA was recrystallized from methanol water. A 50 L flask with a mechanical stirrer thermocouple condenser and inlet for inert atmosphere was charged with the crude SAHA to be crystallized 2 525.7 g followed by 2 625 ml of deionized water and 15 755 ml of methanol. The material was heated to reflux to give a solution. Then 5 250 ml of deionized water was added to the reaction mixture. The heat was turned off and the mixture was allowed to cool. When the mixture had cooled sufficiently so that the flask could be safely handled 28 C. the flask was removed from the heating mantle and placed in a tub for use as a cooling bath. Ice water was added to the tub to cool the mixture to 5 C. The mixture was held below that temperature for 2 hours. The product was isolated by filtration and the filter cake washed with 1.5 L of cold methanol water 2 1 . The funnel was covered and the product was partially dried under vacuum for 1.75 hr. The product was removed from the funnel and placed in 6 glass trays. The trays were placed in a vacuum oven and the product was dried for 64.75 hr at 60 C. using a Nash pump as the vacuum source and using an argon bleed. The trays were removed for weighing and then returned to the oven and dried for an additional 4 hours at 60 C. to give a constant weight. The vacuum source for the second drying period was a oil pump and no argon bleed was used. The material was packaged in double 4 mill polyethylene bags and placed in a plastic outer container. The final weight after sampling was 2 540.9 g 92.5 .

Background Treatment with hybrid polar cellular differentiation agents has resulted in the inhibition of growth of human solid tumor derived cell lines and xenografts. The effect is mediated in part by inhibition of histone deacetylase. SAHA is a potent histone deacetylase inhibitor that has been shown to have the ability to induce tumor cell growth arrest differentiation and apoptosis in the laboratory and in preclinical studies.

Objectives To define a safe daily oral regimen of SAHA that can be used in Phase II studies. In addition the pharmacokinetic profile of the oral formulation of SAHA was be evaluated. The oral bioavailability of SAHA in humans in the fasting vs. non fasting state and anti tumor effects of treatment were also monitored. Additionally the biological effects of SAHA on normal tissues and tumor cells were assessed and responses with respect to levels of histone acetylation were documented.

Patients Patients with histologically documented advanced stage primary or metastatic adult solid tumors that are refractory to standard therapy or for which no curative standard therapy exists. Patients must have a Karnofsky Performance Status of 70 and adequate hematologic hepatic and renal function. Patients must be at least four weeks from any prior chemotherapy radiation therapy or other investigational anticancer drugs.

Dosing Schedule On the first day patients were first treated with 200 mg of intravenously administered SAHA. Starting on the second day patients were treated with daily doses of oral SAHA according to Table 1. Each cohort received a different dose of SAHA. QD indicates dosing once a day Q12 hours indicates dosing twice a day. For example patients in Cohort IV received two 800 mg doses of SAHA per day. Doses were administered to patients daily and continuously. Blood samples were taken on day one and on day 21 of oral treatment. Patients were taken off oral SAHA treatment due to disease progression tumor regression unacceptable side effects or treatment with other therapies.

Results Comparison of serum plasma levels shows high bioavailability of SAHA administered orally both when the patient fasted and when the patient did not fast compared to SAHA administered intravenously IV SAHA . AUC is an estimate of the bioavailability of SAHA in ng ml min where 660 ng ml is equal to 2.5 M SAHA. The AUC taken together with the half life t shows that the overall bioavailability of oral SAHA is better than that of IV SAHA. Cis the maximum concentration of SAHA observed after administration. IV SAHA was administered at 200 mg infused over two hours. The oral SAHA was administered in a single capsule at 200 mg. Tables 2 and 3 summarize the results of an HPLC assay LCMS using a deuterated standard that quantitates the amount of SAHA in the blood plasma of the patients versus time using acetylated histone 4 ACH4 as a marker.

In another experiment twenty five patients with solid tumors have been enrolled onto arm A thirteen patients with Hodgkin s or non Hodgkin s lymphomas have been enrolled onto arm B and one patient with acute leukemia and one patient with myelodysplastic syndrome have been enrolled onto arm C as shown in Table 4.

Among eleven patients treated in Cohort II one patient experienced the DLT of grade 3 diarrhea and grade 3 dehydration during the first treatment cycle. Nine patients were entered into Cohort III. Two patients were inevaluable for the 28 day toxicity assessment because of early study termination due to rapid progression of disease. Of the seven remaining patients five experienced DLT during the first treatment cycle diarrhea dehydration n 1 fatigue dehydration n 1 anorexia n 1 dehydration n 1 and anorexia dehydration n 1 . These five patients recovered in approximately one week after the study drug was held. They were subsequently dose reduced to 400 mg QD which appeared to be well tolerated. The median days on 400 mg BID for all patients in Cohort III was 21 days. Based on these findings the 400 mg q12 hour dosing schedule was judged to have exceeded the maximally tolerated dose. Following protocol amendment accrual was continued in cohort IV at a dose of 600 mg once a day. Of the seven patients enrolled onto cohort IV two were inevaluable for the 28 day toxicity assessment because of early study termination due to rapid progression of disease. Three patients experienced DLT during the first treatment cycle anorexia dehydration fatigue n 1 and diarrhea dehydration n 2 . The 600 mg dose was therefore judged to have exceeded the maximally tolerated dose and the 400 mg once a day dose was defined as the maximally tolerated dose for once daily oral administration. The protocol was amended to evaluate additional dose levels of the twice a day dosing schedule at 200 mg BID and 300 mg BID administered continuously.

The interim pharmacokinetic analysis was based on 18 patients treated on the dose levels of 200 mg QD 400 mg QD and 400 mg BID. In general the mean estimates of C. and AUCof SAHA administered orally under fasting condition or with food increased proportionally with dose in the 200 mg to 400 mg dose range. Overall the fraction of AUCdue to extrapolation was 1 or less. Mean estimates for apparent half life were variable across dose groups under fasting condition or with food ranging from 61 to 114 minutes. The mean estimates of C varies from 233 ng ml 0.88 M to 570 ng ml 2.3 M . The bioavailable fraction of SAHA calculated from the AUCvalues after the IV infusion and oral routes was found to be approximately 0.48.

Peripheral blood mononuclear cells were collected pre therapy immediately post infusion and between 2 10 hours after oral ingestion of the SAHA capsules to assess the effect of SAHA on the extent of histone acetylation in a normal host cell. Histones were isolated and probed with anti acetylated histone H3 antibody followed by HRP secondary antibody. Preliminary analysis demonstrated an increase in the accumulation of acetylated histones in peripheral mononuclear cells that could be detected up to 10 hours after ingestion of SAHA capsules at 400 mg per day dose level.

Thirteen patients continued treatment for 3 12 months with responding or stable disease thyroid n 3 sweat gland n 1 renal n 2 larynx n 1 prostate n 1 Hodgkin s lymphoma n 2 non Hodgkin s lymphoma n 2 and leukemia n 1 .

Six patients had tumor shrinkage on CT scans. Three of these six patients meet the criteria of partial response one patient with metastatic laryngeal cancer and two patients with non Hodgkin s lymphomas . These partial responses occurred at the dose levels of 400 mg BID n 2 and 600 mg QD n 1 .

Table 5 shows a dosing schedule for patients receiving SAHA intravenously. Patients begin in Cohort I receiving 300 mg mof SAHA for five consecutive days in a week for one week for a total dose of 1500 mg m. Patients were then observed for a period of two weeks and continued to Cohort II then progressed through the Cohorts unless treatment was terminated due to disease progression tumor regression unacceptable side effects or the patient received other treatment.

While this invention has been particularly shown and described with references to preferred embodiments thereof it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes in form and details may be made therein without departing from the meaning of the invention described. Rather the scope of the invention is defined by the claims that follow 

1. Sporn M. B. Roberts A. B. and Driscoll J. S. 1985 in Cancer Principles and Practice of Oncology eds. Hellman S. Rosenberg S. A. and DeVita V. T. Jr. Ed. 2 J. B. Lippincott Philadelphia P. 49.

8. Tanaka M. Levy J. Terada M. Breslow R. Rifkind R. A. and Marks P. A. 1975 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 72 1003 1006.

9. Reuben R. C. Wife R. L. Breslow R. Rifkind R. A. and Marks P. A. 1976 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 73 862 866.

10. Abe E. Miyaura C. Sakagami H. Takeda M. Konno K. Yamazaki T. Yoshika S. and Suda T. 1981 Proc. Natl Acad Sci. USA 78 4990 4994.

11. Schwartz E. L. Snoddy J. R. Kreutter D. Rasmussen H. and Sartorelli A. C. 1983 Proc. Am. Assoc. Cancer Res. 24 18.

19. Terada M. Epner E. Nudel U. Salmon J. Fibach E. Rifkind R. A. and Marks P. A. 1978 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 75 2795 2799.

21. Schwartz E. L. Brown B. J. Nierenberg M. Marsh J. C. and Sartorelli A. C. 1983 Cancer Res. 43 2725 2730.

26. Melloni E. Pontremoli S. Damiani G. Viotti P. Weich N. Rifkind R. A. and Marks P. A. 1988 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 85 3835 3839.

27. Reuben R. Khanna P. L. Gazitt Y. Breslow R. Rifkind R. A. and Marks P. A. 1978 J. Biol. Chem. 253 4214 4218.

29. Melloni E. Pontremoli S. Michetti M. Sacco O. Cakiroglu A. G. Jackson J. F. Rifkind R. A. and Marks P. A. 1987 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sciences USA 84 5282 5286.

31. Egorin M. J. Sigman L. M. VanEcho D. A. Forrest A. Whitacre M. Y. and Aisner J. 1987 Cancer. Res. 47 617 623.

32. Rowinsky E. W. Ettinger D. S. Grochow L. B. Brundrett R. B. Cates A. E. and Donehower R. C. 1986 J. Clin. Oncol. 4 1835 1844.

33. Rowinsky E. L. Ettinger D. S. McGuire W. P. Noe D. A. Grochow L. B. and Donehower R. C. 1987 Cancer Res. 47 5788 5795.

35. Young C. W. Fanucchi M. P. Walsh T. B. Blatzer L. Yaldaie S. Stevens Y. W. Gordon C. Tong W. Rifkind R. A. and Marks P. A. 1988 Cancer Res. 48 7304 7309.

37. Marks P. A. Breslow R. Rifkind R. A. Ngo L. and Singh R. 1989 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86 6358 6362.

38. Breslow R. Jursic B. Yan Z. F. Friedman E. Leng L. Ngo L. Rifkind R. A. and Marks P. A. 1991 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 88 5542 5546.

40. Cohen L. A. Amin S. Marks P. A. Rifkind R. A. Desai D. and Richon V. M. 1999 Anticancer Research 19 4999 5006.

