---

title: Electrical connector with offset mating surfaces
abstract: An electrical connector includes an electrically insulating body having a base mating surface and a stepped mating surface offset from the base mating surface. The electrical connector either has first and second electrically conducting pins extending from the base and stepped mating surfaces, respectively, or has first and second electrically conducting sockets extending from an interior portion of the electrically insulating body to the base and stepped mating surfaces, respectively.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08052484&OS=08052484&RS=08052484
owner: United Technologies Corporation
number: 08052484
owner_city: Hartford
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101015
---
The U.S. Government has a paid up license in this invention and the right in limited circumstances to require the patent owner to license others on reasonable terms as provided for by the terms of Contract No. N00019 02 3003 awarded by the United States Navy.

The present invention relates to electrical connectors and in particular to compact electrical connectors. Certain complex systems such as a gas turbine engine include both mechanical subsystems and electrical subsystems. Certain mechanical subsystems can be subjected to relatively large forces and therefore require relatively strong components. The electrical subsystems typically require an electrical connection for power transmission signal transmission or both. In gas turbine engines and other systems where space is a premium it can be difficult to locate cables and electrical connectors in positions suitable to make electrical connections for the electrical subsystems while limiting negative impact on structural strength of components of the mechanical subsystems.

For example it may be desirable to drill a hole through a mechanical component in order to run a cable to an electrical subsystem. However drilling a hole large enough for a standard electrical connector can undesirably reduce strength of the mechanical component below a suitable threshold. The difficulty with using a smaller connector is that if the connector s pins or other contact element get too close together arcing can occur between the pins causing equipment to function improperly and or become damaged.

According to the present invention a male electrical connector includes an electrically insulating body having a base mating surface and a first stepped mating surface offset from the base mating surface. A first electrically conducting pin extends from the base mating surface. A second electrically conducting pin extends from the first stepped mating surface.

Another embodiment of the present invention is a female electrical connector that includes an electrically insulating body having a base mating surface and a first stepped mating surface offset from the base mating surface. A first electrically conducting socket extends from an interior portion of the electrically insulating body to the base mating surface. A second electrically conducting socket extends from the interior portion of the electrically insulating body to the first stepped mating surface.

Vane arm has arm portion connecting handle pin to shaft . Like shaft shaft also has a substantially cylindrical perimeter and a substantially circular shaft end with teeth extending therefrom. Teeth 36 mesh with teeth to allow couple shafts and together to rotate inside bushing about centerline axis C. Bushing has a substantially cylindrical inner surface and functions to limit wear as shafts and rotate against bushing . Bushing can be connected to or integrally formed with an engine case not shown of the gas turbine engine. Handle pin connects to a mechanism not shown that drives vane arm to rotate FIVV as directed by a gas turbine engine controller not shown .

Hinge pin extends through hole in vane arm and hole in FIVV . Hinge pin threadedly engages with FIVV to hold vane arm rotatably fixed with respect to FIVV . Tab washer has tab which folds into hole of vane arm and also has tab which folds against head of hinge pin to limit rotation of hinge pin caused by vibration or otherwise.

Connector hole extends through shaft of vane arm . Connector hole extends through shaft of FIVV . Connector holes and are defined by their respective inner surfaces and . When assembled connector hole is aligned with connector hole to allow male connector and female connector to connect to one another by extending through connector holes and . Male connector has electrically insulating body with outer surface and female connector has electrically insulating body with outer surface . Inner surface inner surface outer surface and outer surface are each substantially kidney shaped with a relatively narrow width W and a relatively long length L width W and length L are shown with respect to outer surface of electrically insulating body in for clarity . Because connector holes and have a relatively narrow width W in a direction perpendicular to centerline axis C connector holes and have a relatively small impact on torque strength of shafts and . Inner surface inner surface outer surface and outer surface being kidney shaped also helps ensure male connector and female connector are properly aligned when removably connected to each other. Connector holes and can also be referred to as circular slots since they are shaped as slots that curve in a circular direction about centerline axis C.

O ring seal extends around outer surface of insulating body to provide a seal against inner surface of connector hole .

Female connector is connected to cable which can connect to a wire harness not shown which in turn can connect to an engine controller not shown . Male connector is connected to heater via heater connection pad and also connected to temperature sensor . Temperature sensor can be a resistance temperature detector RTD positioned on FIVV for sensing temperature of FIVV . In the illustrated embodiment temperature sensor is a relatively long and thin RTD positioned between spar blade and composite layers . Heater is also positioned on FIVV for deicing FIVV . In the illustrated embodiment heater is a thin flat layer within composite layers . Male connector has four pins which mate with four sockets to connect the engine controller to heater and temperature sensor . The engine controller receives temperature signals from temperature sensor and activates heater as necessary to device FIVV .

Pins A D extend from electrically insulating body in substantially the same direction so as to be substantially parallel to one another. Pins A and D extend from base mating surface . Pin B extends from stepped mating surface . Pin C extends from stepped mating surface . Pins B and C are positioned substantially between pins A and D. Stepped mating surfaces and are also positioned substantially between pins A and D. Pins A and D have a larger diameter than pins B and C. Pins A D are made of electrically conducting material.

Electrically insulating body has been partially cut away to show details within. Pins A and D are electrically connected to heater connection pad via wires A and D respectively for transmitting power to heater shown in . Pins B and C are electrically connected to temperature sensor via wires B and C respectively for transmitting temperature signals from temperature sensor . Pins A and D transmit power that is relatively high voltage and high current as compared to the signals transmitted by pins B and C.

Electrically insulating body has been partially cut away to show details within. Sockets A D are aligned in substantially the same direction so as to be substantially parallel to one another. Sockets A and D extend from an interior portion of electrically insulating body to base mating surface . Socket B extends from an interior portion of electrically insulating body to stepped mating surface . Socket C extends from an interior portion of electrically insulating body to stepped mating surface . Sockets B and C are positioned substantially between sockets A and D. Stepped mating surfaces and are also positioned substantially between sockets A and D. Sockets A and D have a larger diameter than sockets B and C. Sockets A D are made of electrically conducting material.

Sockets A D are electrically connected to the wire harness not shown and ultimately to the engine controller not shown via wires A D respectively. Sockets A and D transmit power that is relatively high voltage and high current as compared to the signals transmitted by sockets B and C.

Function of male connector and female connector will now be described with respect to both and . When male connector is connected to female connector male mating surface can be positioned near female mating surface . Male mating surface can be substantially adjacent female mating surface or can be spaced from female mating surface by positioning interfacial seal shown in between base mating surfaces and . Base mating surface can be positioned near base mating surface stepped mating surface can be positioned near stepped mating surface and stepped mating surface can be positioned near stepped mating surface .

Pins A D each require sufficient electrical insulation to prevent arcing to nearby conductors such as each other spar shown in or other conducting surfaces. Similarly sockets A D also requires sufficient electrical insulation to prevent arcing to nearby conductors such as each other. The same is true of wires A D and wires A D. Electrically insulating bodies and can provide that insulation to prevent arcing for those portions of pins A D sockets A D wires A D and wires A D which electrically insulating bodies and cover.

However pins A D extend from electrically insulating body to insert into sockets A D. When male connector is connected to female connector pins A D are positioned in sockets A D. To the extent male mating surface is not perfectly sealed against female mating surface exposed portions of pins A D are insulated by only air. The suitability of air as an electric insulator depends in part on dielectric distance between two conductors. A table of suitable dielectric distances depending on voltage and current can be found in MIL STD 38999. For ordinary conductors the distance between exposed portions of two pins would be that of a perpendicular line directly between those pins. However for male connector distance between an exposed portion of pin D and pin C extends along path P which travels across a portion of base mating surface up to stepped mating surface and across a portion of stepped mating surface . Thus extending pin C from stepped mating surface instead of base mating surface increases the effective distance between pin C and pin D for electrical insulation purposes. Similarly extending pin B from stepped mating surface instead of base mating surface increases the effective distance between pin B and pin A for electrical insulation purposes. Similarly extending pin B from stepped mating surface instead of stepped mating surface increases the effective distance between pin B and pin C for electrical insulation purposes. Furthermore positioning stepped mating surfaces and between pins A and D also increases the effective distance between pins A and D for electrical insulation purposes even though pins A and D both extend from base mating surface . Stepped mating surfaces and increases the effective distance between sockets A B C and D in a similar manner. In an alternative embodiment one or both of pins A and D can also extend from a stepped mating surface that is offset from base mating surface .

Elevating stepped mating surfaces and above base mating surface allows pins A D to be horizontally positioned closer together and allows overall size of male connector to be reduced. As a corollary sinking stepped mating surfaces and below base mating surface allows sockets A D to be positioned closer together and allows overall size of female connector to be reduced. This allows connector holes and to have their sizes reduced thus increasing strength of shafts and . In an alternative embodiment stepped mating surfaces and can be sunken below base mating surface and stepped mating surfaces and can be elevated above base mating surface .

While the invention has been described with reference to exemplary embodiments it will be understood by those skilled in the art that various changes may be made and equivalents may be substituted for elements thereof without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition many modifications may be made to adapt a particular situation or material to the teachings of the invention without departing from the essential scope thereof. Therefore it is intended that the invention not be limited to the particular embodiments disclosed but that the invention will include all embodiments falling within the scope of the appended claims. For example use of male connector and female connector is not limited for use in deicing a fan inlet variable vane. Rather male connector and female connector can be used with other rotating mechanical couplings or in virtually any application where space is limited but electrical arcing between connector pins is a concern.

