---

title: Methods and systems to correct for hematocrit effects
abstract: Described and illustrated herein are exemplary methods of operating an analyte measurement system having a meter and a test strip. Such methods may be exemplarily achieved by determining a first glucose concentration by measuring a first reflectance at about a first wavelength at a testing surface of the pad; measuring a second reflectance at about a second wavelength; formulating at least one equation to correct the first glucose concentration for temperature or hematocrit effects using the second reflectance at about the second wavelength; determining a second glucose concentration using the first glucose concentration, the second reflectance at about a second wavelength; and displaying the second glucose concentration that is corrected for temperature and hematocrit effects.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08391940&OS=08391940&RS=08391940
owner: LifeScan, Inc.
number: 08391940
owner_city: Milpitas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100204
---
Measuring the concentration of substances particularly in the presence of other substances is important in many fields and especially in medical diagnostics. For example the measurement of glucose in body fluids such as blood is crucial to the effective treatment of diabetes.

Proper regulation of blood glucose fluctuations requires accurate measurement of the concentration of glucose in the blood. Failure to do so can produce extreme complications such as blindness and loss of circulation in the extremities.

Multiple methods are known for measuring the concentration of glucose in a blood sample. Such methods typically fall into one of two categories optical methods and electrochemical methods. Optical methods generally involve the use of reflectance or absorbance spectroscopy to determine the glucose concentration. In optical methods a chemical reaction produces a color change indicative of the concentration of glucose. Electrochemical methods generally involve measuring amperometric or coulometric responses that are proportional to the concentration of glucose.

Multiple contributing factors such as variations in blood composition limit the accuracy of blood glucose measurements. For example variations in hematocrit the concentration of red blood cells can affect the signal generated by the interaction of a blood sample with the test reagent. Variations in the temperature at which the glucose is measured may also affect the accuracy of the blood glucose result.

Applicants have recognized a need for a system and method that can accurately measure blood glucose in the presence of varying temperature and hematocrit.

In view of the foregoing and in accordance with one aspect there is provided a method of correcting for hematocrit effects in a glucose measurement system having a meter and a test strip. The test strip includes a pad sandwiched between a transport medium and a support. The pad is impregnated with color producing reagent. The meter includes optical components configured to direct light at a testing surface of the test strip and to measure the reflected light from the testing surface of the test strip. The meter also includes a signal processor configured to process the reflected light from the testing surface and to calculate a glucose concentration that is corrected for temperature and hematocrit effects. The method can be achieved by determining a first glucose concentration by measuring a first reflectance at about a first wavelength proximate a surface of the test strip having a membrane impregnated with a color producing reagent measuring a temperature and a second reflectance at about a second wavelength determining a second glucose concentration with at least one equation to correct the first glucose concentration with the temperature and the second reflectance at about the second wavelength and displaying the second glucose concentration.

In yet a further embodiment a method of correcting a glucose concentration in a glucose measurement system. The system includes a test strip and an optical reading device. The method can be achieved by determining a first glucose concentration by measuring a first reflectance at about a first wavelength proximate a surface of the test strip having a membrane impregnated with a color producing reagent measuring a second reflectance at about a second wavelength determining a second glucose concentration with at least one equation based on the second reflectance at about the second wavelength and displaying the second glucose concentration.

In another embodiment a method of correcting a glucose concentration in a glucose measurement system. The system includes a test strip and an optical reading device. The method can be achieved by determining a first glucose concentration by measuring a first reflectance at about a first wavelength proximate a surface of the test strip having a membrane impregnated with a color producing reagent measuring a second reflectance at about a second wavelength determining a second glucose concentration based on the second reflectance at about the second wavelength with an equation of the form 20112314 1 5 6 1 7 8 1 91 

In another embodiment a method of correcting a glucose concentration in a glucose measurement system. The system includes a test strip and an optical reading device. The method can be achieved by determining a first glucose concentration by measuring a first reflectance at about a first wavelength proximate a surface of the test strip having a membrane impregnated with a color producing reagent measuring a temperature and a second reflectance at about a second wavelength determining a second glucose concentration based on the temperature and the second reflectance at about the second wavelength with an equation of the form 

In yet still another embodiment a method of correcting a glucose concentration in a glucose measurement system. The system includes a test strip and an optical reading device. The method can be achieved by determining a first glucose concentration by measuring a first reflectance at about a first wavelength proximate a surface of the test strip having a membrane impregnated with a color producing reagent measuring a temperature and a second reflectance at about a second wavelength determining a second glucose concentration based on the temperature measurement and the second reflectance made at about the second wavelength with an equation of the form 211234151 67 1 8 9 

In another embodiment a method of correcting a glucose concentration in a glucose measurement system. The system includes a test strip and an optical reading device. The method can be achieved by determining a first glucose concentration by measuring a first reflectance at about a first wavelength at a surface of the test strip having a membrane impregnated with a color producing reagent measuring a temperature and a second reflectance at about a second wavelength determining a second glucose concentration based on the second reflectance at about the second wavelength and the measured temperature with the equation of the form 2 0 1 1 2 3 4 1 5 1 

These and other embodiments features and advantages will become apparent to those skilled in the art when taken with reference to the following more detailed description of the embodiments of the invention in conjunction with the accompanying drawings that are first briefly described here below.

The following detailed description should be read with reference to the drawings in which like elements in different drawings are identically numbered. The drawings which are not necessarily to scale depict selected exemplary embodiments and are not intended to limit the scope of the invention. The detailed description illustrates by way of example not by way of limitation the principles of the invention. This description will clearly enable one skilled in the art to make and use the invention and describes several embodiments adaptations variations alternatives and uses of the invention including what is presently believed to be the best mode of carrying out the invention.

As used herein the terms about or approximately for any numerical values or ranges indicate a suitable dimensional tolerance that allows the part or collection of components to function for its intended purpose as described herein. In addition as used herein the terms patient host user and subject refer to any human or animal subject and are not intended to limit the systems or methods to human use although use of the subject invention in a human patient represents a preferred embodiment.

Referring to the test strip includes a pad sandwiched between a support and a transport medium . Support includes an aperture through which a signal may be measured from a testing surface of pad . Support may be formed from a material having the property of being sufficiently rigid to be inserted into meter without undue bending or kinking. In one embodiment support may be formed of materials such as polyolefins e.g. polyethylene or polypropylene polystyrene or polyesters. More specifically support may be formed from white polyester sold by DuPont under the trademark Melinex .

Referring back to pad may be attached to support such that pad overlaps aperture . Pad may be a substantially planar rectangle having a testing surface and an opposing sample receiving surface . In an embodiment testing surface may be attached to support with adhesive not shown formed of acrylic rubber and or ethylene vinyl acetate. The sample receiving surface may be attached to transport medium . Pad may be formed from an anisotropic membrane having a testing surface with relatively small pores and a sample receiving surface having relatively large pores . In an embodiment the small pores may range in diameter from about 0.1 microns to about 1.0 microns and the large pores may range in diameter from about 5 microns to about 50 microns. In general the pore size progressively increases in size when moving from sample receiving surface to testing surface .

Pad may be impregnated with a color forming reagent specific to glucose by for example dipping the pad in the color forming reagent in one or more steps after which the pad may be dried. The reagent includes a first and second enzyme and a dye couple. The first enzyme selectively catalyzes a primary reaction with glucose. A product of the primary reaction may be an intermediate that participates in a secondary enzyme catalyzed reaction that directly or indirectly causes a final dye to change color that may be detectable at the testing surface of pad . In one embodiment the reagent includes glucose oxidase horseradish peroxidase and a dye couple that may be a derivative of MBTH meta 3 methyl 2 benzothiazolinone hydrozone N sulfonyl benzenesulfonate monosodium coupled with ANS or 8 anilino 1 naphthalenesulfonate . Glucose oxidase catalyzes the oxidation of glucose to gluconolactone and the concomitant formation of hydrogen peroxide. Horseradish peroxidase then catalyzes the oxidation of the dye couple by hydrogen peroxide. The oxidation of the dye couple results in the formation of a blue color that may be detectable at the testing surface of the pad .

An adhesive layer attaches sample receiving surface of pad to transport medium in such a manner that the central portion of sample receiving surface may be unobstructed. In embodiment adhesive layer may be formed of acrylic rubber and or ethylene vinyl acetate. In another embodiment a hot melt adhesive may be placed in continuous stripes located only near the perimeter of pad leaving a central portion of sample receiving surface of pad substantially unobstructed. In yet another embodiment transport medium may be formed of a material that fuses to pad with the application of heat and or pressure.

In an embodiment transport medium extends past one or more ends of pad so as to form a reservoir for holding excess amounts of blood sample. Transport medium may have a special property of being able to hold excess amounts of blood while the same time being able to transfer a suitable amount of liquid to sample receiving surface through capillary action. Further transport medium does not readily transfer blood back to the user if a user touches an outer surface of transport medium that contains blood.

To determine the blood glucose concentration a sample of whole blood is applied to an outer surface of transport medium which includes pores that drain the sample therethrough by capillary action. In one embodiment the transport medium may be formed from a sintered plastic material such as porous polyethylene materials available from the Porex Corp. of Fairburn Ga. USA.

The blood sample passes through transport medium and enters pad through sample receiving surface having large pores. The blood then travels toward testing surface that has small pores. As the blood passes through pad the red blood cells become trapped and the glucose containing plasma passes through. As the sample passes through pad glucose in the sample reacts with the reagent impregnated within pad to form a light absorbing color on testing surface . Unabsorbed light is reflected and may be measured with a light detector shown in .

The light reflected from testing surface at first and second wavelengths may be detected by a light detector . For each wavelength the current generated by light detector may be passed to an amplifier amp which converts the current to voltage. The voltage from the amplifier may be then fed to an analog to digital converter . The analog to digital converter converts the analog voltage from the amplifier to a twelve bit binary digital number upon command of a microprocessor . The digital number thus obtained is proportional to the reflectance at the first and second wavelengths. The reflectance data may be stored in a memory and or be used to calculate a glucose concentration which may then be displayed on the display .

The reflectance values measured at about the first wavelength e.g. about 660 nm may be used to determine the glucose concentration in a whole blood sample. As a result of the interaction of the reagent in the test strip with glucose in whole blood a light absorbing color may be formed. As the reaction progresses more color may be formed and the light reflected to the light detector decreases. The reflectance at about the first wavelength reaches a sufficiently low rate of increase of K S value at a level proportional to the glucose concentration in the sample. If a stable endpoint value is not achieved after a predetermined time period e.g. about 2 minutes then an error warning appears. To determine an endpoint value the reflectance at about the first wavelength may be measured at about one second intervals and may be converted to K S see equation 1 discussed in paragraph 43 below . When m points typically 6 have been collected the first and last points are used to compute the percent change of K S in the m point interval. The first and last points are then shifted by n seconds typically one second and the computations are repeated. This process may be repeated until an endpoint condition is detected.

If a certain number typically 3 of consecutive percent change values of K S are positive and all less than a certain amount typically 1 then it is determined that the observation of the reaction sequence started before endpoint A see and endpoint A has now been reached.

If a certain number typically 3 of consecutive percent change values of K S are negative and all greater than a certain amount typically 1 then it is determined that the observation of the reaction sequence started after endpoint B see and endpoint B has now been reached.

The reflectance values measured at about the second wavelength e.g. about 940 nm may be used to determine whether enough blood has been applied to the test strip and to measure the amount of hemoglobin. Hemoglobin in red blood cells absorbs light at about the second wavelength. Note that the hematocrit value may be directly proportional to the amount of hemoglobin. Thus when whole blood is applied to the test strip light reflected at about the second wavelength decreases which can be measured at detector .

If insufficient sample has been applied to the test strip then a smaller change in reflected light may be detected at about the second wavelength and an error warning informs the user that not enough blood was applied to the test strip . Note that a typical blood sample having a low hemoglobin content that may be dosed onto the test strip will still cause a greater decrease in reflectance than a partially filled tested strip. Thus the second wavelength can be effective for both monitoring whether the test strip is sufficiently filled with blood and for measuring the amount of hemoglobin.

For most situations applicant believes that the first glucose concentration may be a sufficiently accurate measurement of blood glucose for people with diabetes. However under certain circumstances where the blood sample may have an extreme hematocrit e.g. 20 or 70 and or be tested under an extreme temperature conditions e.g. about 10 C. or less or about 45 C. or more applicant believes that there is a need to calculate a second glucose concentration which is more accurate than the first glucose concentration. Applicants have determined that the reflectance values measured at about the second wavelength may be used to reduce the effect of the hematocrit level and temperature on the glucose measurement. However applicants also found the reflectance signal at about the second wavelength e.g. about 940 nm was lower by at least an order of magnitude than the reflectance signal at about the first wavelength e.g. about 660 nm . Applicants also found that the background noise in measuring the second reflectance was substantially higher than for the first reflectance. Thus applicants were surprised that a more accurate second glucose measurement could be calculated using the second wavelength without degrading the precision of the measurement.

The hematocrit level represents a percentage of the volume of a whole blood sample occupied by red blood cells. More red blood cells are present at higher hematocrit levels resulting in greater amounts of hemoglobin which absorbs light at about the second wavelength e.g. about 940 nm. Thus as the hematocrit level increases less reflected light at about the second wavelength may be detected by the light detector . Since reflectance at about the second wavelength may be directly related to the hematocrit level the reflectance at about the second wavelength may be used to correct the glucose concentration calculated from the reflectance at about the first wavelength e.g. about 660 nm as will be described in more detail below. The amount of light absorbed and consequently reflected at about the second wavelength may be small. Studies of the absorption spectra of hemoglobin indicate that the signal in the region of about 940 nm may be about ten times less than that at about 660 nm see Horecker B L J. of Biological Chemistry Vol. 148 173 183 1943 which is incorporated by reference as set forth herein .

Referring again to meter also includes a temperature sensor for measuring ambient temperature. An exemplary temperature sensor may include a thermocouple or a thermistor. The temperature sensor typically may be placed in close proximity to the test strip such that the measured temperature may be representative of the conditions at proximate the surface of the pad . The voltage output from the temperature sensor may be fed to the analog to digital converter which converts the analog voltage to a twelve bit binary digital number upon command of the microprocessor . The digital number thus obtained is proportional to the temperature at the time of the test. The temperature data may be stored in memory and or be used to determine how long the reaction between the reagent and glucose in blood should be allowed to proceed before declaring an error if an endpoint is not reached. Briefly the determination of an analyte concentration such as glucose depends upon a chemical reaction occurring within the pad of the test strip . The rate of reaction of the chemical reaction going to completion will be a function of temperature. Thus if the temperature may be too low or too high e.g. less than about 10 C. or greater than 40 C. then the meter will report an error. If the temperature is low but still operable then the meter will adjust for the low temperature by extending the reading time of the reaction zone. The meter determines how long to extend the reading time based on a lookup table of time limits versus temperature. The time limits are empirically determined to be the normal upper limits of reaction time with typical test strip lots. Applicants have found that the ambient temperature measured by the meter may also be used to improve the accuracy of the glucose concentration as will be described in more detail below.

Referring to the aforementioned meter and test strip embodiments may be configured to carry out method to apply a temperature and hematocrit correction to a glucose concentration that about uses will now be described.

In exemplary step meter and test strip are provided. Meter includes optical components that can be used to direct light to testing surface of test strip and to detect reflected light from testing surface of test strip . Meter also includes microprocessor with an algorithm for the method of determining a corrected glucose concentration in a whole blood sample as disclosed herein.

In exemplary step a first glucose concentration may be determined by measuring a first reflectance at about a first wavelength e.g. about 660 nm proximate a surface of test strip having pad impregnated with a color producing reagent. A second reflectance at about a second wavelength e.g. about 940 nm is then measured at proximate the surface of test strip and a temperature may be measured near test strip with temperature sensor . In exemplary step the first reflectance is mathematically transformed to a K Svalue using the Kubelka Monk equation Equation 1 . In general a K S value may be preferred over the use of a reflectance value because the K S value will have a proportional relationship that increases with the analyte concentration.

In exemplary step the K Svalue obtained from Equation 1 is next corrected for meter to meter variations using the following equation 0 1 2 

The KSvalue obtained from Equation 2 is then corrected for lot to lot strip variations in exemplary step . Each lot of strips has been tested at the factory and given a single code number. The code number references a set of coefficients e.g. 21 sets stored in the memory of each meter and indexed against a code number. For example a linear correlation is believed adequate to account for lot to lot variations in the strip in the glucose test and hence two coefficients per set are stored against each code number. Upon inserting a strip into the meter the user will be asked to enter the proper code number found on the package of strips being employed. The microprocessor will then obtain the proper coefficients from a look up table. To correct the KSvalue for lot to lot strip variations the following equation may be used 0 1 3 

Next in exemplary step a first glucose concentration is calculated using the following equation 1 0 1 2 strip 3 strip 4 

The first glucose concentration is then corrected for temperature and hematocrit effects in the next exemplary step . In embodiments in which off meter dosing may be used i.e. the sample is applied to the test strip prior to insertion into the meter the reflectance at about the first wavelength may be measured at any time up to a specified time limit such as for example about 2 minutes. Note that off meter dosing differs from on meter dosing where the test strip must be physically attached to the meter before sample is applied. In general a user can more easily dose a hanging drop of blood on a fingertip to a test strip that is not attached to a meter. An unattached test strip is easier to maneuver than a test strip physically tethered to a meter. Also in environments where multiple users are tested with one meter the potential for contamination is lower. It should be noted that the amount of time that passes before a user inserts a test strip into the meter can vary when performing an off meter dosing. Surprisingly applicants have found that variations in the strip insertion timing do not have an effect on accuracy when performed with a specified time limit of less than about two minutes.

As illustrated in the applicants have observed that the K Smay reach a maximum value and then may drift down over time to a stable value. The time required to reach the maximum value can depend on the reaction rate and amount of glucose in the sample. A stable value may refer to a situation where the K S value does not change substantially with time. In an embodiment the stable value may also be referred to as constant or plateau region. Referring back to the maximum value region is denoted by an A and the stable value region may be denoted by B. An endpoint time reflectance can be used to calculate the K Sin equation 1. The endpoint time K S can be based on the maximum value A or the stable value B . Note that there is believed to be an advantage in using region A because the test time can be shorter.

In contrast to K S K Smay approach a stable value rapidly with time not shown . Note that the K Sdepends on the amount of hemoglobin in the sample and does not depend on the rate of subsequent enzymatic reaction once the strip is dosed with blood. Thus once pad is fully wetted with blood the K Smay be a stable value that does not change with time. In an embodiment K Smay be monitored substantially concurrently or substantially at the same time as K S. In another embodiment K Smay be monitored at a different time as K S. For example an optical chopper or alternating pulses of the LED s may be used to alternate the illumination of testing surface between LED and LED .

Thus the equation for a second glucose concentration that may be empirically derived to correct for temperature and hematocrit effects depends on the time at which the reflectance at about the first wavelength is taken. For example the equation derived will be different i.e. will have different coefficients at region A and at region B as illustrated in . In general the derived equation may be of the form 2 1 5 

In embodiments i j or k may range from zero to 3 but may not be set to three at the same time. In an embodiment Equation 5 becomes a polynomial equation of the form 201123415167 1 8 9 10 1 11 12 13114 1 T a15 1 161171 18 19 6 

In an embodiment of equation 6 in which coefficients a10 through a19 were determined to be substantially less than coefficients a1 to a9 and were therefore set to zero Equation 6 becomes a polynomial equation of the form 20 1 1 2 3 41 51 6 7 1 8 9 7 

In an embodiment of equation 6 in which coefficients a7 through a19 were determined to be substantially less than coefficients a1 to a6 and were therefore set to zero Equation 6 becomes a linear equation of the form 20112341516 8 

In an embodiment of equation 5 in which G1 is corrected for only hematocrit effects all the terms in Equation 5 that include T will be zero such that Equation 6 has the form 2 1 9 

In the last exemplary step the second and final glucose concentration G2 may be displayed on the meter . Because temperature and hematocrit effects are taken into account G2 is a more accurate test result.

First glucose concentration G1 data was obtained for about thirty lots of test strips by testing each lot with whole blood containing glucose at about 100 350 mg dL and having hematocrit values of 24 60 . Each lot of test strips was also tested at temperatures ranging from about 24 C. about 35 C. One test strip at each condition of glucose hematocrit and temperature was tested for each lot of test strips. Referring again to G1 was determined at the maximum value for K S at about 660 nm i.e. at region A and at a stable value for reflectance at about 660 nm i.e. at region B . G2 the second glucose concentration corrected for temperature and hematocrit was then determined by using the following polynomial equation 2 0 1 1 23 7 1 8 9 10 

Equation 10 is based on equation 6 in which coefficients a4 to a6 and a10 to a19 were determined to be substantially less than coefficients a1 to a3 and a7 to a9 and were therefore set to zero.

At the maximum value for K S at about 660 nm i.e. at region A in the Equation 10 is 2 30.9 1.37 1 5.941527 0.000652 1 0.122 2521 11 

At the stable value for K S at about 660 nm i.e. at region B in the Equation 10 is 2 293 1.96 1 8.67817 0.00198 1 0.0761 7352 12 

As illustrated by and Tables 1 and 2 correcting G1 for temperature and hematocrit effects improves Rand the standard error of prediction thus improving the accuracy of the second and final glucose concentration G2.

The same data sets as were used in Example 1 were also fit to a linear model resulting in a equation of the form 201 1 24 1 5 1 13 Equation 13 is based on equation 6 in which coefficients a3 and a6 to a19 were determined to be substantially less than coefficients a1 a2 a4 and a5 and were therefore set to zero.

At the maximum value for K S at about 660 nm i.e. at region A in the Equation 13 is 2 41.8 0.396 1 1.927.63 1 0.0147 1 14 

At the stable value for K S at about 660 nm i.e. at region B in the Equation 13 is 2 31.3 786 11.6 1 0.0259 1 15 

Note that there are no G1 or T terms in Equation 15 because the coefficients a1 and a2 in Equation 12 are zero.

As illustrated by and Tables 3 and 4 correcting G1 for temperature and hematocrit effects improves Rand the standard error of prediction thus improving the accuracy of the second and final glucose concentration G2.

It is noted that the various methods described herein can be used to generate software codes using off the shelf software development tools such as for example C or C with appropriate compiler and other ancillaries known to those skilled in the art . The methods additionally may be transformed into other software language s such as for example Visual Studio 6.0 Windows 2000 Server and SQL Server 2000 depending on the requirements and the availability of new software languages for coding the methods. Additionally the various methods described once transformed into suitable software codes may be embodied in any computer readable storage medium that when executed by a suitable microprocessor or computer are operable to carry out the steps described in these methods along with any other necessary steps.

In conclusion the system and methods described and illustrated herein can be used to reduce the effect of hematocrit and temperature on the glucose measurement. Thus the glucose result obtained with the subject system and method is believed to be more accurate.

While the invention has been described in terms of particular variations and illustrative figures those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the invention is not limited to the variations or figures described. In addition where methods and steps described above indicate certain events occurring in certain order those of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the ordering of certain steps may be modified and that such modifications are in accordance with the variations of the invention. Additionally certain of the steps may be performed concurrently in a parallel process when possible as well as performed sequentially as described above. Therefore to the extent there are variations of the invention which are within the spirit of the disclosure or equivalent to the inventions found in the claims it is the intent that this patent will cover those variations as well.

