---

title: Dynamic data refresh for mobile device applications
abstract: The frequency with which data is refreshed for an application executed by a mobile device may be dynamically set based on one or more of the state of the battery or the network access of the device, or the frequency with which the application is used. The data refresh frequency may also be dynamically set based on additional parameters, including, e.g., the strength of the signal of the network over which the mobile device is communicating.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08942771&OS=08942771&RS=08942771
owner: Google Inc.
number: 08942771
owner_city: Mountain View
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101102
---
Mobile devices provide the benefit of being portable while allowing a user to perform a variety of functions including various forms of communication and computing. For example some mobile devices are capable of accessing the Internet executing gaming applications playing videos and music as well as providing functionality of a traditional mobile e.g. cellular phone. As mobile devices are not tethered to a physical communication medium or stationary power source such devices are generally powered by a rechargeable battery. A persistent challenge in mobile device design is increasing the length of time the device may operate without recharging the battery.

In general this disclosure is directed to techniques for dynamically refreshing data employed in one or more applications executed on a mobile device. In one example a method includes determining at least one of a battery state or a network access state of a mobile device and setting by a computing device a data refresh frequency for at least one application executable by the mobile device based on the at least one of the battery state or the network access state of the mobile device. The battery state includes one or both of a power state and a charge state of a battery of the mobile device. The network access state includes a type of network accessed by the mobile device. The data refresh frequency includes a frequency with which updated data for the at least one application is periodically received from a computing device external to the mobile device.

In another example a mobile device configured to execute at least one application includes a battery and a telemetry module. The mobile device also includes means for determining at least one of a battery state of the battery or a network access state of the telemetry module and setting a data refresh frequency for the at least one application based on the at least one of the battery state or the network access state. The battery state includes one or both of a power state and a charge state of a battery of the mobile device. The network access state includes a type of network accessed by the mobile device. The data refresh frequency includes a frequency with which updated data for the at least one application is periodically received from a computing device external to the mobile device.

In another example a computer readable storage medium includes instructions for causing a programmable processor to determine at least one of a battery state or a network access state of a mobile device and set a data refresh frequency for at least one application executable by the mobile device based on the at least one of the battery state or the network access state of the mobile device. The battery state includes one or both of a power state and a charge state of a battery of the mobile device. The network access state includes a type of network accessed by the mobile device. The data refresh frequency includes a frequency with which updated data for the at least one application is periodically received from a computing device external to the mobile device.

The details of one or more embodiments of the disclosure are set forth in the accompanying drawings and the description below. Other features objects and advantages of the disclosure will be apparent from the description and drawings and from the claims.

This disclosure is directed to techniques for managing data refresh frequencies dynamically for both system and end user applications to optimize battery life and network congestion while improving end user experience. Data refresh frequency refers to a frequency with which updated data for applications executed by a mobile device is periodically received from a computing device external to the mobile device. Currently data refresh and caching for mobile device applications is configured on a per application basis without coordination between multiple applications and without regard to factors such as battery consumption or network congestion. Instead application data refresh frequencies e.g. are commonly a function of an interval of time e.g. daily hourly or weekly that does not depend on other parameters. Users are able to customize such default refresh frequencies for individual applications. However such techniques do not provide an optimal user solution or even a significant improvement over the default configuration. The techniques described in this disclosure allow application data refresh frequencies to be set dynamically as a function of e.g. battery state network access state and application usage across multiple applications. Battery state may define a power state e.g. plugged in and charging or in use or a charge state e.g. a percentage battery life remaining for a battery of a mobile device in examples according to this disclosure. Network access state may define a type of network accessed by a mobile device in examples according to this disclosure.

Mobile device may include any number of different portable electronic mobile devices including e.g. cellular phones personal digital assistants PDAs laptop computers portable gaming devices portable media players e book readers watches and the like. Additionally mobile device may be employed in the disclosed examples by different types of users including e.g. test users and consumers. Test users may include employees of the mobile device and or software manufacturer while consumers may be the purchasers of the devices. In some examples the type and amount of data and usage patterns that is tracked by mobile device may depend on the type of user associated with a particular device or a number of devices. In any case regardless of the type system may be configured such that users may opt in or opt out of dynamic data refresh functions executable by mobile device .

Network may include one or more terrestrial and or satellite networks interconnected to provide a means of communicatively connecting mobile device to mail server calendar server and application server as well as mail data calendar data and application data . For example network may be a private or public local area network LAN or Wide Area Network WANs . Network may include both wired and wireless communications according to one or more standards and or via one or more transport mediums. For example network may include wireless communications according to one of the 802.11 or Bluetooth specification sets or another standard or proprietary wireless communication protocol. Network may also include communications over a terrestrial cellular network including e.g. a GSM Global System for Mobile Communications CDMA Code Division Multiple Access EDGE Enhanced Data for Global Evolution network. Data transmitted over network e.g. from mobile device to data repository may be formatted in accordance with a variety of different communications protocols. For example all or a portion of network may be a packet based Internet Protocol IP network that communicates data from mobile device to data repository in Transmission Control Protocol Internet Protocol TCP IP packets over e.g. Category 5 Ethernet cables.

Mail server calendar server and application server may be any of several different types of network devices. For example servers may include a data processing appliance web server specialized media server personal computer operating in a peer to peer fashion or another type of network device. Additionally although example system of includes three servers mail server calendar server and application server associated with three applications executed on mobile device other examples may include different numbers of collocated or distributed servers configured to communicate application data with mobile device . For example mobile device may include a number of third party applications and data refresh engine may therefore be configured to communicate not just with one application server e.g. application server of example system of but with a number of application servers corresponding to the third party applications executed by the mobile device.

Data repositories of system i.e. mail data calendar data and application data may include e.g. a standard or proprietary database or other data storage and retrieval mechanism. Mail data calendar data and application data may be implemented in software hardware and combinations of both. For example mail data calendar data and application data may include proprietary database software stored on one of a variety of storage mediums on a data storage server connected to network and configured to collect battery life data from mobile devices. Storage medium included in or employed in cooperation with data repository may include e.g. any volatile non volatile magnetic optical or electrical media such as a random access memory RAM read only memory ROM non volatile RAM NVRAM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or any other digital media.

Although mail data calendar data and application data and mail server calendar server and application server are illustrated as separate components in example system of in other examples each of the respective pairs of server and data repository e.g. mail server and mail data may be combined or may each be distributed amongst more than one device. For example mail server may store mail data and control the repository to periodically supply fresh e mail data to mobile device . In another example mail data may be distributed among a number of separate devices e.g. a number of database servers and mail server may include a number of co located or distributed servers configured to operate individually and or in cooperation with one another and with the various devices comprising mail data .

In the example of mobile device includes a number of applications including e.g. an e mail calendar and third party application configured to refresh application data periodically by communicating with mail server calendar server and application server respectively over network . For example an e mail application executed by mobile device may be configured to receive refreshed data stored on mail data from mail server over network once every hour. In some examples the life of a battery of mobile device as well as congestion of network may be affected by the manner in and efficiency with which mobile device refreshes application data over the network.

In one example battery consumption of mobile device may be increased as a result of repeated switching between different network access states of the mobile device. For example network may require a different access state for mobile device at different times as the mobile device travels between different types of networks. Additionally network may include multiple networks over which mobile device may communicate with different speeds or effectiveness. In such examples mobile device may be configured to automatically or at the behest of a user select one of the networks included in network . In any event mobile device may need to switch network access states e.g. between cellular network access e.g. 3G access and local wireless network access e.g. Wi Fi access depending on network in a particular locality or at a particular time. Repeated switching between network access states of mobile device in order to communicate over network may cause the battery of the device to become depleted or discharged rapidly.

Battery consumption of mobile device may also be increased as a result of staying in a network access state with a higher battery consumption rate longer e.g. as multiple applications executed on the device refresh data without any coordination between one another. For example ten applications executed by mobile device may be configured to refresh data daily. However as there may be no coordination between the different applications of mobile device the data may be refreshed at ten different times throughout the day. Lack of coordination of data refresh frequencies for applications of mobile device may also increase congestion of network which may in turn act to reduce the quality of service for users of the network.

Mobile device includes data refresh engine which may be configured to dynamically set application data refresh frequencies for one or more applications executed on the mobile device e.g. e mail calendar and third party applications as a function of e.g. battery state network access state and application usage across multiple applications. In one example application data refresh frequencies for applications executed by mobile device may be set as a function of the battery life of a battery of the mobile device. For example in the event the battery of mobile device drops below a threshold battery life data refresh engine may decrease the refresh frequency for one or more applications executed by the mobile device such that the applications receive refreshed data over network less often. In other words in the event the battery life of the battery of mobile device is depleted to a certain level data refresh engine may automatically decrease the frequency with which some applications receive refreshed data over network to conserve power of the mobile device. In another example data refresh engine may automatically disable data refresh for all non essential or another classification applications executed by mobile device in the event the battery of the mobile device drops below a threshold battery life.

In addition to battery state application data refresh frequencies may be dynamically set by data refresh engine based on the network access state e.g. Wi Fi or 3G of mobile device . There are at least two possible reasons to set refresh frequencies as a function of the type of network mobile device is accessing. One reason is that operation of mobile device to refresh data over network in one network access state may cause greater battery consumption than in another state. For example application data refresh over a 3G network may cause greater battery consumption due to poor signal quality resulting in longer transmission times as well as a higher energy consumption per data unit size e.g. Watts bit than e.g. application data refresh over a Wi Fi network . A second reason for setting data refresh frequencies for applications executed by mobile device as a function of network access state is that it may congestion of network . Setting applications to refresh data under certain circumstances when the mobile device is in e.g. a Wi Fi access state versus a 3G access state may act to significantly reduce congestion over network which may in turn improve service for users of the network.

As an additional parameter by which applications refresh data mobile device and in particular data refresh engine may be configured to dynamically set the frequency with which applications executed by the mobile device receive refreshed data based on in addition to or in lieu of battery or network access state the frequency with which the applications are used. In other words data refresh engine may be configured to prioritize more frequently used applications executed by mobile device over less frequently used applications.

In some examples data refresh engine may apply a default increased priority rating to certain applications executed by mobile device due to the nature of the data upon which the applications operate. For example applications that require fresh data for accurate and proper operation may be set to an increased priority level regardless of the frequency with which they are used.

As described above lack of coordination of data refresh frequencies for applications of mobile device may increase consumption of the battery of the mobile device as well as increasing congestion of network . As such in one example mobile device and in particular data refresh engine may be configured to group the application data refresh times for some or all of a number of applications executed by the device together i.e. at the same time.

In mobile device is illustrated as refreshing data for three applications by communicating with mail server calendar server and application server . However in other examples mobile device may include more or fewer applications that refresh data via more or fewer servers over network . For example mobile device may include a contacts application communicating with a contacts server including contacts data as well as a number of additional third party applications configured to refresh data with one or more additional application servers via network .

Storage device stores instructions for applications that may be executed by processor and data used in such applications or collected and stored for use outside of mobile device e.g. battery life data. For example storage device may store instructions executable by processor for applications including an e mail calendar and third party application. Storage device may be a computer readable machine readable or processor readable storage medium that comprises instructions that cause one or more processors e.g. processor to perform various functions. Storage device may include any volatile non volatile magnetic optical or electrical media such as a random access memory RAM read only memory ROM non volatile RAM NVRAM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory or any other digital media. Generally speaking storage device may include instructions that cause processor to perform various functions attributed to the processor in the disclosed examples.

Generally speaking storage device includes memory that stores software that may be executed by processor to perform various functions for a user of mobile device including e.g. making and receiving cellular telephone calls or other communications like text or e mail messages using various software applications. The software included in mobile device may include telemetry and other hardware drivers for the mobile device operating system software as well as applications . The operating system software of mobile device may be configured to operate on different operating systems including e.g. proprietary systems like Microsoft s Windows Apple s MAC OS or open source systems like UNIX Linux or Google s Chrome or Android. In another example mobile device may include proprietary operating system software not based on an open source platform like UNIX. Mobile device also includes various applications stored on storage device and executed by processor including e.g. e mail calendar contact management and web browser applications as well as various types of third party vendor applications bundled with the device.

Operation of mobile device may require for various reasons receiving data from one or more sources including e.g. application data stored on mail data calendar data and application data from mail server calendar server and application server respectively as well as transmitting data from the mobile device e.g. data stored on storage device to one or more external sources which may also include the data repositories and servers of system . For example mail server may be configured to contact mobile device via network to push refreshed application data to an e mail application stored on storage device and executed by processor .

Data communications to and from mobile device may be handled by telemetry module . Telemetry module is configured to transmit data requests to and receive data responses from one or more external sources via network . Telemetry module may support various wireless communication techniques and protocols and includes appropriate hardware and software to provide such communications. For example telemetry module may include an antenna modulators demodulators amplifiers and other circuitry to effectuate communication between mobile device and mail calendar and application servers and respectively via network .

Mobile device includes display which may be e.g. a liquid crystal display LCD light emitting diode LED display e ink or other display. Display presents the content of mobile device to a user. For example display may present the applications executed on device such as an e mail or calendar application as well as information about the mobile device including e.g. battery life and or network signal strength. In some examples display may provide some or all of the functionality of user interface . For example display may be a touch screen that allows the user to interact with mobile device . In generally however user interface allows a user of mobile device to interact with the device via one or more input mechanisms including e.g. an embedded keypad a keyboard a mouse a roller ball buttons scroll wheel touch pad touch screen or other devices or mechanisms that allow the user to interact with the device.

In some examples user interface may include a microphone to allow a user to provide voice commands. Users may interact with user interface and or display to execute one or more of applications stored on storage device . Some of applications may be executed automatically by mobile device such as when the device is turned on or booted up. Additionally in some examples users may interact with user interface to configure application data refresh settings controlled by data refresh engine .

Battery provides power for all if the various components of mobile device and may be rechargeable. Examples of battery include a lithium polymer battery a lithium ion battery nickel cadmium battery and a nickel metal hydride battery. The life of battery of mobile device depends on many factors. Generally speaking e.g. the life of battery is affected by loads on the battery caused by using either software or hardware components of mobile device. As different components of mobile device both different hardware and different software components draw different amounts of power the load on battery may vary according to component usage patterns. For example a backlight for display may draw more power than an accelerometer such that the life of battery of mobile device may decrease significantly with increased backlight usage while being less impacted by increased usage of the accelerometer. In another example the network access state of mobile device e.g. 3G access may require more power than another network access state e.g. Wi Fi access.

Mobile device also includes data refresh engine the functions of which in some examples may be executed by processor . As described above with reference to data refresh engine may be configured to dynamically set application data refresh frequencies for one or more of applications of mobile device e.g. e mail calendar and third party applications as a function of e.g. battery state network access state and application usage across multiple applications. An example configuration of data refresh engine is illustrated in including interface module data communication module configuration module and dynamic data refresh module .

Interface module of data refresh engine may enable integration of the engine with applications executed on mobile device e.g. applications including e.g. e mail calendar and third party applications. One or more of the applications included in applications of mobile device may include controls for setting data refresh frequencies. For example an e mail application included in applications may be equipped with a default refresh frequency of hourly but may also enable users to alter the default to increase or decrease the frequency e.g. every 15 minutes or daily.

Interface module may be configured to communicate data refresh frequencies set dynamically by data refresh engine e.g. dynamic data refresh module of the refresh engine to one or more of applications . In this manner data refresh engine via interface module may propagate dynamically set data refresh frequencies to applications of mobile device e.g. automatically without the need for user intervention. In one example interface module may be configured to integrate with applications through e.g. one or more Application Programming Interfaces APIs and or Software Development Kits SDKs which may include packaged software components e.g. algorithms for interfacing with one or more functions of settings of the applications executed by mobile device .

Data communication module of data refresh engine may be configured to mediate or control communication between applications of mobile device and each applications respective remote data repository from which refreshed data is periodically received. For example data communication module may control or mediate communication between an e mail application of mobile device and mail server and mail data to periodically receive refreshed e mail data from mail data via server . In one example data communication module may include wireless communication components configured for refreshing application data for applications of mobile device . In another example however data communication module of data refresh engine may function in conjunction with telemetry module of mobile device to control or mediate data communications between applications and remote data repositories e.g. mail data calendar data and application data .

Configuration module of data refresh engine may be configured to enable user configuration of various settings by which the refresh engine dynamically sets refresh frequencies for one or more of applications of mobile device . For example configuration module may be configured to allow users to select which of applications with which data refresh engine will interface with and for which the engine will set refresh frequencies. In another example configuration module may enable the user to set specific values by which data refresh engine will dynamically set refresh frequencies for applications of mobile device . For example configuration module may provide an interface or work in conjunction with user interface of mobile device to enable the user to set a refresh frequency value for one or more of applications for each of a number of different battery states and or network access states.

In one example configuration module enables a user to set one of a number of refresh frequencies e.g. every 15 minutes every 30 minutes hourly daily or weekly for each of a number of battery states including e.g. power states like charging or in use and charge state like different threshold battery life levels of battery of mobile device . In another example configuration module enables a user to set one of a number of refresh frequencies e.g. every 15 minutes every 30 minutes hourly daily or weekly for each of a number of network access states including e.g. 3G or Wi Fi access.

In another example of data refresh engine configuration settings by which the refresh engine dynamically sets data refresh frequencies for applications of mobile device may not be accessible to end users of the mobile device. In such an example data refresh engine may be packaged with one or more predetermined configurations by which the engine sets refresh frequencies.

Referring again to the example data refresh engine of dynamic data refresh module may be configured with one or more algorithms or other sets of computer readable instructions for dynamically setting refresh frequencies for applications of mobile device . For example dynamic data refresh module may include one or more software programs configured to monitor battery and network access states as well as monitor and record the frequency with which different ones of applications are executed by mobile device . Dynamic data refresh module may them employ the values for battery and network access states and application usage patterns returned from e.g. battery telemetry module and applications alone or in conjunction with processor and storage device of mobile device to determine data refresh frequencies for one or more of the applications executed by the mobile device that may act to increase battery life reduce network congestion and improve end user experience with the mobile device.

In one example the modules of data refresh engine may be stored on storage device and the functions associated with the modules may be executed by processor . In another example however data refresh engine may include storage and processing capabilities such that interface data communication configuration and dynamic data refresh modules respectively are stored and executed by data refresh engine . Interface data communication configuration and dynamic data refresh modules and respectively of example data refresh engine are configured to execute respective functions associated with the data refresh engine of mobile device for dynamically setting application data refresh frequencies as a function of e.g. battery state network access state and application usage across multiple applications. However in another example data refresh engine may include fewer or more modules for executing the functions described with reference to the examples of this disclosure. Additionally one or more of interface data communication configuration or dynamic data refresh modules and or any other module of data refresh engine may be implemented in hardware software or combinations thereof incorporated into mobile device .

Regardless of the particular configuration of data refresh engine of mobile device e.g. example of or another example including more or fewer modules the refresh engine may be configured to dynamically set application data refresh frequencies for one or more of applications executed on the mobile device e.g. e mail calendar and third party applications as a function of e.g. battery state network access state and application usage across multiple applications.

In one example application data refresh frequencies for applications executed by mobile device may be set by data refresh engine as a function of the state of battery of the mobile device. The state of battery may include a number of different characteristics of the battery including e.g. the power state of the battery or the level of charge remaining in the battery i.e. the remaining battery life. The power state of battery may include e.g. charging when mobile device is plugged into an external power source from which the battery of the device is being charged. The power state of battery may also include in use when the battery is not charging and mobile device is operating by drawing power from the battery. The charge level of battery or the battery life of the battery may expressed in a number of different ways including e.g. a percentage of fully charged i.e. 50 charged or a time before the battery becomes discharged e.g. 5 hours battery life remaining.

The manner in which data refresh engine employs the state of battery of mobile device as a basis for dynamically setting data refresh frequencies for applications may vary in different examples. In one example data refresh engine may dynamically set data refresh frequencies for applications executed by mobile device as a function of the battery life of battery . For example in the event battery of mobile device drops below a first threshold battery life data refresh engine may decrease the refresh frequency for one or more of applications such that the applications receive refreshed data over network less often. In other words in the event the battery life of battery of mobile device is depleted to a certain level data refresh engine may automatically decrease the frequency with which some or all of applications receive refreshed data over network to conserve power of the mobile device.

In another example data refresh engine may automatically disable data refresh for all non essential or another classification applications executed by mobile device in the event battery drops below a second threshold battery life which may be less than the first threshold. For example data refresh engine may automatically disable data refresh for every application that does not relate to critical operational functions of mobile device e.g. making and receiving phone calls in the event battery drops below the second threshold battery life.

In another example however data refresh engine may dynamically set data refresh frequencies for applications executed by mobile device as a function of the power state of battery . For example in the event battery of mobile device is plugged into an external power source and is charging data refresh engine may increase the refresh frequency for one or more of applications such that the applications receive refreshed data over network more often. In other words in the event battery of mobile device is charging data refresh engine may automatically increase the frequency with which some or all of applications receive refreshed data over network because conserving power may be less of a concern when the battery is plugged in and charging.

In some examples data refresh engine may dynamically set data refresh frequencies for applications executed by mobile device as a function of a number of different states of battery . For example in the event battery of mobile device is in use and drops below a first threshold battery life data refresh engine may decrease the refresh frequency for one or more of applications such that the applications receive refreshed data over network less often. In other words in the event the battery life of battery of mobile device is depleted to a certain level and the battery is in use i.e. not plugged in and charging data refresh engine may automatically decrease the frequency with which some or all of applications receive refreshed data over network to conserve power of the mobile device.

In addition to battery state application data refresh frequencies may be dynamically set by data refresh engine based on the network access state of mobile device . The network access state of mobile device may include accessing a number of different types of networks for communications and data transmissions between the device and remote systems e.g. mail server calendar server application server . For example mobile device and in particular telemetry module may access a local wireless network employing communications according to one of the 802.11 or Bluetooth specification sets or another standard or proprietary wireless communication protocol. Telemetry module of mobile device may also access a cellular network including e.g. a GSM Global System for Mobile Communications CDMA Code Division Multiple Access EDGE Enhanced Data for Global Evolution network.

In one example telemetry module of mobile device may be configured to access Wi Fi local wireless networks and 3G cellular networks. In such an example data refresh engine may be configured to dynamically set refresh frequencies for one or more of applications executed by mobile device based on whether telemetry module is currently communicating over a Wi Fi local wireless network or a 3G cellular network. For example data refresh engine may decrease the refresh frequency for one or more of applications such that the applications receive refreshed data over network less often in the event telemetry module of mobile device is currently communicating over a 3G network. In other words in the event the network access state of telemetry module of mobile device is 3G cellular network access data refresh engine may automatically decrease the frequency with which some or all of applications receive refreshed data over network to conserve power of the mobile device and decrease congestion over network .

In another example data refresh engine may increase the refresh frequency for one or more of applications such that the applications receive refreshed data over network more often in the event telemetry module of mobile device is currently communicating over a Wi Fi local wireless network. In other words in the event the network access state of telemetry module of mobile device is Wi Fi network access data refresh engine may automatically increase the frequency with which some or all of applications receive refreshed data over network because Wi Fi access may require less power from battery than cellular network access and congestion over network may be less of a concern over the local wireless network infrastructure than over a cellular network.

As an additional parameter by which applications refresh data mobile device and in particular data refresh engine may be configured to dynamically set the frequency with which applications executed by the mobile device receive refreshed data based on the frequency with which the applications are used. In other words data refresh engine may be configured to prioritize more frequently used applications executed by mobile device over less frequently used applications. For example data refresh engine of mobile device may set the data refresh frequency for one or more of applications in direct proportion to the usage frequency of the applications. In other words in one example data refresh engine may be configured to dynamically set the data refresh frequency for one or more applications such that the refresh frequency of each respective application increases as the usage frequency of the application increases.

In addition to battery and network access state and application usage patterns there are additional parameters upon which data refresh engine may base refresh frequency settings for one or more of applications of mobile device . In some examples data refresh engine may apply a default increased priority rating to certain applications executed by mobile device due to the nature of the data upon which the applications operate. For example applications that require fresh data for accurate and proper operation may be set to an increased priority level regardless of the frequency with which they are used.

In one example an internet application e.g. Google Voice may approximate a real time application such that it is desirable for the application to have access to updated data as frequently as possible because e.g. Google Voice may be configured to synchronize an inbox of voice messages for users in real time. In such examples an application may be configured by default with a very high data refresh frequency e.g. every 5 minutes. Data refresh engine may be configured to maintain at least the default refresh frequency but may also in some examples increase the refresh frequency depending on various parameters related to mobile device e.g. battery or network access state. For example data refresh engine may increase the refresh frequency for a real time application like Google Voice to every 15 to 30 seconds. Additionally in one example data refresh engine may employ a time degrade function such that the increased refresh frequency set by the refresh engine may degrade back to the 5 minute interval default setting of the application after a period of inactivity e.g. to facilitate real time communications while not unnecessarily draining the battery life if battery of mobile device .

In another example mobile device and in particular data refresh engine may be configured to group the application data refresh times for some or all of applications together i.e. at the same time. In some examples data refresh engine may base refresh frequencies for one or more of applications based not only on the network access state of telemetry module of mobile device but also on the strength of the network signal. For example data refresh engine may decrease the refresh frequency for one or more of applications when the network access state of telemetry module is accessing a cellular network e.g. a 3G network and the signal strength of the network is less than a threshold.

In some examples data refresh engine may be configured with one or more algorithms that combine some or all of the foregoing parameters to dynamically set refresh frequencies for applications executed by mobile device . For example data refresh engine may be configured to dynamically set refresh frequencies for one or more of applications based on the state of battery and the network access state of telemetry module . In another example data refresh engine may be configured to dynamically set refresh frequencies for one or more of applications based on the state of battery the network access state of telemetry module and the frequency with which the applications are executed by mobile device .

One example is illustrated below in Table 1. In the example of Table 1 battery state both power state and battery life of battery network access state and network signal strength and application usage patterns are combined by data refresh engine to dynamically set data refresh frequencies for applications executed by mobile device . In one example the data shown in Table 1 may be stored on storage device of mobile device . For example Table 1 may be a look up table database or other organized aggregation of data stored on storage device and accessed by data refresh engine to set data refresh frequencies for applications .

In Table 1 the network access state examples including an asterisk assume a threshold network signal strength. For example all of the example network access states in Table 1 with an asterisk may assume that the signal strength of the network is greater than 50 . In another example all of the example network access states in Table 1 with an asterisk may assume that the signal strength of the network is greater than 75 . In another example all of the example network access states in Table 1 with an asterisk may assume that the signal strength of the network is greater than 25 .

In the example of Table 1 data refresh engine determines the state of battery and telemetry module of mobile device and dynamically sets the refresh frequencies for applications based on battery and network access state as well as in some cases application usage frequency and network signal strength. For example data refresh engine determines that the power state of battery is charging the battery life of the battery is 100 and that telemetry module is currently accessing a Wi Fi network. In this case data refresh engine refers to Table 1 and determines that based on these battery and network states of mobile device the data for all of applications should be aggressively refreshed every 15 minutes.

In another example data refresh engine determines that the power state of battery is charging the battery life of the battery is 100 and that telemetry module is currently accessing a 3G cellular network. In this case data refresh engine refers to Table 1 e.g. stored on storage device and determines that based on these battery and network states of mobile device the data for the most commonly used of applications should be aggressively refreshed every 15 minutes while data for less commonly used applications is refreshed only hourly. In this example data refresh engine may also hold refreshing larger offline data like video and books until the refresh engine determines that telemetry module is accessing or within range of a Wi Fi network.

In another example data refresh engine determines that the power state of battery is charging the battery life of the battery is less than 50 . In this case regardless of whether telemetry module is currently accessing a 3G cellular or Wi Fi local wireless network data refresh engine refers to Table 1 e.g. stored on storage device and determines that based on the battery state of mobile device only the data for the most commonly used of applications should be refreshed while less commonly used applications do not receive any refreshed data. In this example data refresh engine may infer from the power state and battery life of battery of mobile device that a user may have plugged in the mobile device to charge because of low battery life but may only be charging for a short time thus aggressively refreshing data for all of applications may not be warranted in this case.

The rest of the examples in Table 1 correspond to battery of mobile device being in use and not plugged in charging with varying levels of battery life remaining. In general in these examples usage patterns for applications become increasingly important as the battery life of battery decreases. In one example data refresh engine determines that the power state of battery is in use the battery life of the battery is less than between 76 and 100 and telemetry module is currently accessing a Wi Fi network. In this case data refresh engine refers to Table 1 and determines that data for the all of applications should be refreshed relatively frequently e.g. hourly. In this example although battery is in use the battery life remaining is close to full i.e. 76 100 and telemetry module of mobile device is communicating over a local wireless network which may require less power per unit of data than if the device were communicating over a cellular network. Thus data refresh engine determines that all of applications may receive refreshed data and that the refresh frequency may be relatively frequent in the example of Table 1 once every hour.

In contrast to the foregoing example in another example illustrated in Table 1 data refresh engine determines that the power state of battery is in use the battery life of the battery is less than between 76 and 100 and telemetry module is currently accessing a 3G cellular network. In this example data refresh engine refers to Table 1 and determines that data for only the most commonly used of applications should be refreshed. In particular data refresh engine sets the refresh frequency for the most commonly used of applications to e.g. somewhere in a range from 2 to 4 hours or as needed based on the frequency with which each respective application is used. In this example data refresh engine decreases the refresh frequency for some of applications over the previous example because the refresh engine determines that telemetry module of mobile device is communicating over a cellular network instead of a local wireless network.

Additionally data refresh engine adds an additional qualification and only allows data to be refreshed for the most commonly used of applications . With respect to application usage data refresh engine sets the refresh frequency for each of the most commonly used of applications to one of a constant time interval i.e. 2 4 hours in this particular example or to correspond to the usage frequency of the application whichever is longer. In other words if data refresh engine determines that one of the most commonly used of applications is only used once per day by a user of mobile device then the refresh engine will set the refresh frequency for that application to daily instead of once every 2 4 hours because this is all that the particular user requires to have fresh data when accessing the application.

Several of the remaining examples illustrated in Table 1 follow a similar pattern as illustrated in the last two examples. That is data refresh engine determines that the power state of battery is in use the battery life of the battery and telemetry module is accessing a cellular or local wireless network and then sets the refresh frequency for some of applications to fixed time interval or as needed based on the frequency with which each respective application is used. In these examples data refresh engine may employ an addition parameter polling to dynamically set refresh frequencies for one or more of applications .

Some of applications may be configured to in addition to refresh data periodically based on a set refresh frequency periodically poll a remote server e.g. mail server shown in to query whether or not there is any new data for the application e.g. stored on mail data . Polling may be an additional parameter by which some or all of applications are configured to refresh data associated with the operation of the application. As such data refresh engine may also determine whether and what the polling period is for one or more of applications to dynamically set the refresh frequency for that application.

For example assuming data refresh engine determines that based on battery and network access state one or more of applications of mobile device should receive refreshed data on an as needed basis based on usage frequency the refresh engine may compare the polling period and usage frequency for each of the applications to determine the appropriate refresh frequency. In one example data refresh engine determines that the usage frequency of one of applications is more often than the polling period for the application. In this example data refresh engine may set the refresh frequency for the one of applications to the polling period because this may correspond to the frequency that new data is available for that application. In another example data refresh engine determines that the usage frequency of one of applications is less often than the polling period for the application. In this example data refresh engine may set the refresh frequency for the one of applications to the usage frequency because the user does not require new data more often than the frequency with which they use the application.

The last two examples in Table 1 illustrate situations in which data refresh engine determines that battery has a very low battery life remaining or that the signal strength of the cellular network over which telemetry module of mobile device is communicating is very low respectively. In one example data refresh engine determines that the power state of battery is in use and the battery life of the battery is less than 25 . In this case regardless of the network access state of telemetry module of mobile device data refresh engine refers to Table 1 and determines that the data refresh for all of applications should be disabled except for critical data push services like voice mail for cellular telephone services delivered through the mobile device which may be automatically pushed to the mobile device by a service provider. With regard to other non critical applications executed by mobile device and that receive data automatically pushed from an external server s in one example data refresh engine may communicate with each application server and request that the server temporarily stop pushing data to the mobile device. In this example preserving the battery life of battery of mobile device may become important and as such data refresh engine may disable data refresh for most or all of applications . In one example data refresh engine may be configured to instruct the remote server s to resume data push services to mobile device e.g. after the battery life of battery exceeds a threshold and or the battery is plugged into an external power source and is charging.

In the last example illustrated in Table 1 data refresh engine determines that the power state of battery is in use and telemetry module of mobile device is communicating over a cellular network with a low signal strength e.g. less than 25 . In this case regardless of the battery life remaining on battery of mobile device data refresh engine refers to Table 1 and determines that the data refresh for all of applications should be disabled except where the applications include data that is automatically pushed to mobile device from a remote server or other device e.g. data from mail data pushed by mail server or voice mail pushed to the mobile device from a remote service provider device or system. In this example due to the poor quality of the network connection over which telemetry module is communicating data refresh engine may disable data refresh for most or all of applications because communication may be slow and prone to error and may draw an inordinate amount of power from battery negotiating the connection over the poor quality network connection.

Table 1 is one of many possible examples by which data refresh engine may be configured to dynamically set data refresh frequencies for applications of mobile device . In other examples data refresh engine may refer to a table similar to Table 1 including different actions based on the same parameters e.g. battery and network access state and application usage. In another example however data refresh engine may refer to data formatted differently than Table 1 e.g. a relational database including more than one linked tables including various parameters upon which the refresh engine may base refresh frequency settings. Additionally data refresh engine may increase or decrease the resolution of the parameters upon which it basis its actions to more or fewer possible values than illustrated in Table 1. For example data refresh engine may determine battery life of battery in increments of 10 rather than 25 as illustrated in the example of Table 1. In another example however data refresh engine may determine battery life of battery in increments of 50 rather than 25 as illustrated in the example of Table 1.

In some of the foregoing examples data refresh engine is described as configured to increase or decrease the refresh frequency of one or more of applications in the event a particular parameter e.g. battery or network access state has a particular value e.g. charging or 3G access. In some examples the change in refresh frequency executed by data refresh engine i.e. increasing or decreasing the frequency may be relative to some default frequency set for the respective one of applications . In other words in one example data refresh engine may be configured to decrease the data refresh frequency for one of applications relative to the default frequency set in the application when battery of mobile device has less than 25 battery life remaining.

In another example increasing or decreasing refresh frequencies may be executed by refresh engine by stepping through specific preset frequencies relative to the current refresh frequency setting. For example data refresh engine may be configured to increment refresh frequencies for applications in 15 minute increments based on different parameters described in the foregoing examples e.g. battery or network access state. In one such example data refresh engine may increase the current refresh frequency of one of applications e.g. an e mail application by 15 minutes in the event that the power state of battery of mobile device is charging.

In another example the manner in which data refresh engine dynamically changes refresh frequencies for one or more of applications may be specific to the particular current state of mobile device and the particular characteristics of the application for which the data refresh engine is setting the frequency. In other words data refresh engine may determine one or of the foregoing characteristics e.g. battery life and power state network access state application usage frequency and network signal strength and set the refresh frequency for one of applications to a particular frequency e.g. hourly associated with those current characteristics of mobile device .

For example data refresh engine may set the data refresh frequency for an e mail application executed by mobile device by first determining that battery has less than 50 battery life is currently in use and not plugged in charging telemetry module is currently accessing a 3G network the usage frequency of the e mail application is hourly and the signal strength of the 3G network is 75 . Data refresh engine may then search e.g. a look up table database or other organized aggregation of data stored on storage device for the battery and network access state usage frequency and signal strength just determined and return a particular refresh frequency value associated with those particular values. Such examples of data refresh engine dynamically setting refresh frequencies for applications of mobile device may be similar to the techniques described above with reference to the example including Table 1.

Although mobile device of is shown as including display aspects of this disclosure should not be considered limited to example mobile devices that include a display. In some examples of mobile device display may be optional. For example in some examples in which mobile device is a music player or a radio the device may not include a display.

The foregoing examples may include refreshing data for applications that periodically pull data from a remote server or receive data pushed to them by a remote server. One difference between data push and pull examples may be the device on which the data refresh frequency is set for sending to or receiving new data for applications executed by a mobile device. In one example in which one of applications of mobile device pulls data from a remote server e.g. mail server data refresh engine may be configured to dynamically set a data refresh frequency that defines a schedule by which the refresh engine polls the mail server for new data. In another example in which one of applications of mobile device receives data pushed from a remote server e.g. application server data refresh engine may be configured to dynamically set a data refresh frequency that causes the refresh engine to contact the application server and request that the remote server change the schedule by which new data is automatically pushed to mobile device .

The method of includes determining a battery state of a mobile device . In one example data refresh engine determines the state of battery of mobile device . The state of battery may include a number of different characteristics of the battery including e.g. the power state of the battery or the level of charge remaining in the battery i.e. the remaining battery life. The power state of battery may include e.g. charging when mobile device is plugged into an external power source from which the battery of the device is being charged. The power state of battery may also include in use when the battery is not charging and mobile device is operating by drawing power from the battery. The battery life of battery may expressed in a number of different ways including e.g. a percentage of fully charged i.e. 50 charged or a time before the battery becomes discharged e.g. 5 hours battery life remaining.

The method of also includes determining a network access state of the mobile device . In one example data refresh engine determines the type of network over which telemetry module of mobile device is communicating. The network access state of mobile device may include telemetry module accessing a number of different types of networks for communications and data transmissions between the device and remote systems e.g. mail server calendar server application server . For example mobile device and in particular telemetry module may access a local wireless network employing communications according to one of the 802.11 or Bluetooth specification sets or another standard or proprietary wireless communication protocol. Telemetry module of mobile device may also access a cellular network including e.g. a GSM Global System for Mobile Communications CDMA Code Division Multiple Access EDGE Enhanced Data for Global Evolution network. In one example telemetry module of mobile device is configured to access Wi Fi local wireless networks and 3G cellular networks.

In addition to determining a network access state of the mobile device the method of includes determining usage frequency for one or more applications of the mobile device . In one example processor of mobile device monitors the frequency with which each of applications is used and stores usage data on storage device . Data refresh engine may then determine based on the data stored on storage device the frequency with which each of applications is executed on mobile device for purposes of dynamically setting refresh frequencies for the applications.

The method of also includes setting a data refresh frequency for the applications based one or more of the battery state network access state and usage frequency . In one example data refresh engine of mobile device dynamically sets data refresh frequencies for applications based on one or more of the state of battery the type of network over which telemetry module is communicating and the usage frequency of each of the applications. In some examples data refresh engine may set refresh frequencies for applications based on additional parameters e.g. the strength of the signal of the network over which telemetry module is communicating.

As described above in one example of the method of data refresh engine may dynamically set data refresh frequencies for applications executed by mobile device as a function of the battery life of battery . For example in the event battery of mobile device drops below a first threshold battery life data refresh engine may decrease the refresh frequency for one or more of applications such that the applications receive refreshed data over network less often. In another example data refresh engine may automatically disable data refresh for all non essential or another classification applications executed by mobile device in the event battery drops below a second threshold battery life which may be less than the first threshold. In another example data refresh engine may dynamically set data refresh frequencies for applications executed by mobile device as a function of the power state of battery .

For example in the event battery of mobile device is plugged into an external power source and is charging data refresh engine may increase the refresh frequency for one or more of applications such that the applications receive refreshed data over network more often. In some examples data refresh engine may dynamically set data refresh frequencies for applications executed by mobile device as a function of a number of different states of battery . For example in the event battery of mobile device is in use and drops below a first threshold battery life data refresh engine may decrease the refresh frequency for one or more of applications such that the applications receive refreshed data over network less often.

In addition to battery state application data refresh frequencies may be dynamically set by data refresh engine based on the network access state of mobile device . The network access state of mobile device may include accessing a number of different types of networks for communications and data transmissions between the device and remote systems e.g. mail server calendar server application server including e.g. cellular networks and local wireless networks. In one example telemetry module of mobile device is configured to access Wi Fi local wireless networks and 3G cellular networks. In such an example data refresh engine may be configured to dynamically set refresh frequencies for one or more of applications executed by mobile device based on whether telemetry module is currently communicating over a Wi Fi local wireless network or a 3G cellular network.

For example data refresh engine may decrease the refresh frequency for one or more of applications such that the applications receive refreshed data over network less often in the event telemetry module of mobile device is currently communicating over a 3G network to conserve power of the mobile device and decrease congestion over network . In another example data refresh engine may increase the refresh frequency for one or more of applications such that the applications receive refreshed data over network more often in the event telemetry module of mobile device is currently communicating over a Wi Fi local wireless network because Wi Fi access may require less power from battery than cellular network access and congestion over network may be less of a concern over the local wireless network infrastructure than over a cellular network.

Mobile device and in particular data refresh engine may be also configured to dynamically set the frequency with which applications executed by the mobile device receive refreshed data based on the frequency with which the applications are used. In other words data refresh engine may be configured to prioritize more frequently used applications executed by mobile device over less frequently used applications. For example data refresh engine of mobile device may set the data refresh frequency for one or more of applications in direct proportion to the usage frequency of the applications. In other words in one example data refresh engine may be configured to dynamically set the data refresh frequency for one or more applications such that the refresh frequency of each respective application increases as the usage frequency of the application increases.

In some examples of the method of data refresh engine may be configured with one or more algorithms that combine some or all of the foregoing parameters to dynamically set refresh frequencies for applications executed by mobile device . For example data refresh engine may be configured to dynamically set refresh frequencies for one or more of applications based on the state of battery and the network access state of telemetry module . In another example data refresh engine may be configured to dynamically set refresh frequencies for one or more of applications based on the state of battery the network access state of telemetry module and the frequency with which the applications are executed by mobile device . In another example data refresh engine may be configured to dynamically set refresh frequencies for one or more of applications based on the state of battery the network access state of telemetry module the frequency with which the applications are executed by mobile device and additional parameters such as network signal strength as described above with reference to the example employing Table 1.

Although the foregoing examples are described with reference to mobile devices including rechargeable batteries as power sources the disclosed techniques may be applied to power consumption in general in which such mobile devices employ alternative power sources. As such instead of collecting correlating and aggregating battery life data from a number of mobile devices the disclosed techniques may be employed more generally to collect correlate and aggregate power source data from a number of mobile devices. Examples of alternative power sources that may be employed in mobile devices include fuel cells super capacitors non rechargeable batteries solar cells and any other power source configured to power a mobile device.

The techniques described in this disclosure may be implemented at least in part in hardware software firmware or any combination thereof. For example various aspects of the described techniques may be implemented within one or more processors including one or more microprocessors digital signal processors DSPs application specific integrated circuits ASICs field programmable gate arrays FPGAs or any other equivalent integrated or discrete logic circuitry as well as any combinations of such components. The term processor or processing circuitry may generally refer to any of the foregoing logic circuitry alone or in combination with other logic circuitry or any other equivalent circuitry. A control unit including hardware may also perform one or more of the techniques of this disclosure.

Such hardware software and firmware may be implemented within the same device or within separate devices to support the various operations and functions described in this disclosure. In addition any of the described units modules or components may be implemented together or separately as discrete but interoperable logic devices. Depiction of different features as modules or units is intended to highlight different functional aspects and does not necessarily imply that such modules or units must be realized by separate hardware or software components. Rather functionality associated with one or more modules or units may be performed by separate hardware or software components or integrated within common or separate hardware or software components.

The techniques described in this disclosure may also be embodied or encoded in a computer readable medium such as a computer readable storage medium containing instructions. Instructions embedded or encoded in a computer readable medium may cause a programmable processor or other processor to perform the method e.g. when the instructions are executed. Computer readable storage media may include random access memory RAM read only memory ROM programmable read only memory PROM erasable programmable read only memory EPROM electronically erasable programmable read only memory EEPROM flash memory a hard disk a CD ROM a floppy disk a cassette magnetic media optical media or other computer readable media. In some examples an article of manufacture may comprise one or more computer readable storage media.

In some examples computer readable storage media may comprise non transitory media. The term non transitory may indicate that a storage medium is not embodied in a carrier wave or a propagated signal. In certain examples a non transitory storage medium may store data that can over time change e.g. in RAM or cache .

Various examples have been described. These and other examples are within the scope of the following claims.

