---

title: System and method for performing calculations using a portable electronic device
abstract: An apparatus and method for performing calculations is provided so that a paradigm of a tape is utilized in a calculator application that executes on a computing platform and which is configured to enable a user to see and interact with multiple virtual tapes that each show numerical values and operators. Each tape functions as a user-accessible memory and a memory value may be recalled from any one tape and that value placed on any other tape. The calculator application is configured to enable the user to enter a sequence of values and operators which are all displayable on a given tape, as well as support the user's ability to edit any value or operator that was previously entered on that tape. Calculations are updated to reflect the user's edits on both the tape currently being edited and any other tape that uses the edited tape as a memory.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08423898&OS=08423898&RS=08423898
owner: Hale Software Concepts, Inc.
number: 08423898
owner_city: Encinitas
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100823
---
Portable electronic devices such as calculators and multipurpose computing platforms that can run software applications that provide calculator functionalities typically display information line by line i.e. one line at a time . Such information may include numerical values that a calculator user enters using a user interface such as a keypad which includes number keys i.e. buttons as well as keys for mathematical binary operators and unary functions. Many calculators interpret keystrokes using an immediate execution mode. For binary operations e.g. addition subtraction multiplication division in immediate execution mode intermediate results are calculated as each key is pressed for each operation. The order of operations in mathematical expression is not taken into account by immediate execution mode calculators unless brackets or parentheses are supported by the calculator and utilized by the user. For unary operations e.g. square root reciprocal exponents etc. the user keys the numerical value in first followed by the unary operator. The immediate execution mode of operation compares with that utilized in formula based calculators where the user types in an entire expression and then presses an enter key to evaluate the expression.

Most users find immediate execution mode calculators to be straightforward enough to use particularly for short and simple calculations. However even for simple calculations mistakes can easily be made and be difficult to spot. Errors can occur using many current calculators for a variety of reasons and commonly result because of keystroke errors and or use of an incorrect sequence of button pushes that misapplies precedence rules when performing calculations of expressions in which the order of operations affects the results. The inability to see prior entries before the current line and the fact that operators are not typically shown on the calculator s line by line display can compound difficulties because the user cannot see that an error was made or where in a given calculation it was made. Many calculators support use of a memory feature to help improve calculator functionality and help address for example some of the aforementioned issues in operation precedence by enabling users to store a result of a calculation and then recall the result in a subsequent calculation. However the number of available memories is typically limited in many consumer oriented calculators to just one or two. In addition the calculations used to create the stored results can still be prone to the errors that result from the limitations of the line by line display.

This Background is provided to introduce a brief context for the Summary and Detailed Description that follow. This Background is not intended to be an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter nor be viewed as limiting the claimed subject matter to implementations that solve any or all of the disadvantages or problems presented above.

An apparatus and method for performing calculations is provided so that a paradigm of a tape like that employed by a traditional adding machine or printing calculator is utilized in a calculator application that executes on a computing platform and which is configured to enable a user to see and interact with multiple virtual tapes that each show numerical values and operators using a scrollable user interface window. Each tape functions as a user accessible memory and a user may recall a memory value which is typically the last value on the tape from any one tape and place that value on any other tape for example as part of a calculation. The calculator application is configured to enable the user to enter a sequence of values and operators which are all displayable on a given tape as well as support the user s ability to edit any value or operator that was previously entered on that tape. The calculator application will update the calculations to reflect the user s edit on both the tape currently being edited and any other tape that uses the edited tape as a memory.

In various illustrative examples the calculator application is embodied substantially using software that executes on a portable electronic device such as a smartphone or personal media player. The calculator application enables the user to name tapes as well as provide textual comments and line annotations on the tapes. A memories window is supported by the calculator application s user interface so that the user can see a summary of tape names and memory values before recalling a value. Multiple different calculations may be included on a tape and calculations using various units of time e.g. hours minutes seconds days months years are supported by the calculator application. The calculator application is also configured with functionality to e mail tapes selected by the user to specified recipients.

Advantageously the calculator application provides enhanced features and functionalities compared to ordinary conventional calculators that can typically be expected to increase productivity improve the quality of the user experience when performing calculations and reduce the occurrence of errors. In particular the ability to see an entire chain of calculations including all values and operators and edit the values and operators to make desired changes facilitates much more user control over calculations and provides a visual confirmation of values and operators so that longer or more complex calculations can be performed with a high degree of confidence in the calculated result. In addition the calculator application s support for multiple tapes each of which functions as a memory to the other tapes provides additional flexibility when performing calculations. The textual commenting and annotation features provide the user with more options to organize and track calculations.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key features or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used as an aid in determining the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Like reference numerals indicate like elements in the drawings. Elements are not drawn to scale unless otherwise indicated.

Typically the touchscreen is made up of a touch sensor component that is constructed over a display component. The display component displays images in a manner similar to that of a typical monitor on a PC or laptop computer. In many applications the device will use a liquid crystal display LCD due to its light weight thinness and low cost. However in alternative applications other conventional display technologies may be utilized including for example cathode ray tubes CRTs plasma screens and electro luminescent screens.

The touch sensor component sits on top of the display component. The touch sensor is transparent so that the display can be seen through it. Many different types of touch sensor technologies are known and may be applied as required to meet the needs of a particular implementation. These include resistive capacitive near field optical imaging strain gauge dispersive signal acoustic pulse recognition infrared and surface acoustic wave technologies among others. Some current touchscreens can discriminate among multiple simultaneous touch points and or are pressure sensitive. Interaction with the touchscreen is typically accomplished using fingers or thumbs or for non capacitive type touch sensors a stylus may also be used.

The calculator application is typically implemented using device or machine executable code that may be arranged in an application layer as shown in the software architecture depicted in which is operable on the electronic device . Thus the application layer will generally include one or more applications each of which will typically be represented by an icon that is displayed on the touchscreen . The applications interact with the operating system which provides various methods and functions required for the applications to provide their intended functionality. The operating system also implements interfaces to various functional components that are abstracted in a hardware layer using for example respective device drivers .

Storage can include for example one or more storage media including a hard drive solid state drive flash memory permanent memory such as ROM read only memory any other suitable type of storage component or any combination thereof. Storage can store for example media data e.g. music and video files application data e.g. for implementing functions on electronic device firmware user preference information data e.g. media playback preferences authentication information e.g. libraries of data associated with authorized users lifestyle information data e.g. food preferences exercise information data e.g. information obtained by exercise monitoring equipment transaction information data e.g. information such as credit card information wireless connection information data e.g. information that can enable electronic device to establish a wireless connection subscription information data e.g. information that keeps track of podcasts or television shows or other media a user subscribes to contact information data e.g. telephone numbers and e mail addresses calendar information data and any other suitable data or any combination thereof.

Memory can include cache memory semi permanent memory such as RAM random access memory and or one or more different types of memory used for temporarily storing data. In some implementations memory can also be used for storing data used to operate electronic device applications or any other type of data that can be stored in storage . In some implementations memory and storage can be combined as a single storage medium.

I O input output circuitry can be operative to convert and encode decode if necessary analog signals and other signals into digital data. In some implementations I O circuitry can also convert digital data into any other type of signal and vice versa. For example I O circuitry can receive and convert physical contact inputs e.g. from a multi touchscreen physical movements e.g. from a mouse or sensor analog audio signals e.g. from a microphone or any other input. The digital data can be provided to and received from control circuitry storage memory or any other component of electronic device . Although I O circuitry is illustrated in as a single component of the electronic device several instances of I O circuitry can be included in electronic device in some implementations.

Electronic device can include any suitable interface or component for allowing a user to provide inputs to I O circuitry . For example the electronic device can include any suitable input mechanism such as for example a button keypad dial a click wheel or a touchscreen. In some implementations the electronic device can include a capacitive sensing mechanism or a multi touch capacitive sensing mechanism.

In some implementations the electronic device can include specialized output circuitry associated with output devices such as for example one or more audio outputs. The audio output can include one or more speakers e.g. mono or stereo speakers built into electronic device or an audio component that is remotely coupled to electronic device e.g. a headset headphones or earbuds that can be coupled to a communications device with a wire or wirelessly .

In some implementations I O circuitry can include display circuitry e.g. a screen or projection system for providing a display visible to the user. For example the display circuitry can include a screen e.g. an LCD screen that is incorporated in electronics device . As another example the display circuitry can include a movable display or a projecting system for providing a display of content on a surface remote from electronic device e.g. a video projector . In some implementations the display circuitry can include a coder decoder codec to convert digital media data into analog signals. For example the display circuitry or other appropriate circuitry within the electronic device can include video codecs audio codecs or any other suitable type of codec.

The display circuitry also can include display driver circuitry circuitry for driving display drivers or both. The display circuitry can be operative to display content e.g. media playback information application screens for applications implemented on the electronic device information regarding ongoing communications operations information regarding incoming communications requests or device operation screens under the direction of control circuitry . Alternatively the display circuitry can be operative to provide instructions to a remote display.

Communications circuitry can include any suitable communications circuitry operative to connect to a communications network and to transmit communications e.g. voice or data from electronic device to other devices within the communications network. Communications circuitry can be operative to interface with the communications network using any suitable communications protocol such as for example Wi Fi e.g. an IEEE 802.11 protocol Bluetooth radio frequency systems e.g. 900 MHz 1.4 GHz and 5.6 GHz communication systems infrared GSM Global System for Mobile communications GSM plus EDGE Enhanced Data rates for Global Evolution CDMA Code Division Multiple Access quadband and other cellular protocols VoIP Voice over Internet Protocol or any other suitable protocol.

In some implementations communications circuitry can be operative to create a communications network using any suitable communications protocol. For example communications circuitry can create a short range communications network using a short range communications protocol to connect to other devices. For example communications circuitry can be operative to create a local communications network using the Bluetooth protocol to couple electronic device with a Bluetooth headset.

Electronic device can include one more instances of communications circuitry for simultaneously performing several communications operations using different communications networks although only one is shown in for sake of clarity in the drawing. For example electronic device can include a first instance of communications circuitry for communicating over a cellular network and a second instance of communications circuitry for communicating over Wi Fi or using Bluetooth. In some implementations the same instance of communications circuitry can be operative to provide for communications over several communications networks.

As shown in in some implementations the electronic device can be connected to a host device such as a laptop or desktop PC for data transfers synching the communications device software or firmware updates providing performance information to a remote source or server or performing any other suitable operation that may necessitate the electronic device being connected to the host device . A wired connection such as one implemented using the USB Universal Serial Bus protocol may be utilized although wireless connections not shown in such as Bluetooth between the electronic device and the host device are alternatives in some implementations.

Such connection to the host device may also facilitate access to a remote service and or content provider over the Internet . For example electronic device can access the service content provider to download for example media content e.g. music videos multimedia etc. and applications via the host device which is coupled to the Internet using a network gateway such as a modem . Alternatively in some cases the electronic device may connect directly to the Internet via a Wi Fi connection to the modem when the modem is configured with Wi Fi functionality.

Several electronic devices can also be coupled to a single host device using the host device as a server. Alternatively or additionally the electronic device can be coupled to several host devices e.g. to each of the plurality of the host devices to serve as a backup for data stored in electronic device .

When the user actuates the function key a function panel window as depicted in is shown on the touchscreen display . The function panel window includes the display area to show the same calculations that are shown in the main calculator window . The function panel window also includes a variety of icons collectively identified by reference numeral that represent various conventional mathematical functions and operators such as parentheses for specifying the order of operations square and square root sign change i.e. to and vice versa and reciprocal. Several specialized keys are also included in the icon set including a function key which when actuated returns the user to the main calculator window preferences key memory key which functions similarly to the memory key shown in e mail key time unit keys an insert key and a delete key . Each of these specialized keys is described in more detail below.

When the user actuates the preferences key a preferences window is shown on the touchscreen display . The preferences window includes various user selectable options for setting and selecting certain user preferences as to how the calculator application operates. For example the user can touch a switch icon to set whether an audible key click is emitted by the electronic device when keys are actuated. Similarly switches and may be set by the user to enable or disable particular features as respectively shown in . Thus turning switch to the on position allows a subtotal to be calculated when a line in the display area is tapped.

If switch is on then the memories as described below may be erased. If switch is on then a warning dialog is displayed to the user prior to memories being erased. If switch is on then a warning dialog is displayed to the user when the colon key is actuated to confirm that the user intends to enter values using a time format. Icon enables the user to select a preference for the time format that is displayed by the calculator application as described in more detail below . Icon enables the user to select a preference for certain memory functionality as described in more detail below . Icon enables the user to select a preference for default memory names as described in more detail below . When button is actuated the user is returned to the main calculator window .

When the arrow button is actuated a decimal precision window is shown on the touchscreen display . By interacting with this window the user may select the number of decimal places that are displayed by the calculator application . The user may interact with a slider to select the desired decimal precision from zero digits past the decimal point to up to six digits past the decimal point. Alternatively the user may choose from among several presets for decimal precision by actuating the appropriate buttons and which respectively set the decimal point precision automatically to zero digits i.e. none to two digits to represent hundredths in monetary calculations or to the maximum value of six digits as shown in . When the decimal precision is set to auto the calculator application will use as many decimal places as necessary when displaying calculations. The user may select whether trailing zeroes are displayed by the calculator application by toggling switch to the desired on or off position. When button is actuated the user is returned to the preferences window .

The virtual tape provides all the benefits of visual confirmation of values and operators in a given calculation while adding additional features and functionalities that are difficult or impractical to implement using a conventional paper tape as described in more detail below. As shown in the virtual tape may be visualized as scrolling along the electronic device where a portion of the tape is visible in the display area at a given instance in time. That is as the user enters values and operators when performing a calculation the values and operators are shown in the display area as if they were printed onto the virtual tape . As more values and operators are entered the virtual tape will scroll upwards to enable the latest values and operators to be viewed by the user in the display area as they are entered.

As shown in the calculator application is configured to enable the user to readily view any portion of the virtual tape by touching a portion of the display area and then dragging the display either upwards or downwards to see the desired tape portion. In this illustrative example the calculator application may implement gesture sensitive scrolling so that for example the user can use a fast flick of a digit i.e. finger or thumb so that the virtual tape scrolls relatively quickly by before eventually slowing down and stopping or by being stopped by the touch of the user at the desired location . Alternatively a slow drag of the digit across the touchscreen can enable very fine control over the tape s position. Accordingly as illustratively shown in the user can touch the touchscreen and drag downwards to move the calculation chain from a first position in the display area as indicated by reference numeral to a second position as indicated by reference numeral in to thereby reveal values and operators that are positioned higher on the virtual tape .

To the right of each of the tape names in the memories window is the last value on each of respective tapes. Thus Tape has a last value of 2 215.12 Business income has a last entry of 6 203.08 and so forth. A mathematical total of all the tape s last values is also shown in the memories window as indicated by reference numeral . The presentation of the available tapes the respective last values contained therein and the mathematical total of the last values in a single window can often be expected to be beneficial to many users. For example unlike memory recall features that are implemented in many conventional calculators the user of the present calculator application can see the values in memory prior to recalling or otherwise using such values.

When button is actuated the user is returned to the main calculator window . When button is actuated a new tape is added to the list. In this example a taped named E as indicated by reference numeral has been added it is noted that memory names start with letters by default according to the preference set by icon as described in the text accompanying above .

Buttons and enable the user to select the respective actions of recalling displaying or showing details about the selected tape. As shown in the Display button is selected. Accordingly the Household expenses tape listing when selected by the user as shown in will be displayed. shows the Household expenses tape in its entirety recognizing that only a portion of a tape is viewable at a time in the display area . As shown the tape s name is displayed along the left edge of the tape typically using a graphic device that mimics a watermark or other visible but unobtrusive marking. Similarly respectively show the Business Income tape Travel Expenses tape and Investments tape . As noted above the last value on each tape as indicated with an arrow in each FIG is what is shown on the memories window . Typically the last value on a given tape will be the result of a calculation but it does not necessarily have to be a calculated result.

When the user touches one of the editable fields fields and as shown in a virtual keyboard is displayed on the touchscreen which enables the user to enter a desired string of characters into a respective field. In this illustrative example the user is entering the string May 2010 into the comment field as indicated by the cursor which typically is configured to blink. A button is also provided which clears the field when actuated by the user .

As shown in the comment May 2010 that is entered in the comment field is displayed on the tape as indicated by reference numeral . While the comment is located towards the top of the tape in this example other locations on the tape may also be used to display the comment depending on the requirements of a particular implementation of the calculator application. As shown in the annotation Utilities that is entered in the annotation field is displayed on the tape as indicated by the reference numeral above the first numerical value i.e. 89.25 at the top of the tape . In some implementations the annotation feature may operate so that the user can go to memory details window and use the annotation field to place an annotation at the current position in any given tape. This capability would enable for example use of multi line annotations as indicated by reference numeral as well as line by line annotations i.e. a separate annotation for one or more of the values entered on a tape as indicated by reference numeral . Alternatively a separate annotation window could be used and accessed by the user via an appropriate button on the function panel shown in and described in the accompanying text for example to generate single or multi line annotations as may be required to meet the needs of a particular calculator application implementation. It is further noted that annotations can be positioned at different and varying locations on a tape by implementation. Thus for example in some implementations the annotation may precede a value on the tape while in other implementations it may be placed next to a value or following the value or combinations of placement positions may be utilized .

Returning to the memory details window includes a display button delete button e mail button and recall button . If the user actuates the display button the tape associated with the memory details window in this example the Household Expenses tape will be displayed so that it can be reviewed or edited. When the delete button is actuated the tape associated with memory details window will be cleared i.e. erased . If the warning switch is set to on as shown in and described in the accompany text a dialog box will be displayed to the user to confirm that the user wants to erase the tape prior to actually clearing it.

When the e mail button is actuated the tape associated with the memory details window will be placed into a queue for e mailing. The e mail queue may be viewed by actuating the e mail button in the function panel window . As shown in an e mail window is then displayed on the touchscreen display. The e mail window provides commonly utilized editable To and Cc Bcc text entry lines respectively indicated by reference numerals and as well as a default subject in the Subject line . In some implementations the user may be provided with a facility to pick from among e mail contacts that are stored in a contacts list or mail application that may be running on the electronic device that hosts the calculator application. Typically such contacts or e mail applications expose APIs application programming interfaces or other facilities to enable such functionality to be implemented by other applications.

The calculator application automatically populates the body of the e mail with the values and operators as they appear on the tape in this example the Household Expenses tape . Line numbers are also included in the e mail to indicate the positions of the values on the tape. The user can send the e mail or cancel it using the respective send button or cancel button . If the e mail is sent then the calculator application will generally interface with a mail application that is operable on the electronic device and hand off the e mail to the mail application for delivery using its functionalities.

Returning again to the recall button operates to recall the last value on a tape as a memory which can be placed at the current position on another tape. The memory recall function may also be invoked by the user using button in the memories window as shown in to specify the recall action when a tape is selected. In this illustrative example the user has selected the Investments tape as indicated by the highlighting which has a memory value of 2 218.56 i.e. the last value on that tape . As shown in the user is performing a chain of calculations on the tape and has entered the operator at the current line . The user may recall the Investments tape value as a memory using the recall button from the memories window as shown in or the recall button from the memory details window shown in . When recalled the calculator application inserts the memory value from the Investment tape into the current position on the tape as shown in as indicated by reference numeral . A text reference may also be included Investments Rcl in this example to indicate the source of the recalled memory on the tape . After recalling a value the user is free to make additional entries or perform other calculations. In this example the user has entered the operator to arrive at the last value of 4 433.68 on the tape.

Another feature of the calculator application is to provide the capability to edit entries on any of the tapes . For example as shown in the user may edit a tape by touching an entry in this example a value on the Investments tape to highlight it. When highlighted the user can use the backspace key shown in to delete digits in the entry and then use the keypad to key in the new digits. The calculator application updates all the calculations on the fly as the user makes each edit. Such feature is termed here as live edits. In this illustrative example as shown in the user has deleted the two digits after the decimal point in the entry which is reflected in the new calculated total as indicated by reference numeral .

As shown in the user has edited the entry so that it is now shown on the Investments tape as 144.36 as indicated by reference numeral . The calculator application calculates the new total as 2 248.56 as indicated by reference numeral . In addition the calculator application will recalculate any tape that is affected by the user s edit. For example as tape uses the Investments tape as a memory the calculator application will show the new Investments tape total in the appropriate location on the tape as indicated by reference numeral and recalculates a new total 4 463.68 as indicated by reference numeral .

In addition to supporting live edits of values the calculator application enables the user to edit operators as well. For example as shown in the operator on a tape reflects a user s edit from to as respectively indicated by reference numerals and . The calculator application recalculates the tape and any tape that uses the user edited tape as a memory and displays the new values resulting from the edited operator which in this example is a new total as indicated by reference numeral .

As noted above in the text accompanying the calculator application supports entry of values and calculations using units of time through use of the colon key . For example as shown in the first value indicated by reference numeral on tape is entered as 2 33 which according to the user preference for time units set in the preferences window means two hours and thirty three minutes. A time indicator h indicated by reference numeral is displayed on the tape to affirmatively visually confirm the time units. further shows that a second time value of 1 31 one hour and thirty one minutes is being added to the first and that the total indicated by reference numeral properly shows the sum as being 4 04 four hours and four minutes .

The calculator application enables values to be converted from one time unit to another e.g. hours minutes seconds days months years using time unit keys in the function panel window shown in . Accordingly as shown in the user has converted the sum of four hours and four minutes to corresponding values using various other time units as indicated by reference numeral . Time indicators e.g. m D s for minutes days and seconds are displayed next to the values on the tape to provide a confirmation of the time units being used.

The user s selected preference for time in the time preferences window enables the calculator application to interpret raw i.e. unitless values according to the selected preference when performing time based calculations. For example as shown in the calculator application will interpret the 2 in the first calculation on the tape to be in units of hours if the time preference is set for hours and minutes. Accordingly the calculation comprises the addition of two hours to the value of three hours and fifteen minutes to result in the sum of five hours and fifteen minutes. By contrast if the user sets the time preference for minutes and seconds in the preferences window then the calculator application will interpret the 2 to be in units of minutes. This is shown in the second calculation on the tape where the calculation comprises the addition of two minutes to the value of three hours and fifteen minutes to result in the sum of three hours and seventeen minutes.

In addition to being added time values can be subtracted and multiplied or divided by non time values as respectively shown in calculations and on the tape . Tape further depicts how multiple calculations both time based and non time based may be supported on a single tape. As noted above the last value on the tape is used as the tape s memory value which in this example is 45.00 as indicated by reference numeral .

As shown in the window displays a number 4.85 indicated by reference numeral which matches the current line in the tape indicated by reference numeral . A unit indicator is also shown in the display window to indicate if a displayed number is a regular decimal number or if it represents units of time and if in time units whether such units are hours minutes or seconds . In this example the indicator Dec is highlighted in the unit indicator to show that the displayed number is a regular decimal number.

The display window supports a feature that enables the user to select the number of digits displayed past the decimal by touching the display window and dragging to the right or left. As shown in if the user touches the display window and then drags to the right the displayed number changes from 4.85 to 4.9. That is the decimal precision of the displayed number is changed from two digits to a single digit and the displayed value is rounded up or down as appropriate. As shown in as the user continues to touch and drag to the right the displayed number will show only digits to the left of the decimal. In this example the displayed number changes from 4.9 to 5. If the user touches the display window and drags to the left then additional digits past the decimal point will be displayed. As shown in the user has revealed four digits to the right of the decimal point. If the user continues to touch and drag to left up to six digits past the decimal point may be displayed in this illustrative implementation of the calculator application.

The unit indicator in the display window may be utilized to toggle the displayed number between decimal and time units. As shown in by touching Hours in the unit indicator the displayed number will change to reflect hours and minutes i.e. 4.85 hours is equivalent to four hours and 51 minutes . By touching other unit indicators additional conversions may be performed. For example as shown in by touching Minutes in the unit indicator the displayed number will change to reflect minutes. In this example four hours and fifty one minutes is equivalent to 291 minutes.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

