---

title: Collecting and associating profile data of a user of a mobile device to events of the mobile device using a unique individual identification number
abstract: A system to collect personal and demographic data from user's of cellular mobile communications system devices. This system uses a standard web browser to collect the personal and demographic data instead of the device itself because of the limited interactive experience available to cellular mobile communications system device users. After obtaining data from the user including the user's cellular mobile communications system device's cellular phone number, a message is sent to the device. When a link is the message is activated a small event collection data software module is downloaded to the cellular mobile communications system device. The return message to the data collection entity incorporates the cellular mobile communications system device's International Mobile Equipment Identifier (IMEI) number. This number then ties the event data collected by the module to the personal and demographic information collected from the cellular mobile communications system device user.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09055122&OS=09055122&RS=09055122
owner: comScore, Inc.
number: 09055122
owner_city: Reston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101206
---
This application is a continuation of U.S. application Ser. No. 11 183 339 filed on Jul. 18 2005 and titled Acquiring Storing and Correlating Profile Data of Cellular Mobile Communications System s Users to Events which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 60 694 451 filed on Jun. 27 2005 and titled Acquiring Storing and Correlating Profile Data of Cellular Mobile all of which are incorporated by reference.

The present invention relates to the collecting of personal information including demographic data user s profile of a cellular mobile communications system CMCS device s user and then monitoring and correlating that user s CMCS events to that user s profile. The events tracked may include standard cell phone events that the CMCS device is capable of such as receiving and sending standard cell phone calls to another person or persons. The events tracked may also include the receiving and sending of short text messages SMS the receiving and sending of enhanced messages EMS or the receiving and sending of multimedia messages MMS . Other events that may be monitored and correlated to the CMCS user profile include downloading games from the CMCS carrier downloading ring tones receiving and sending instant messages IM the receipt of push notifications downloading web pages that may include among other things sports scores weather forecasts stock quotes and movie listings. The movie listings may be localized for the area from the area that CMCS device is being used or from another geographic area. Other events may include viewing advertisements and making purchases. The number of different activities and uses that a CMCS is capable of is continually increasing. The present invention is capable of capturing these future activities and usages events and correlating said events to the profile recorded for the CMCS device s user.

To determine how a CMCS device is used by a person from whom voluntary and permissible profile data has been obtained can be important information to the provider of services for the CMCS industry. Using techniques such as having the user fill out survey forms or keep a written log of phone usage or even sending inquiries via microbrowser enabled web pages are all subject to error due to incompleteness user time constraints or forgetfulness. Although metering software tracking CMCS usage that is embedded in a CMCS operating system OS is well known in the art what is needed is a method of collecting rich and complete profile data from a CMCS device user whereby such collection does not require the use of the CMCS device to input that profile data. The reason to not use a CMCS device to collect the profile data is that a CMCS device is limited in how the interaction experience occurs. But to still be able to maintain the capability of correlating that personal and demographic data of the user to the usage of a particular CMCS device is important even though the user profile information was not obtained by the use of the CMCS device. The presently explained method of capturing a user s profile data via a fully featured web browser making the user s experience less onerous than trying to collect the same rich profile data via the limited capability browsers available in most CMCS devices is unique in the industry. Trying to initially acquire such profile data from the CMCS user using a CMCS device can be time consuming and many times frustrating due to the limitations of interaction often inherent in CMCS devices. These limitations include small viewing screen size small or nonexistent keyboards cost of the cell time used latency of the network and limited information contained in the decks presented to the user. Therefore the need is to have the capability of obtaining rich demographic data from a CMCS device user and being able to seamlessly tie that data to the particular CMCS device whereupon the event activities that the CMCS device is engaged in are captured and related back to that specific user.

The demographic lifestyle and even perhaps psychological profiles of the CMCS user can be easily captured using the present invention. Besides the typical demographic data such as age sex income political affiliation and residence address personal lifestyle data can also be requested such as magazines subscribed to favorite hobbies favorite authors type of vehicle s owned vacations contemplated TV viewing habits and stores shopped at. A third area of inquiry may even include a short psychological questionnaire relating to personality aspects of the CMCS device s user. An example of this aspect is a measure of the user s patience. This may be important to know because the information presented to the CMCS user may be richer and therefore slower to download or briefer and more quickly downloaded.

The ultimate consumers of the correlated personal and demographic data with the usage of the CMCS device may desire that even more profile data be obtained from a segment of the population from whom data has already been collected. By having the email addresses obtained in the course of implementing the present invention of those segments of profiled persons the information consumer is interested in those segments may then be asked additional questions related to the ultimate information consumer s interest.

In accordance with the present invention a method is presented for collecting personal information from a cellular mobile communications system device s user by collecting said personal information including the cellular mobile communications system device s cellular phone number via a form displayed upon a standard web browser of the cellular mobile communications system device s user s computer said form retrieved from the information requesting entity s website. Then by sending a message to the cellular mobile communications system device s cellular phone number addressed to the user said message when responded to causes a downloading of a device metering software module to the cellular mobile communications system s device. When the device returns the message to the information requesting entity s server the message contains the International Mobile Equipment Identifier IMEI number of the cellular mobile communications system device. The device metering software then collects information as to how the user is using the device and that information is transmitted to the collecting entity and cross referenced to the profile data provided by the user thereby giving a correlation between the user s profile data to how the CMCS device is used device event data . This information allows device content providers and device manufacturers valuable insights information on how the device and content is used by certain segments of the population.

Using a flowchart shows the preferred embodiment of the present invention. The user goes to the website set up to collect the user s profile data and fills out a form collecting this data . The data collection server using the cell phone number provided by the user sends a message to the CMCS device . The user replies to the message whereupon the data collection server downloads its event collection software to the CMCS device . The CMCS device now with the software loaded sends to the data collection server a message that includes the cell phone number and a unique device individual identification number . The user s profile data is then associated with the unique individual identification number . Upon meeting a predetermined criteria the embedded software module that has been tracking the various events of the CMCS device transmits that event data back to the data collection server . The event data collected may be then correlated to the profile data collected from the user and analyzed In the rich demographic data is shown as being obtained via use of a standard web browser shown in . The user goes to the standard web browser as found on most desktop and laptop computers and enters the URL Uniform Resource Locater of the personal and demographic data gathering website server as shown in the URL being set up by the entity desiring to correlate CMCS device use to a particular user s personal and demographic profile data. The user fills out personal and demographic data as show in on a webpage form and also provides to the data collection site the CMCS device s cell phone number as is requested. The personal and demographic data may include but is not limited to address income bracket education level age home ownership club or association affiliations sex occupation hobbies sports electronic devices owned potential future purchasing decisions political affiliation. The information may be encrypted or unencrypted and then transmitted to the data collection server either compressed or uncompressed associated with the demographic data gathering URL. The data collection server stores this information in a database which later correlates this profile data to the CMCS s type of events recorded data. Along with the personal and demographic data the database also contains the user s regular Internet email address. This allows update requests to be made to the user via regular email that can contain an embedded link to an updating server. This update server can request and capture personal and demographic data changes that may have occurred since the last user profile survey.

After the CMCS device s user fills out the required personal and demographic data using an encrypted server and confirms permission requested by the data collection server to collect event data from the CMCS device the data collection server then using the cell phone number provided by the user sends a Wireless Application Protocol WAP push message through the WAP gateway over the Internet to the carrier server of the CMCS device and then to the CMCS device as shown in or in the alternative sends a short text message SMS to the CMCS device using the same route. The user then initiates the downloading of a small footprint device event metering software module to the CMCS device by responding to the WAP or SMS message. The device event metering software is then installed in the CMCS device. The now embedded device event metering software captures the CMCS s unique individual identification number and sends an SMS or other type of message containing that number to the server. One type of a CMCS device s unique individual identification number is its IMEI number International Mobile Equipment Identifier . This is a 15 digit number composed of four parts that uniquely identifies an individual wireless device. The IMEI captured by the device event metering software is transmitted by the CMCS device over the cell phone network every time the event data is uploaded to the data collection server. The IMEI number is used to correlate the user s profile to the CMCS device events recorded in the database because the IMEI number is a number integrally associated with the CMCS device. The CMCS device cell phone number is associated with the user s account with the carrier and is often difficult to ascertain. The CMCS device itself may not know its cell number and even when it does know its own number the Application Programming Interface API call to obtain that number may be privileged and only specific carrier approved applications may have access to it. The IMEI number on the other hand is easily accessible via a programmatic interface. Other types of individual unique identifiers of the CMCS device may also be used.

The server then correlates the IMEI number to the rich demographic data stored in the database by matching the CMCS device s cell number that was provided by the user during the demographic data collection to the cell number enclosed in the From address line on the SMS return message. The result is a correlation of the user s rich personal and demographic data to the particular CMCS device and therefore to the events metered and sent to the data collection server during the intervening CMCS device s use since the last upload. shows one method to sort and display one type of personal and demographic data correlated to several types of CMCS device events.

The metering and notification software module besides being self installing has the capability to compress and encrypt the data collected during CSMS device s use. The software is also capable of determining when to download the event data collected to the collection server depending on various selectable criteria such as memory capacity used predetermined time intervals or other triggering events. The preferred embodiment of the present invention downloads the event history to the data collection server following the well known HTTP or HTTPS data transmission protocol. Alternative embodiments of downloading the event data may include the use of SMS messages or email. Every download of event data will include the CMCS device s individual identification number to correlate the CMCS device s events with the user s personal and demographic data.

Although the invention has been described as setting forth specific embodiments thereof the invention is not limited thereto. Changes in the details may be made within the spirit and the scope of the invention said spirit and scope to be construed broadly and not to be limited by specific examples and terminology used.

