---

title: Neuroprotective compounds and their use
abstract: Apocynin derivative compounds, active pharmaceutical ingredients, dosage forms, and methods of use thereof as neuroprotectants in the brain of mammals.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08962600&OS=08962600&RS=08962600
owner: The Medical College of Wisconsin, Inc.
number: 08962600
owner_city: Milwaukee
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100415
---
This Application represents the national stage application of International Application No. PCT US2010 031296 filed Apr. 15 2010 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Application No. 61 172 842 filed Apr. 27 2009 both of which are incorporated by reference herein in their entirety for all purposes.

This invention was funded by the U.S. National Institute of Health under the following grants or contract numbers R01 NS039958 and R01 NS04094. The United States government has certain rights in this invention.

Experimental models of mitochondrial diseases typically involve inhibition of enzymes involved in the electron transport chain 1 . It has been further reported that many neurodegenerative diseases are associated with mitochondrial dysfunction 2 5 . Defects in complexes I II and IV of the mitochondrial respiratory chain have been detected in Alzheimer s Parkinson s Huntington s and Lou Gehrig s diseases 6 9 .

Several lines of evidence implicate that Parkinson s Disease PD is a free radical disease involving mitochondrial dysfunction leading to failure of energy production 10 11 . Increased oxidative damage dopamine depletion protein nitration iron accumulation protein aggregation and apoptosis are characteristic hallmarks of Parkinson s Disease 12 14 .

Numerous antioxidants and iron chelators have been utilized in Parkinson s Disease animal models and patients with little or limited success 15 16 . Apocynin is a naturally occurring methoxy substituted catechol that has been shown to inhibit NADPH oxidase 17 . Apocynin has the structure depicted below 

While the usefulness of various apocynin derivatives has been reported in the literature 2 5 their potential as therapeutic drugs in neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson s disease has not been established.

Another aspect of the invention is a pharmaceutical dosage form comprising the apocynin derivative of Structure 1 and a pharmaceutically suitable carrier system.

Another aspect of the invention is the pharmaceutical dosage form of Structure 1 wherein the dosage form comprises an oral injection infusion inhalation transdermal or implant dosage form.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of increasing the amount of dopamine in the brain of a mammal comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of the apocynin derivative Structure 1.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of increasing the amount of dopac in the mitochondria of a mammalian brain cell comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of the apocynin derivative Structure 1.

Another aspect of the invention is an apocynin derivative according to any one of the following structures 

Another aspect of the invention is a pharmaceutical dosage form comprising at least one of Structures 2 8 and a pharmaceutically suitable carrier system.

Another aspect of the invention is the pharmaceutical dosage form of at least one of Structures 2 8 wherein the dosage form comprises an oral injection infusion inhalation transdermal or implant dosage form.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of increasing the amount of dopamine in the brain of a mammal comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of at least one of Structures 2 8.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of increasing the amount of dopac in the mitochondria of a mammalian brain cell comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of at least one of Structures 2 8.

In one aspect of the methods identified above which relate to increasing the amount of dopamine in the brain of a mammal or the amount of dopac in the mitochondria of a mammalian brain cell Structures 1 8 are orally administered.

Another aspect of the invention is a pharmaceutical dosage form including Structure 9 and a pharmaceutically suitable carrier system.

A further aspect of the invention is the pharmaceutical dosage form of Structure 9 wherein the dosage form comprises an oral injection infusion inhalation transdermal or implant dosage form.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of increasing the amount of dopamine in the brain of a mammal comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of Structure 9.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of increasing the amount of dopac in the mitochondria of a mammalian brain cell comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of Structure 9.

Another aspect of the invention is an apocynin derivative of Structure 10 wherein Ris H COCH or CO CH CH wherein Ris O or NH wherein X is Br wherein n is 2 16 and wherein m is 1 16 or a prodrug salt solvate or hydrate thereof.

In a further aspect of the invention a pharmaceutical dosage form comprises at least one of Structure 10 a derivative thereof and a pharmaceutically suitable carrier system.

Another aspect of the present invention is the pharmaceutical dosage form of Structure 10 or a derivative thereof wherein the dosage form comprises an oral injection infusion inhalation transdermal or implant dosage form.

A further aspect of the present invention is a method of increasing the amount of dopamine in the brain of a mammal comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of Structure 10 or a derivative thereof.

A further aspect of any of the methods herein is that Structure 10 or a derivative thereof is orally administered.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of increasing the amount of dopac in the mitochondria of a mammalian brain cell comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of Structure 10 or derivative thereof.

A further aspect of the invention is a pharmaceutical dosage form comprising Structure 11 and a pharmaceutically suitable carrier system.

Another aspect of the invention is the pharmaceutical dosage form of Structure 11 wherein the dosage form comprises an oral injection infusion inhalation transdermal or implant dosage form.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of increasing the amount of dopamine in the brain of a mammal comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of Structure 11.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of increasing the amount of dopac in the mitochondria of a mammalian brain cell comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of Structure 11.

A further aspect of the invention is a pharmaceutical dosage form comprising Structure 12 and a pharmaceutically suitable carrier system.

Another aspect of the invention is the pharmaceutical dosage form of Structure 12 wherein the dosage form comprises an oral injection infusion inhalation transdermal or implant dosage form.

A further aspect of the invention is a method of increasing the amount of dopamine in the brain of a mammal comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of Structure 12.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of increasing the amount of dopac in the mitochondria of a mammalian brain cell comprising administering a therapeutically effective amount of Structure 12.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of reducing brain inflammation or the effects thereof in a mammal comprising administering to the mammal an effective amount of an apocynin derivative to reduce brain inflammation or the effects thereof relative to an untreated animal with brain inflammation. In this method the apocynin derivative comprises at least one of apocynin diapocynin diapocynin acetate diapocynin diacetate mito apocynin mito diapocynin apocynin acetate mito apocynin acetate mito diapocynin acetate and mito diapocynin diacetate.

Another aspect of the invention is a method of preventing pathophysiological neurotransmitter deficit associated with brain inflammation in a patient comprising administering an effective amount of an apocynin derivative to the patient to prevent pathophysiological neurotransmitter deficit. In this method the apocynin derivative comprises at least one of apocynin diapocynin diapocynin acetate diapocynin diacetate mito apocynin mito diapocynin apocynin acetate mito apocynin acetate mito diapocynin acetate and mito diapocynin diacetate.

Another aspect of the invention is method of preventing a decrease in dopamine levels in the brain of a patient with Parkinson s disease comprising administering an effective amount of an apocynin derivative to the patient to prevent the decrease in dopamine levels. In this method the apocynin derivative comprises at least one of apocynin diapocynin diapocynin acetate diapocynin diacetate mito apocynin mito diapocynin apocynin acetate mito apocynin acetate mito diapocynin acetate and mito diapocynin diacetate.

Another aspect of the present invention is a method of delaying neurodegeneration in a mammal comprising administering an effective amount of an apocynin derivative to the mammal wherein the neurodegeneration is caused by at least one of neural inflammation Huntington s disease Parkinson s disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis multiple sclerosis and Alzheimer s disease and wherein the delay in neurodegeneration postpones the onset or lessens the effect of disease symptoms associated with at least one of neural inflammation Huntington s disease Parkinson s disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis multiple sclerosis and Alzheimer s disease. In this method the apocynin derivative comprises at least one of apocynin diapocynin diapocynin acetate diapocynin diacetate mito apocynin mito diapocynin apocynin acetate mito apocynin acetate mito diapocynin acetate and mito diapocynin diacetate.

Another aspect of the present invention is a method of prolonging motor function in a mammal with a neurodegenerative disease comprising administering an effective amount of an apocynin derivative to the mammal to prolong motor function in the mammal. In this method the apocynin derivative comprises at least one of apocynin diapocynin diapocynin acetate diapocynin diacetate mito apocynin mito diapocynin apocynin acetate mito apocynin acetate mito diapocynin acetate and mito diapocynin diacetate.

As used herein an oral dosage form includes a pharmaceutically suitable oral carrier system an injection dosage form includes a pharmaceutically suitable injection carrier system an infusion dosage form includes a pharmaceutically suitable infusion carrier system an inhalation dosage form includes a pharmaceutically acceptable inhalation carrier system and or a pharmaceutically suitable inhalation device an the transdermal dosage form includes a pharmaceutically suitable transdermal carrier system and or a pharmaceutically suitable transdermal device . Further an implant dosage form includes medical devices for temporary or permanent attachment to or implant within a patient including for example a stent catheter shunt electrode electrical device reservoir or medical implement that is coated impregnated or filled with or that dispenses an apocynin derivative.

The reasons for the death of dopaminergic dopamine producing neuronal cells are not known. Proposed mechanisms include genetic mutation chronic inflammation and exposure to environmental toxicants. It is hypothesized that activation of resident immune cells in the brain called microglia by inflammatory mediators molecules overproduced during inflammation contributes to the death or degeneration of neurons 18 19 . Support for this hypothesis came from postmortem studies on brains taken from PD patients that showed enhanced levels of cytotoxic proinflammatory mediators 18 . Patients who developed PD following the accidental exposure to MPTP a contaminant by product of an illicit narcotic also exhibited activated microglial cells in the substantia nigra 20 . Proinflammatory mediators TNF IL 1 IL 6 were also detected in the cerebrospinal fluid of PD patients 18 . Proinflammatory mediators that activate microglia include cytokines such as the tumor necrosis factor alpha TNF interleukin 1beta IL 1 interleukin 6 IL 6 and interferon gamma chemokines MCP 1 reactive oxygen species ROS and reactive nitrogen species RNS including nitric oxide and oxidants derived from nitric oxide and superoxide oxidative enzymes such as NADPH oxidase cyclooxygenase 2 COX 2 myeloperoxidase and prostaglandins. Oxidative enzymes for example COX 2 and inducible NOS are likely stimulated by proinflammatory cytokines. Similar proinflammatory changes and neuroinflammatory processes were also reproduced in animal models of PD 18 .

Neuroprotective drugs can be broadly classified as agents that can mitigate the effects of brain inflammation including mitochondrial oxidative and nitrosative damage in the brain enhance and or prevent decreases in or deficits in neurotransmitter levels such as for example neuronal dopamine levels or prevent microglial and astroglial activation and inhibit cytokine release in the brain processes associated with neuroinflammation. As a result neuroprotective drugs may inhibit or delay neurodegeneration which in turn may postpone the onset or lessen the effects of neurodegenerative disease symptoms. For example administration of neuroprotectants may prolong motor function in animals with neurodegenerative diseases permitting them to maintain normal or near normal function for longer periods of time compared to convention therapies. Anti inflammatory strategies to reverse neuroinflammation in other neurodegenerative diseases e.g. PD Alzheimer s disease are currently being investigated 21 23 . In light of the apparent connection between many neurodegenerative diseases and mitochondrial dysfunction 2 14 neuroprotective compounds that target mitochondria may prove particularly useful.

Conventional ROS detoxification probes such as Vitamin E tempol ubiquinone do not significantly accumulate within mitochondria so their ability to scavenge mitochondrial ROS superoxide peroxyl radical is limited. It has been reported that antioxidants such as Vitamin E and Coenzyme Q coupled to a triphenylphosphonium cation are accumulated into mitochondria 24 26 . The uptake of such lipophilic membrane permeable cations into cells from the extracellular space is favored by the plasma membrane potential 30 60 mV negative inside . As shown in the large membrane potential of 150 180 mV negative inside across the mitochondrial inner membrane enables the redistribution of lipophilic cations from the intracellular space into the mitochondria. 27 . From the equation membrane potential mV 61.5 log C C it can be estimated that for every 61.5 mV difference in the membrane potential there is a 10 fold increase in the mitochondrial concentration of the lipophilic cations leading to a 100 to 500 fold higher concentration of the cation in the mitochondria than in the cytosol 27 .

An important aspect of the invention is use of the lipophilic cation approach to discover mitochondria targeted nitroxides in neurons subjected to oxidative stress that are capable of restoring dopamine levels in those neurons undergoing oxidative stress. Alkylphosphonium nitroxides have been used to measure transmembrane potentials and membrane dynamics 28 . It was recently reported that alkylphosphonium nitroxide for example Mito CP could be targeted to mitochondria 29 . The selective uptake of Mito CP into the mitochondria was responsible for inhibiting peroxide induced iron signaling oxidative damage and apoptosis in endothelial cells.

The blood brain barrier which separates circulating blood from the cerebral spinal fluid presents a challenge to pharmaceuticals with potentially beneficial effects for the central nervous system. Direct treatment of the cerebral spinal fluid is fraught with difficulties and potential complications while introduction of pharmaceuticals into the circulatory system is routine. Therefore it is more desirable to use compounds that sufficiently pass through the blood brain barrier for treatment of the central nervous system. To this end certain pharmaceuticals may pass through the blood brain barrier if appropriately designed or encapsulated within liposomes. For example long chain hydrocarbon moieties added to therapeutic molecules enable transport across the blood brain barrier. Suitable examples include diacetates succinate maleate or glutarate derivatives and longer chain hydrocarbon substituents. Without wishing to be bound by theory it is likely that apocynin derivatives are taken up through specific receptors in the brain for example dopaminergic receptor amino acid and glucose transporters .

High concentrations of apocynin a plant derived antioxidant have been shown to protect against neuronal damage in SOD1 mutant ALS mice model 5 . The instant invention contemplates that mitochondria targeted apocynin might be effective in mitigating mitochondrial damage. Moreover the instant invention contemplates the use of apocynin derivatives to combat inflammation including neural inflammation as well as Huntington s disease Parkinson s disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis multiple sclerosis Alzheimer s disease stroke and diseases and or injuries that promote or lead to oxidation related sequelae.

Apocynin derivatives include apocynin and functional derivations thereof. For example apocynin derivatives include diapocynin mito apocynin mito diapocynin apocynin acetate apocynin diacetate mito apocynin acetate mito apocynin diacetate mito diapocynin acetate and mito diapocynin diacetate and as defined otherwise herein. Additional apocynin derivatives include acetates diacetates diglutarates and diadepates for example diapocynin diacetates diglutarates and diadepates. In another embodiment nanoparticulates of diapocynin and derivatives are contemplated.

Epidemiological studies strongly suggest a link between pesticides that are mitochondrial toxins and the etiology of Parkinson s Disease 10 . One of the frequently used animal models of Parkinson s Disease is the 1 methyl 4 phenyl 1 2 3 6 tetrahydropyridine MPTP model 30 31 . MPTP was initially discovered as a contaminant of an illicit narcotic and it has been reported to induce Parkinson like symptoms in experimental animals 32 34 .

Although the MPTP model of PD differs from idiopathic PD there are many biochemical and pathological similarities 34 40 . Selective destruction of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra of the brain has also been reported 38 .

The ultimate toxic metabolite of MPTP was determined to be 1 methyl 4 phenylpyridinium MPP see which is accumulated selectively by neurons expressing the dopamine transporter DAT including the dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra. MPP impairs mitochondrial function by inhibiting complex I activity of the electron transport chain 41 43 . Systemic inhibition of complex I was shown to cause Parkinsonism reproducing the features of PD 44 46 . Moreover MPTP causes decreased mitochondrial complex I activity increased reactive oxygen species ROS depletion of antioxidants and activation of apoptotic signaling including mitogen activated protein MAP kinases 31 42 47 and 48 .

The MPTP C57 black mouse model is accepted as the best preclinical model of PD 49 . Although the MPTP monkey model is often used for testing the efficacies of new therapies for PD the MPTP mouse model is a reliable cost effective model for probing the effectiveness of new therapies.

Although various MPTP treatment protocols have been reported essentially two dosing regimens are well characterized. The acute model of MPTP 15 mg kg MPTP administered intraperitoneally four times at 2 hr intervals induces a stable and highly reproducible dopamine deficit but also severe overt toxicity. The subchronic or subacute model induces substantial apoptotic cell death without significant necrotic cell death using MPTP dose ranges that may vary from 18 30 mg kg. In the subchronic model mice received MPTP 20 mg kg body weight once a day for 5 days . Finally the chronic MPTP mouse model mimics PD where the nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons undergo destruction in a slow and progressive manner as occurs in idiopathic PD. In the chronic model mice were administered with MPTP 25 mg kg twice week intraperitoneally and probenecid 250 mg kg to prevent excretion for 5 weeks.

In general the instant invention is directed to new chemical entities NCEs being active pharmaceutical ingredients APIs pharmaceutical compositions dosage forms and method of making thereof. The invention also includes methods of using the APIs pharmaceutical compositions and dosage forms thereof for use as neuroprotectants by increasing the amounts of dopamine and dopac in the brain and mitochondria of a mammal. The instant NCEs and APIs include apocynin derivatives including for example mito apocynin derivative compounds and dimer mito apocynin derivative compounds.

As used herein salts of the instant compound may be a pharmaceutically suitable i.e. pharmaceutically acceptable salt including but not limited to acid addition salts formed by mixing a solution of the instant compound with a solution of a pharmaceutically acceptable acid. The pharmaceutically acceptable acid may be hydrochloric acid methanesulphonic acid fumaric acid maleic acid succinic acid acetic acid benzoic acid oxalic acid citric acid tartaric acid carbonic acid or phosphoric acid. Various pharmaceutically acceptable salts are well known in the art and may be used with the instant compound such as those previously disclosed 50 51 . For example the list of FDA approved commercially marketed salts includes acetate benzenesulfonate benzoate bicarbonate bitartrate bromide calcium edetate camsylate carbonate chloride citrate dihydrochloride edetate edisylate estolate esylate fumarate gluceptate gluconate glutamate glycollylarsanilate hexylresorcinate hydrabamine hydrobromide hydrochloride hydroxynaphthoate iodide isethionate lactate lactobionate malate maleate mandelate mesylate methylbromide methylnitrate methylsulfate mucate napsylate mitrate pamoate pantothenate phosphate diphosphate polygalacturonate salicylate stearate subacetate succinate sulfate tannate tartrate teoclate and triethiodide.

As used herein hydrates of the instant compound may be a pharmaceutically suitable i.e. pharmaceutically acceptable hydrate that is a compound formed by the addition of water or its elements to a host molecule for example the free form version of the compound including but not limited to monohydrates dihydrates etc.

As used herein solvates of the instant compound may be a pharmaceutically suitable i.e. pharmaceutically acceptable solvate whereby solvation is an interaction of a solute with the solvent which leads to stabilization of the solute species in the solution and whereby the solvated state is an ion in a solution complexed by solvent molecules. Solvates and hydrates may also be referred to as analogues. 

As used herein prodrugs are compounds that are pharmacologically inert but are converted by enzyme or chemical action to an active form of the drug i.e. an active pharmaceutical ingredient at or near the predetermined target site. In other words prodrugs are inactive compounds that yield an active compound upon metabolism in the body which may or may not be enzymatically controlled. Prodrugs may also be broadly classified into two groups bioprecursor and carrier prodrugs. Prodrugs may also be subclassified according to the nature of their action. Bioprecursor prodrugs are compounds that already contain the embryo of the active species within their structure whereby the active species are produced upon metabolism.

Carrier prodrugs are formed by combining the active drug with a carrier species forming a compound having desirable chemical and biological characteristics whereby the link is an ester or amide so that the carrier prodrug is easily metabolized upon absorption or delivery to the target site. For example lipophilic moieties may be incorporated to improve transport through membranes. Carrier prodrugs linked by a functional group to carrier are referred to as bipartite prodrugs. Prodrugs where the carrier is linked to the drug by a separate structure are referred to as tripartite prodrugs whereby the carrier is removed by an enzyme controlled metabolic process and whereby the linking structure is removed by an enzyme system or by a chemical reaction 52 53 .

The phrase hydroxy protecting group refers to any suitable group such as tert butyloxy carbonyl t BOC and t butyl dimethyl silyl TBS . Other hydroxy protecting groups contemplated are known in the art 54 .

The pharmaceutically suitable oral carrier systems also referred to as drug delivery systems which are modern technology distributed with or as a part of a drug product that allows for the uniform release or targeting of drugs to the body preferably include FDA approved and or USP approved inactive ingredients. Under 21 CFR 210.3 b 8 an inactive ingredient is any component of a drug product other than the active ingredient. According to 21 CFR 210.3 b 7 an active ingredient is any component of a drug product intended to furnish pharmacological activity or other direct effect in the diagnosis cure mitigation treatment or prevention of disease or to affect the structure or any function of the body of humans or other animals. Active ingredients include those components of the product that may undergo chemical change during the manufacture of the drug product and be present in the drug product in a modified form intended to furnish the specified activity or effect. As used herein a kit also referred to as a dosage form is a packaged collection of related material.

As used herein the oral dosage form includes capsules a solid oral dosage form consisting of a shell and a filling whereby the shell is composed of a single sealed enclosure or two halves that fit together and which are sometimes sealed with a band and whereby capsule shells may be made from gelatin starch or cellulose or other suitable materials may be soft or hard and are filled with solid or liquid ingredients that can be poured or squeezed capsule or coated pellets solid dosage form in which the drug is enclosed within either a hard or soft soluble container or shell made from a suitable form of gelatin the drug itself is in the form of granules to which varying amounts of coating have been applied capsule coated extended release a solid dosage form in which the drug is enclosed within either a hard or soft soluble container or shell made from a suitable form of gelatin additionally the capsule is covered in a designated coating and which releases a drug or drugs in such a manner to allow at least a reduction in dosing frequency as compared to that drug or drugs presented as a conventional dosage form capsule delayed release a solid dosage form in which the drug is enclosed within either a hard or soft soluble container made from a suitable form of gelatin and which releases a drug or drugs at a time other than promptly after administration whereby enteric coated articles are delayed release dosage forms capsule delayed release pellets solid dosage form in which the drug is enclosed within either a hard or soft soluble container or shell made from a suitable form of gelatin the drug itself is in the form of granules to which enteric coating has been applied thus delaying release of the drug until its passage into the intestines capsule extended release a solid dosage form in which the drug is enclosed within either a hard or soft soluble container made from a suitable form of gelatin and which releases a drug or drugs in such a manner to allow a reduction in dosing frequency as compared to that drug or drugs presented as a conventional dosage form capsule film coated extended release a solid dosage form in which the drug is enclosed within either a hard or soft soluble container or shell made from a suitable form of gelatin additionally the capsule is covered in a designated film coating and which releases a drug or drugs in such a manner to allow at least a reduction in dosing frequency as compared to that drug or drugs presented as a conventional dosage form capsule gelatin coated a solid dosage form in which the drug is enclosed within either a hard or soft soluble container made from a suitable form of gelatin through a banding process the capsule is coated with additional layers of gelatin so as to form a complete seal and capsule liquid filled a solid dosage form in which the drug is enclosed within a soluble gelatin shell which is plasticized by the addition of a polyol such as sorbitol or glycerin and is therefore of a somewhat thicker consistency than that of a hard shell capsule typically the active ingredients are dissolved or suspended in a liquid vehicle .

Oral dosage forms contemplated herein also include granules a small particle or grain pellet a small sterile solid mass consisting of a highly purified drug with or without excipients made by the formation of granules or by compression and molding pellets coated extended release a solid dosage form in which the drug itself is in the form of granules to which varying amounts of coating have been applied and which releases a drug or drugs in such a manner to allow a reduction in dosing frequency as compared to that drug or drugs presented as a conventional dosage form pill a small round solid dosage form containing a medicinal agent intended for oral administration powder an intimate mixture of dry finely divided drugs and or chemicals that may be intended for internal or external use elixir a clear pleasantly flavored sweetened hydroalcoholic liquid containing dissolved medicinal agents it is intended for oral use chewing gum a sweetened and flavored insoluble plastic material of various shapes which when chewed releases a drug substance into the oral cavity or syrup an oral solution containing high concentrations of sucrose or other sugars the term has also been used to include any other liquid dosage form prepared in a sweet and viscid vehicle including oral suspensions .

Oral dosage forms contemplated herein may further include a tablet a solid dosage form containing medicinal substances with or without suitable diluents tablet chewable a solid dosage form containing medicinal substances with or without suitable diluents that is intended to be chewed producing a pleasant tasting residue in the oral cavity that is easily swallowed and does not leave a bitter or unpleasant after taste tablet coated a solid dosage form that contains medicinal substances with or without suitable diluents and is covered with a designated coating tablet coated particles a solid dosage form containing a conglomerate of medicinal particles that have each been covered with a coating tablet delayed release a solid dosage form which releases a drug or drugs at a time other than promptly after administration whereby enteric coated articles are delayed release dosage forms tablet delayed release particles a solid dosage form containing a conglomerate of medicinal particles that have been covered with a coating which releases a drug or drugs at a time other than promptly after administration whereby enteric coated articles are delayed release dosage forms tablet dispersible a tablet that prior to administration is intended to be placed in liquid where its contents will be distributed evenly throughout that liquid whereby term tablet dispersible is no longer used for approved drug products and it has been replaced by the term tablet for suspension tablet effervescent a solid dosage form containing mixtures of acids for example citric acid tartaric acid and sodium bicarbonate which release carbon dioxide when dissolved in water whereby it is intended to be dissolved or dispersed in water before administration tablet extended release a solid dosage form containing a drug which allows at least a reduction in dosing frequency as compared to that drug presented in conventional dosage form tablet film coated a solid dosage form that contains medicinal substances with or without suitable diluents and is coated with a thin layer of a water insoluble or water soluble polymer tablet film coated extended release a solid dosage form that contains medicinal substances with or without suitable diluents and is coated with a thin layer of a water insoluble or water soluble polymer the tablet is formulated in such manner as to make the contained medicament available over an extended period of time following ingestion tablet for solution a tablet that forms a solution when placed in a liquid tablet for suspension a tablet that forms a suspension when placed in a liquid which is formerly referred to as a dispersible tablet tablet multilayer a solid dosage form containing medicinal substances that have been compressed to form a multiple layered tablet or a tablet within a tablet the inner tablet being the core and the outer portion being the shell tablet multilayer extended release a solid dosage form containing medicinal substances that have been compressed to form a multiple layered tablet or a tablet within a tablet the inner tablet being the core and the outer portion being the shell which additionally is covered in a designated coating the tablet is formulated in such manner as to allow at least a reduction in dosing frequency as compared to that drug presented as a conventional dosage form tablet orally disintegrating a solid dosage form containing medicinal substances which disintegrates rapidly usually within a matter of seconds when placed upon the tongue tablet orally disintegrating delayed release a solid dosage form containing medicinal substances which disintegrates rapidly usually within a matter of seconds when placed upon the tongue but which releases a drug or drugs at a time other than promptly after administration tablet soluble a solid dosage form that contains medicinal substances with or without suitable diluents and possesses the ability to dissolve in fluids tablet sugar coated a solid dosage form that contains medicinal substances with or without suitable diluents and is coated with a colored or an uncolored water soluble sugar osmotic and the like.

The oral dosage form composition contains an active pharmaceutical ingredient and may contain one or more inactive pharmaceutical ingredients such as diluents solubilizers alcohols binders controlled release polymers enteric polymers disintegrants excipients colorants flavorants sweeteners antioxidants preservatives pigments additives fillers suspension agents surfactants for example anionic cationic amphoteric and nonionic and the like. Various FDA approved topical inactive ingredients are found at the FDA s The Inactive Ingredients Database that contains inactive ingredients specifically intended as such by the manufacturer whereby inactive ingredients can also be considered active ingredients under certain circumstances according to the definition of an active ingredient given in 21 CFR 210.3 b 7 . Alcohol is a good example of an ingredient that may be considered either active or inactive depending on the product formulation.

As used herein injection and infusion dosage forms i.e. parenteral dosage forms include but are not limited to the following. Liposomal injection includes or forms liposomes or a lipid bilayer vesicle having phospholipids that encapsulate an active drug substance. Injection includes a sterile preparation intended for parenteral use.

Five distinct classes of injections exist as defined by the USP. Emulsion injection includes an emulsion comprising a sterile pyrogen free preparation intended to be administered parenterally. Lipid complex and powder for solution injection are sterile preparations intended for reconstitution to form a solution for parenteral use.

Powder for suspension injection is a sterile preparation intended for reconstitution to form a suspension for parenteral use. Powder lyophilized for liposomal suspension injection is a sterile freeze dried preparation intended for reconstitution for parenteral use that is formulated in a manner allowing incorporation of liposomes such as a lipid bilayer vesicle having phospholipids used to encapsulate an active drug substance within a lipid bilayer or in an aqueous space whereby the formulation may be formed upon reconstitution. Powder lyophilized for solution injection is a dosage form intended for the solution prepared by lyophilization freeze drying whereby the process involves removing water from products in a frozen state at extremely low pressures and whereby subsequent addition of liquid creates a solution that conforms in all respects to the requirements for injections. Powder lyophilized for suspension injection is a liquid preparation intended for parenteral use that contains solids suspended in a suitable fluid medium and it conforms in all respects to the requirements for Sterile Suspensions whereby the medicinal agents intended for the suspension are prepared by lyophilization.

Solution injection involves a liquid preparation containing one or more drug substances dissolved in a suitable solvent or mixture of mutually miscible solvents that is suitable for injection. Solution concentrate injection involves a sterile preparation for parenteral use that upon addition of suitable solvents yields a solution conforming in all respects to the requirements for injections. Suspension injection involves a liquid preparation suitable for injection containing solid particles dispersed throughout a liquid phase whereby the particles are insoluble and whereby an oil phase is dispersed throughout an aqueous phase or vice versa. Suspension liposomal injection is a liquid preparation suitable for injection having an oil phase dispersed throughout an aqueous phase in such a manner that liposomes a lipid bilayer vesicle usually containing phospholipids used to encapsulate an active drug substance either within a lipid bilayer or in an aqueous space are formed. Suspension sonicated injection is a liquid preparation suitable for injection containing solid particles dispersed throughout a liquid phase whereby the particles are insoluble. In addition the product may be sonicated as a gas is bubbled through the suspension resulting in the formation of microspheres by the solid particles.

The parenteral carrier system includes one or more pharmaceutically suitable excipients such as solvents and co solvents solubilizing agents wetting agents suspending agents thickening agents emulsifying agents chelating agents buffers pH adjusters antioxidants reducing agents antimicrobial preservatives bulking agents protectants tonicity adjusters and special additives.

As used herein inhalation dosage forms include but are not limited to aerosol being a product that is packaged under pressure and contains therapeutically active ingredients that are released upon activation of an appropriate valve system intended for topical application to the skin as well as local application into the nose nasal aerosols mouth lingual and sublingual aerosols or lungs inhalation aerosols . Inhalation dosage forms further include foam aerosol being a dosage form containing one or more active ingredients surfactants aqueous or nonaqueous liquids and the propellants whereby if the propellant is in the internal discontinuous phase i.e. of the oil in water type a stable foam is discharged and if the propellant is in the external continuous phase i.e. of the water in oil type a spray or a quick breaking foam is discharged. Inhalation dosage forms also include metered aerosol being a pressurized dosage form consisting of metered dose valves which allow for the delivery of a uniform quantity of spray upon each activation powder aerosol being a product that is packaged under pressure and contains therapeutically active ingredients in the form of a powder that are released upon activation of an appropriate valve system and aerosol spray being an aerosol product which utilizes a compressed gas as the propellant to provide the force necessary to expel the product as a wet spray and being applicable to solutions of medicinal agents in aqueous solvents.

 Pharmaceutically suitable inhalation carrier systems include pharmaceutically suitable inactive ingredients known in the art for use in various inhalation dosage forms such as but not limited to aerosol propellants for example hydrofluoroalkane propellants surfactants additives suspension agents solvents stabilizers and the like.

As used herein a transdermal dosage form includes but is not limited to a patch being a drug delivery system that often contains an adhesive backing that is usually applied to an external site on the body whereby the ingredients either passively diffuse from or are actively transported from some portion of the patch and whereby depending upon the patch the ingredients are either delivered to the outer surface of the body or into the body and other various types of transdermal patches such as matrix reservoir and others known in the art. The pharmaceutically suitable transdermal carrier system includes pharmaceutically suitable inactive ingredients known in the art for use in various transdermal dosage forms such as but not limited to solvents adhesives diluents additives permeation enhancing agents surfactants emulsifiers liposomes and the like.

An effective dose of a compound contemplated herein will generally be any amount that has a beneficial physiologically effect on a patient. In one embodiment an EC50 value for a patient of a compound contemplated herein may range from 30 M 10 to 600 M 10 or about 4 10 fold 1 2 fold of an effective in vitro value in a physiologically relevant model.

The synthesis of Mito apocynin and Mito apocyninacetate involves the coupling of acetylvanillic acid chloride with triphenyl 2 aminoethylphosphoniumbromide resulting in mito apocyninacetate that is hydrolyzed to mito apocynin. The synthetic schemes for Mito apocynin and Mito apocyninacetate are depicted in .

Vanillic acid 10 g was heated at 60 C. for one hour with 10 ml acetic anhydride containing 2 3 drops of concentrated sulfuric acid. The hot mixture was poured into 100 ml ice cold water and extracted with 2 5 ml ether. The ether extract was dried and solvent removed and finally dried on a vacuum line to obtain quantitative yield of acetyl vanillic acid as a dull white solid.

The above compound was suspended in 50 ml dry benzene and 10 ml of thionyl chloride was added. The mixture was refluxed for one hour. The solvent was removed from the solution by rotary evaporation 20 ml more benzene was added and again the solvent removed. Finally the residue was dried on a vacuum line to obtain a light brown semisolid. This moisture sensitive acid chloride was used in the coupling reaction.

Triphenylphosphine 13 g 0.05 mole and 2 bromoethylamine hydrobromide 10.25 g 0.05 mole were stirred under reflux in 100 ml of n propanol for 72 hr in nitrogen atmosphere. The white solid formed was filtered after cooling. The residue was washed repeatedly with dry ether and dried on a vacuum line. The product was dissolved in 50 ml water and filtered. Dilute ammonia was added to the solution until the pH reached 9.0. The free amine was extracted with dichloromethane 3 50 ml . The organic layer was collected and dried over anhydrous magnesium sulfate and solvent removed and finally dried on a vacuum line. Purity was ascertained by HPLC and LC MS mass 306 .

2 aminoethyl triphenylphosphonium bromide 3.86 g 0.01 mole was dissolved in 50 ml dry dichloromethane and to this 2 g of pyridine was added. This solution was kept stirred in an ice bath. To the stirred solution a solution of acetylvanillic acid chloride 2.28 g 0.01 mole in 20 ml dichloromethane was added in drops over a half hour period. The solution was then stirred overnight at room temperature. The solution was shaken with a saturated solution of sodium bicarbonate to remove any acid and then shaken with 0.1 M hydrochloric acid to remove any basic compounds. The organic layer was collected dried and solvent removed to obtain a light brown semisolid. This intermediate product Mito Apocyninacetate was isolated and purified by dissolution in dichloromethane and precipitation from ether several times. Purity was confirmed by HPLC and LC MS mass 498 .

The protective acetyl group was removed by dissolving the product in 25 ml methanol and stirring at room temperature with 5 ml aqueous solution of 1 g NaOH for 1 hr. The deacetylated compound was recovered by acidifying with dilute HCl until pH was 3.0 and extracting with dichloromethane. Removal of solvent produced a semisolid which was purified by dissolving the semisolid in 10 ml dichloromethane and adding the solution to 100 ml of dry ether while being stirred. The precipitated product was collected by decanting and the ether was removed completely. This process of purification by precipitation was repeated two more times and the product finally dried on a vacuum line to obtain a dull white powder. Purity of mito apocynin was ascertained by HPLC and LC MS mass 456 . The final yield was 50 .

Apocynin and apocynin analogues exhibit potent neuroprotective properties 55 . Administration of apocynin 300 mg kg markedly enhanced the lifespan of G93A mice a well known rodent model of ALS 5 and 55 .

Although apocynin and related analogues for example vanillin inhibit NADPH oxidase activity thereby quenching superoxide formation these compounds also exhibit antioxidant properties 3 . The triphenylphosphonium conjugated apocynin analogue Mito apocynin acts as a potent mitochondrial targeted antioxidant MTA . The nigrostriative dopaminergic neurons undergo destruction in a slow and progressive manner in idiopathic PD. In order to mimic this condition in a preclinical mouse model a subchronic MPTP mouse model was developed. The mouse model used here was similar to that used in Example 3 below.

Mice were treated with Mito apocynin 3 mg kg oral gavage for 1 day followed by subchronic MPTP 20 mg kg i.p. administration for 5 days. Animals were sacrificed 7 days after the last dose of MPTP Mito apocynin was administered during the 7 days . Striatal neurotransmitters dopamine dopac were analyzed by HPLC EC. Similar experiments were performed with apocynin 20 mg kg oral gavage lower doses were also tested but not effective . As shown in Mito apocynin but not apocynin almost completely protected against subchronic MPTP induced depletion of striatal dopamine and dopac levels at the concentration used in these experiments.

As PD onset is characterized by striatal dopamine deficiency the existing therapy involves the administration of L dopa to PD patients. However L dopa therapy is associated with toxic side effects including hepatotoxicity and dyskinesia. The instant invention demonstrates that mitigating mitochondrial damage using MTAs is beneficial by restoring dopamine levels in the striatum. The instant MTAs mitigate dopamine loss in the animal model of PD. Further the use of MTAs may mitigate cytotoxicity associated with L dopa therapy.

Six to 8 week old C57BL 6 mice weighing 24 to 28 g were housed in standard conditions of constant temperature 22 1 C. humidity relative 30 and a 12 h light dark cycle. Mice were allowed free access to food and water. Use of the animals and protocol procedures were approved and supervised by the Committee on Animal Care at Iowa State University Ames Iowa . For neurodegeneration studies mice either received diapocynin 300 mg kg dose by oral gavage for 1 day pre treatment before MPTP administration 5 days co treatment with MPTP or 7 days post treatment after MPTP .

For checking inflammatory and oxidative stress markers mice were gavaged diapocynin 300 mg kg dose 1 day before MPTP treatment pre treatment and continued for another 4 days of co treatment with MPTP. In the sub acute MPTP regimen MPTP 25 mg kg was injected intraperitoneally once per day from day 2 to day 7. Control mice received saline at the same dosage.

Striatal dopamine DA DOPAC and HVA levels were quantified by high performance liquid chromatography HPLC with electrochemical detection. Samples were prepared and quantified as described previously 48 56 . In brief 7 days after MPTP injection mice were sacrificed striata were collected and stored at 80 C. On the day of analysis neurotransmitters from striatal tissues were extracted using an antioxidant extraction solution 0.1 M perchloric acid containing 0.05 NaEDTA and 0.1 NaSO and isoproterenol as an internal standard . The extracts were filtered in 0.22 m spin tubes and 20 l of the samples were loaded for analysis. DA DOPAC and HVA were separated isocratically on a reversed phase column with a flow rate of 0.6 ml min. An HPLC system with an automatic sampler equipped with refrigerated temperature control model 542 ESA Inc. Bedford Mass. was used for HPLC analysis. The electrochemical detection system consisted of a Coulochem model 5100A ESA Inc. with a microanalysis cell model 5014A ESA Inc. and a guard cell model 5020 ESA Inc. . The data acquisition and analysis were performed using the EZStart HPLC Software ESA Inc. .

Four days after MPTP treatment mice were perfused with 4 paraformaldehyde PFA and post fixed with PFA and 30 sucrose respectively. Next fixed brains were cut into 30 m sections and kept in 30 sucrose ethylene glycol solutions at 20 C. On the day of staining sections were rinsed with phosphate buffered saline PBS and incubated with different primary antibodies including anti IBA 1 DAKO Carpinteria Calif. anti GFAP Millipore Billerica Mass. anti iNOS Santa Cruz Biotechnology Santa Cruz Calif. anti 3NT Millipore anti 4HNE R D Systems Minneapolis Minn. and anti gp91phox Santa Cruz Biotechnology for overnight at 4 C. Appropriate secondary antibodies Alexa Fluor 488 594 or 555 from Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. were used followed by incubation with 10 g ml Hoechst 33342 for 5 min at room temperature to stain the nucleus. Sections were viewed under a Nikon inverted fluorescence microscope model TE 2000U Nikon Tokyo Japan . Images were captured with a SPOT digital camera Diagnostic Instruments Inc. Sterling Heights Mich. .

DAB immunostaining was performed in striatal and substantia nigra sections as described previously 57 . In brief 1 day or 7 days after final dosing of MPTP mice were sacrificed and perfused with 4 PFA and post fixed with PFA and 30 sucrose respectively. Next fixed brains were cut into 30 m sections and kept in 30 sucrose ethylene glycol solutions at 20 C. On the day of staining sections were rinsed with PBS and incubated with either anti TH rabbit anti mouse 1 1800 Calbiochem Gibstown N.J. anti IBA 1 goat anti mouse 1 1000 Dako anti GFAP mouse anti mouse 1 1000 Millipore Billerica Mass. or anti gp91phox mouse anti mouse 1 500 Santa Cruz Biotechnology overnight at 4 C. Next sections were incubated in biotinylated anti rabbit goat or mouse secondary antibodies for 1.5 hr at room temperature. The sections were then incubated with avidin peroxidase Vectastatin ABC Elite kit Vector Labs Burlingame Calif. for 30 min at room temperature. Immunolabeling was observed using diaminobenzidine DAB which yielded a brown stain.

Mice were sacrificed 4 days or 7 days after MPTP treatment and substantia nigra tissue was dissected out. Brain lysates containing equal amounts of protein were loaded in each lane and separated on a 10 to 12 SDS polyacrylamide gel as described previously 48 . After the separation proteins were transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane and nonspecific binding sites were blocked by treating with Li Cor Odyssey blocking buffer Li Cor Biosciences Lincoln Nebr. . The membranes were then incubated with different primary antibodies including anti TH Millipore anti iNOS Calbiochem anti 3NT Millipore and anti 4HNE R D Systems . Next membranes were incubated with Alexa Fluor 680 goat anti mouse or Alexa Fluor 680 donkey anti goat Invitrogen or IR dye 800 donkey anti rabbit secondary antibodies Rockland Immunochemicals Gilbertsville Pa. . To confirm equal protein loading blots were reprobed with a actin antibody 1 5000 dilution . Western blot images were captured with a Li Cor Odyssey machine Li COR Biosciences .

FLUORO JADE B and tyrosine hydroxylase TH double labeling was performed in substantia nigra sections as described previously 58 . In brief 7 days after the final MPTP injection mice were sacrificed and perfused with 4 PFA and post fixed with PFA and 30 sucrose respectively. Fixed brains were cut into 30 m sections and kept in 30 sucrose ethylene glycol solutions at 20 C. On the day of staining sections were rinsed with PBS and incubated with anti TH antibody Millipore mouse monoclonal dilution 1 1600 followed by Alexa Fluor 568 donkey anti mouse secondary antibody Invitrogen . FLUORO JADE B staining was done on the same sections by modified FLUORO JADE B stain protocol including incubation of 0.06 potassium permanganate for 2 min and 0.0002 FLUORO JADE B stain for 5 min. Sections were viewed under a Nikon inverted fluorescence microscope model TE 2000U . Images were captured with a SPOT digital camera Diagnostic Instruments Inc. .

Two types of behavioral tests were performed including an Open Field experiment for testing locomotor activities and a Rotarod experiment to test coordination of movement of mice after MPTP and diapocynin treatment 48 56 . An Open Field activity monitor model RXYZCM 16 AccuScan Columbus Ohio was used to measure the spontaneous activity of mice. The activity chamber was 40 40 30.5 cm made of clear PLEXIGLAS and covered with a PLEXIGLAS lid with holes for ventilation. Infrared monitoring sensors were located every 2.54 cm along the perimeter 16 infrared beams along each side and 2.5 cm above the floor. Two additional sets of 16 sensors were located 8.0 cm above the floor on opposite sides. Data were collected and analyzed by a VersaMax Analyzer model CDA 8 AccuScan . Before treatment mice were placed inside the infrared monitor for 10 min daily and 5 min daily for 3 consecutive days to train them. Five days after the last MPTP injection Open Field and Rotarod experiments were conducted. Locomotor activities were presented as horizontal movement and vertical movement for 10 min test sessions. For Rotarod experiments a 20 rpm speed was used. Mice were given a 5 7 min rest interval to eliminate stress and fatigue.

Recent research demonstrates that activation of glial cells is a pathological hallmark in Parkinson s disease PD and other neurodegenerative disorders 56 57 and 59 60 . Consistent with these findings increased expression of IBA 1 marker of microglia and GFAP marker of astrocytes were observed in substantia nigra of MPTP treated mice panels A D . Higher magnification panels B and D showed increased microgliosis amoeboid shape and increased morphology and astrogliosis increased expression and increased morphology with MPTP treatment. Treatment of MPTP intoxicated mice with diapocynin led to the inhibition of IBA 1 and GFAP protein expression in substantia nigra panels A D . These results indicate that diapocynin reduces increased activation of glial cells in MPTP treated mice.

Oxidative stress and neuroinflammation have been implicated in the pathogenesis of PD. Accordingly increased expression of NADPH oxidase in human PD brain and in MPTP induced mouse midbrain have been demonstrated 61 . Similarly here increased expression of gp91phox was found in substantia nigra tissue of MPTP treated mice by Western blot analysis panel A and by DAB immunostaining panel B . However diapocynin treatment attenuated MPTP induced expression of gp91phox in substantia nigra panels A B . DAB immunostaining of gp91phox panel B in MPTP treated cells shows robust cells with thick shorter ramification expressing gp91phox. In contrast the control and MPTP and diapocynin treated sections demonstrated mild immunoreactivity. Double labeling of IBA 1 and gp91phox demonstrated that gp91phox colocalized with IBA 1 positive cells in MPTP treated mice whereas no colocalization was found in mice treated with MPTP and diapocynin panel C . These results show that diapocynin blocks MPTP induced gp91phox activation in microglial cells.

Protein nitration due to oxidative and nitrative stress has been linked to the pathogenesis of PD and observed in the MPTP model of PD. In oxidative stress conditions superoxide reacts with nitric oxide and forms peroxynitrite a potent oxidant that selectively nitrates tyrosine residues and generates 3 nitrotyrosine 3 NT which has been widely used as a marker of nitric oxide dependent oxidative stress. Here increased expression of 3 NT in substantia nigra of MPTP treated mice was found panels A and B . Moreover diapocynin attenuated MPTP induced expression of 3 NT in substantia nigra panels A and B .

Next we speculated that dopaminergic neurons also express 3 NT. Double labeling immunostaining of tyrosine hydroxylase TH a marker for dopaminergic neurons and 3 NT revealed that 3 NT colocalized mainly with TH positive neurons in substantia nigra regions of MPTP treated mice. However very few TH positive cells colocalized with 3 NT in MPTP treated mice that also received diapocynin panel C . The reduction of 3 NT formation indicates that diapocynin prevents protein oxidation induced by MPTP in dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra.

4 hydroxynonenol 4 HNE is a major product of unsaturated aldehyde formed during lipid peroxidation and is widely used as a marker of membrane lipid peroxidation induced by hydroxyl radicals 62 . It has been found that 4 HNE mediates neuronal apoptosis in the presence of oxidative stress 63 . Previous reports also have shown that 4 HNE is a good marker of oxidative damage in PD 64 . Here increased expression of 4 HNE was demonstrated in the substantia nigra of MPTP treated mice by Western blot and immunostaining panels A and B . However diapocynin attenuated the MPTP induced increase in expression of 4 HNE in substantia nigra panels A and B .

Double label immunostaining also demonstrated that TH positive dopaminergic neurons strongly expressed 4 HNE in substantia nigra regions of MPTP treated mice. In contrast MPTP and diapocynin treated mice showed very few colocalized cells of TH and 4 HNE in substantia nigra panel C . These results indicate that diapocynin suppresses the expression of 4 HNE in dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra of MPTP intoxicated mice.

Diapocynin Inhibits the Expression of Inducible Nitric Oxide Synthase in the Substantia Nigra of MPTP Treated Mice.

Various researchers have demonstrated the role of inflammation associated with PD neurodegeneration in animal models 65 66 . Here the expression level of inducible nitric oxide synthase iNOS NOS2 was measured in the substantia nigra of mice by Western blot and immunostaining to assess MPTP induced inflammation. An increased expression level of iNOS was observed in the substantia nigra of MPTP treated mice when compared to saline treated control mice panels A and B . Further increased iNOS colocalization with IBA 1 positive microglia and GFAP positive astrocytes were observed in MPTP treated mice panels A and B .

However a marked decrease in staining of iNOS in MPTP treated mice that also received diapocynin was observed panels A and B . Further and consistent with our findings from that show that diapocynin attenuated MPTP induced expression of IBA 1 and GFAP very few colocalized cells of either iNOS and IBA 1 or iNOS and GFAP were observed in the substantia nigra of MPTP treated mice that also received diapocynin panels A and B . These results demonstrate the effectiveness of diapocynin as an anti inflammatory agent against MPTP induced inflammatory reactions and its potential as a neuroprotective anti inflammatory agent in patients with PD.

In order to assess the effectiveness of diapocynin against motor deficits induced by MPTP locomotor activities were measured in control MPTP treated and MPTP and diapocynin treated mice. Versa Plot representative maps of control MPTP and MPTP and diapocynin treated mice are mice are seen in panel A. Horizontal activities were reduced by nearly 50 and vertical activities were reduced by greater than 75 reduction in MPTP treated mice compared to controls panels B and C . Notably MPTP and diapocynin treated mice demonstrated significantly improved performances in horizontal and vertical activities panels A B and C .

At a 20 rpm speed MPTP intoxicated mice showed a greater than 75 decrease in time spent on Rotarod compared to control mice panel D . However MPTP and diapocynin treated mice showed less than a 25 decrease in time spent on Rotarod when compared to control mice panel D . Together these findings demonstrate that diapocynin is capable of inhibiting the behavioral deficits caused by the neurotoxin MPTP and further indicate the potential of diapocynin for improving motor deficits associated with neurodegeneration.

As we found a protective effect by diapocynin in MPTP induced behavioral deficits we checked whether diapocynin could protect against neurochemical deficits caused by MPTP. MPTP intoxication led to a greater than 78 reduction of dopamine levels whereas MPTP and diapocynin treated mice showed a less than 40 decrease of dopamine levels in striatum panel A . We also found a significant decrease of striatal DOPAC and HVA levels with MPTP intoxicated mice whereas MPTP and diapocynin treated mice showed significant preservation of striatal DOPAC and HVA levels panels B and C . These results demonstrate the neuroprotective characteristic of diapocynin against decreased dopamine levels associated with MPTP toxicity. Moreover these results highlight the protective effects of diapocynin against neurochemical deficits associated with inflammatory diseases such as PD.

As diapocynin significantly prevents loss of the dopamine DOPAC and HVA levels due to MPTP toxicity we examined whether diapocynin could protect the nigrostriatal axis against MPTP toxicity. Reduced levels of TH expression in MPTP treated mice both in striatum and substantia nigra were observed by Western blot and immunohistochemical analyses panels A D . However MPTP and diapocynin treated mice showed less reduction of expression of TH panel A . TH DAB immunostaining revealed the loss of dopaminergic neuron terminals in putamen caudate nucleus and globus pallidus regions of striatum panel B and loss of dopaminergic cell bodies in par compacta and lateralis regions of substantia nigra of MPTP treated mice panels C and D . However with diapocynin treatment the loss of TH positive neurons and terminals is substantially prevented in both the striatum and substantia nigra panels C and D . Therefore treatment with diapocynin appears to have substantial potential neuroprotective effects in the nigrostriatal axis.

Assessment of Neuroprotective Effect of Diapocynin in MPTP Induced Animal Model of PD by FLUORO JADE B Staining.

To further confirm that diapocynin protects against MPTP induced dopaminergic neurodegeneration we performed double labeling of TH and FLUORO JADE B in mice substantia nigra sections. FLUORO JADE B effectively stains degenerating neurons and is also a marker of neuronal damage 67 . Apoptotic as well as necrotic cell deaths have been suggested in PD 47 and 68 . As anticipated a decreased number of TH positive neurons was detected in MPTP treated sections which correlated with an increased number of FLUORO JADE B stained cells indicating neurodegeneration of the substantia nigra in MPTP treated mice . Interestingly MPTP and diapocynin treated mice showed fewer FLUORO JADE B positive cells indicating attenuation of neurodegeneration by diapocynin. As expected increases in TH positive cells were also observed with MPTP and diapocynin treated mice. Collectively these data indicate that diapocynin protects against MPTP induced death of dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra. These data further underline the potential neuroprotective effects of diapocynin against PD associated dopaminergic neurodegeneration.

RPMI Trypsin EDTA DMEM F12 FBS sodium pyruvate penicillin streptomycin NEAA and glutamine Q were all obtained from Invitrogen. Griess Reagent was purchased from Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. . A Bradford protein assay kit was purchased from Bio Rad Laboratories Hercules Calif. . Protease and phosphatase inhibitors were obtained from Pierce Biotechnology Rockford Ill. . All primary antibodies were purchased from Santa Cruz Biotechnology Inc. Li Cor blocking buffer was obtained from LI COR Biosciences. Alexa Fluor 680 donkey anti mouse was used as a secondary antibody and obtained from Invitrogen. IRDye800 Conjugated Anti Rabbit IgG was obtained from Rockland Immunochemicals Gilbertsville Pa. . Luminex block store buffer reagents Sigma P 3688 and sodium azide were purchased from Sigma Aldrich St. Louis Mo. . Streptavadin PE capture antibodies and detection antibodies were purchased from eBioscience San Diego Calif. . The 96 well filter plates were purchased from Fisher Scientific Pittsburgh Pa. .

Two cell models of neuroinflammation were used to evaluate the anti neuroinflammatory property of diapocynin including the mouse BV2 microglial cell line as well as primary microglia isolated from mouse brains. BV2 cells were obtained from the American Tissue Culture Collection. BV2 cells were maintained in RPMI containing 10 FBS and 100 units of pen strep at 37 C. and 5 CO. For treatments RPMI containing 2 FBS and 100 units of pen strep was used.

Primary microglia were obtained from 1 2 day old C57 b16 mouse pups. Upon collection whole brains were kept in ice cold DMEM F12 medium containing 10 FBS 1 sodium pyruvate 1 NEAAs 100 units pen strep and Q. After collection the brains were placed in 0.25 trypsin EDTA and incubated at 37 C. with gentle shaking every 5 10 min. After 30 min the trypsin was removed and the brains are washed in warmed medium twice. After washing medium was added to the brains and the brains were homogenized using gentle pipetting starting with a 25 ml pipette and moving to smaller pipette tips as the brains were broken up. When the brains were sufficiently homogenized to a single cell suspension they were filtered with a 70 m nylon filter which allowed microglia and astrocytes to be collected. The resultant cell suspension was plated in T 75 flasks and allowed to grow for 12 14 days at 37 C. 5 CO. Microglia were collected using an Easy Sep Magnet Stemcell Technologies Vancouver BC Canada 68 69 and plated on poly D lysine coated plates and allowed to attach for 2 4 days before treatment.

Inducible nitric oxide synthase iNOS or NOS2 activation was assessed by measuring nitrite levels using Griess reagent in a 96 well format 70 72 . Each well contained 40 000 BV2 cells or 100 000 primary microglia. BV2 cells were cultured in 150 l of RPMI containing 10 FBS and pen strep and the primary microglia were cultured in DMEM F12 containing 10 FBS pen strep sodium pyruvate S P Q and NEAAs. One day after culturing cells were replaced with 150 l of their respective complete media containing only 2 FBS. Both cell types were pretreated with diapocynin 10 M and apocynin 100 M for 30 min before LPS stimulation 1 g ml LPS for BV2 cells and 100 ng ml for primary microglia and the plates were incubated at 37 C. After 24 hr at 37 C. 100 l of supernatant were removed and placed into a new 96 well plate to which 100 l of Griess reagent were added. The plate was shaken on a plate shaker for 10 min before being read in a plate reader at 540 nm.

Cytokine levels of BV2 and microglial cells treated with diapocynin were determined by LUMINEX multiplex immunoassay. Each well containing 40 000 BV2 cells in 150 l of RPMI 10 FBS and Pen strep or 100 000 primary microglia in DMEM F12 containing 10 FBS Pen strep S P Q and NEAAs were prepared. During treatment cells received 150 l of their respective complete media with only 2 FBS. Both diapocynin 10 M and apocynin 100 M were added 30 min before treatment LPS treatment 1 g ml LPS for BV2 cells 500 ng ml LPS for primary microglia but remained in the supernatant for the entire 24 hr treatment period at 37 C. After 24 hr supernatant was collected and frozen at 20 C. for subsequent analysis. For analysis the supernatant was thawed and 40 l of each supernatant sample was tested using the LUMINEX protocol according to the manufacturer s instructions 73 74 .

Cytokine standards and controls were adjusted to 40 l volume and the LUMINEX Samples were run on a LUMINEX 200 Total System and analyzed with Multiplex Analysis LUMINEX Software Invitrogen Carlsbad Calif. .

BV2 cell lysates containing equal amounts of protein were loaded in each lane and separated on a 10 SDS PAGE gel. After separation the protein was transferred to a nitrocellulose membrane. Non specific binding sites were blocked with Li cor blocking buffer for 45 min. The membranes were then treated with primary antibodies directed against NOS2 mouse monoclonal 1 200 and p67phox rabbit polyclonal 1 200 . To confirm equal amounts of protein were loaded membranes were also probed for actin with a actin antibody dilution of 1 10 000 . Secondary antibodies donkey anti mouse Invitrogen and conjugated anti rabbit IgG Rockland were used at a dilution of 1 10 000 for 1 hr at room temperature. The membranes were imaged and captured using a Li COR Odyssey infrared imaging system and software.

Data analysis was performed using Prism 4.0 software GraphPad Software Inc. . Raw data were first analyzed using one way ANOVA and then Tukey s post test was used to compare all treatment groups. Differences with P

Diapocynin is More Effective than Apocynin at Attenuating LPS Induced iNOS Activation in Both BV2 Microglia Cells and Primary Microglia.

First we examined what concentrations of diapocynin and apocynin are necessary to block LPS induced iNOS activation by creating a dose response curve. From the dose response curves the EC50 of each compound was deciphered. The EC50 of diapocynin is 7.757 M whereas apocynin s EC50 is 61.33 M. Based on EC50 values diapocynin was used in further experiments at a concentration of 10 M while apocynin was used at a concentration of 100 M. We showed that diapocynin even at a 10 lower concentration is just as effective at attenuating LPS induced iNOS activation as apocynin in both BV2 cells and primary microglia .

Since diapocynin was able to attenuate LPS induced iNOS activation we next examined its ability to block known inflammatory cytokine release from microglia. We compared the 10 fold lower diapocynin 10 M compared to apocynin 100 M . Measurement of cytokine release in supernatant was determined by the LUMINEX assay. We found that diapocynin was very effective in blocking LPS induced release of IL 1 IL 10 IL 12 and TNF . Apocynin was also effective but required 10 higher concentration than diapocynin. Collectively these results demonstrate that diapocynin is more potent than apocynin in blocking primary microglia mediated neuroinflammatory response.

Diapocynin has the Ability to Attenuate LPS Induced Increases in iNOS and p67phox Protein Expression.

After demonstrating that diapocynin has the ability to block the release of key inflammatory molecules we examined diapocynin s ability to block the expression of key inflammatory proteins. We chose to examine NOS2 and p67phox expression within BV2 cells. NOS2 is the inducible nitric oxide synthase protein that is responsible for much of the release of nitrite from the cells upon LPS stimulation. The p67phox protein is one of the key activating subunits in the NADPH oxidase complex 2 NOX2 which is responsible for production and release of reactive oxygen species ROS from activated microglia. As shown in diapocynin was extremely effective in reducing LPS induced NOS2 and p67phox protein expression back to basal level or even below the basal level. Taken together these results demonstrate that diapocynin has anti inflammatory effects by attenuating microglial mediated inflammatory responses such as cytokine release NOS2 and NOX2 activation.

Diapocynin diacetate diapodiacetate or diapo diace suppresses LPS induced NOS 2 in BV2 microglial cells . BV 2 cells were plated in 96 well plates 40 000 cells per well and treated in 150 l of RPMI containing 2 heat inactivated FBS and penicillin streptomycin. Diapo diacetate was used on the cells as a 30 min pretreatment then LPS 1 g ml was added. All treatments were allowed to incubate at 37 C. for 24 hr starting from the addition of LPS. One hundred microliter aliquots of supernatant from each well were combined with 100 l of Griess reagent Sigma in a 96 well plate and allowed to shake for 10 minutes before being read on the plate reader. The percent nitrite level for the treatments compared to the control was graphed.

While the present invention has been described and exemplified with some specificity those skilled in the art will appreciate the various modifications including variations additions and omissions that may be made in what has been described. It is intended that these modifications may also be encompassed by the present invention and that the scope of the present invention be limited solely by the broadest interpretation that lawfully can be accorded the appended claims. All references and publications listed herein are incorporated by reference.

