---

title: Environmentally friendly percussion primer
abstract: A cartridge containing an environmentally friendly percussion primer employing a primer explosive mixture, packed under the paper disc and anvil; the mixture being a metastable interstitial composite (MIC) and a high explosive; and a second mass of high explosive, packed within the primer cup above the anvil—which mass of high explosive is ignited by the detonation of the MIC and high explosive mixture—thereby adding to the detonation to create a combined, enhanced pressure and temperature wave to more quickly initiate the booster pellet and propellant, to fire the bullet within the subject action time limit—even under extreme cold ambient conditions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07980178&OS=07980178&RS=07980178
owner: The United States of America as represented by the Secretary of the Army
number: 07980178
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100212
---
The inventions described herein may be manufactured used and licensed by the United States Government for United States Government purposes without payment of any royalties thereon or therefore.

This application claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 119 021 which claimed priority from Provisional Application 60 917 412 filed May 11 2007 the entire file wrapper contents of which applications are incorporated herein as if set forth in their complete length.

This invention relates generally to the field of cartridge primers and more particularly to a medium caliber cartridge percussion primer which exhibits improved ignition train performance while producing a lesser environmental impact.

A cartridge packages a bullet propellant and a primer into a single metallic case which is dimensioned precisely to be fired from a given caliber weapon. The cartridge primer is usually in the form of a small metallic cup about 4 to 6 mm in diameter which cup is friction fit within a rearwardly open metal bore formed in the base of the cartridge case. Typically the cartridge primer contains a precise quantity of impact or pressure sensitive explosive material which is packed in place and covered by a thin paper disc over which is fitted a single or grouping of metallic sections which function as an anvil such that when the pressure sensitive explosive material is subjected to a physical force such as that created between a firing pin and the anvil the shock detonates the sandwiched explosive material which in turn expels hot gases up a channel within the base of the cartridge igniting a booster capsule or pellet within that channel. The combined explosive effect of the primer and the booster pellet ignites the propellant contained in the body of the cartridge which generates significant hot rapidly expanding gases thereby propelling the bullet from the cartridge and from the weapon.

Unfortunately the pressure sensitive explosive materials use in primers are hazardous or otherwise environmentally unfriendly such as lead styphnate lead azide mercury II fulminate potassium perchlorate or diazodinitrophenol DDNP . Prior attempts to reduce or substitute less hazardous or more environmentally friendly material have met with limited success due in part to the fact that proposed substitute pressure sensitive materials such as metastable interstitial composite MIC disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 5 717 159 comprising an oxidizer such as molybdenum trioxide and a fuel such as nano sized aluminum powder does not produce sufficient gas upon combustion to perform effectively in existing medium caliber cartridges under cold conditions. Specifically it has been found in the case of medium caliber e.g. 25 mm cartridges under cold conditions the MIC of U.S. Pat. No. 5 717 159 fails to generate sufficient gas upon combustion to achieve an acceptable firing action time i.e. a cycle time of less than the 6 milliseconds the standard set by the U.S. Army. In fact the U.S. Army standard requires this less than 6 millisecond action time at temperatures as low as 65 degrees Fahrenheit a temperature at which such MIC primer materials uniformly fail to achieve the required action standard. Failure to achieve such an action time can potentially cause severe accidents due to the internal ballistics within the barrel when a subsequent bullet is fired too soon after a delayed prior bullet.

It is important to note that the less than 6 millisecond action time discussed above is a limitation required of 100 of the fielded cartridges. This means that any manufacturer of such bullets must utilize a primer for their cartridges that will meet this requirement at all temperature ranges repeatable. The particular primer disclosed and claimed herein does meet the subject action standard criteria repeatable 100 of the time even at very low temperatures.

Therefore there is a need in the art for an environmentally friendly MIC based primer for medium caliber cartridges that will meet the action standard time repeatedly especially under extremely cold conditions.

To fulfill the above detailed needs there has been an advance in the art according to the principles of the present invention directed to a medium caliber cartridge primer which 1 does not contain any lead or otherwise environmentally hazardous compound which 2 physically fits within the constraints of existing primer cups and which 3 when subjected to a percussion will provide sufficient detonation effect i.e. high gas pressure and temperature detonation wave traveling at supersonic velocities to ignite booster pellet and subsequently the mass of propellant i.e. about 100 gm in a typical 25 mm cartridge to fire the bullet within the required action time even under extremely cold conditions. The primer of the present invention is composed of an environmentally friendly primer explosive of a mixture of an MIC and a high explosive such as PETN that is initially detonated by the shock percussion of the firing pin and a second mass of high explosive packed within the primer cup so as to fill any space between the anvil and the top of the primer cup which mass of high explosive is ignited by the detonation of the first MIC and high explosive mixture and thereby adds to that detonation so as to create a combined pressure and temperature wave to as stated initiate the booster pellet and subsequently the propellant mass and to fire the bullet within the action time limit even under extremely cold conditions.

Surprisingly the shock wave created by the present invention provides a significantly faster pressure increase than occurred in the prior art as apparently a significant portion of the prior art primer detonation energy was dissipated in the void over the anvil in the primer cup. By eliminating this void by filling the portion of the primer cup over the anvil with an explosive composition energy is not dissipated and filling the space with a high explosive adds extra energy. Thus this elimination of the void over the anvil and the addition of explosive over the anvil have in combination led to a faster generated and significantly stronger primer pressure wave which translates into a shorter and more reliable cycle time regarding the firing of each cartridge.

A particular exemplary embodiment of the primer of the present invention for a 25 mm medium caliber cartridge is constructed by 1 sandwiching under the paper disc and anvil of a standard medium caliber primer cup about 200 mg of a sensitive detonation composition the primer explosive which is composed of an environmentally friendly metastable interstitial composite MIC of about 39.9 41.2 weight percent nano aluminum fuel and about 49.6 to 51.3 weight percent molybdenum trioxide oxidizer plus about 5 to 8 weight percent pentaerythritol tetranitrate PETN high explosive and about 2 weight percent of a binder such as gum Arabic and an anti oxidant coating for the aluminum of about 0.5 weight percent ammonium di phosphate and 2 packing any available space between the top of the anvil to the top of the primer cup with about 100 mg of a high explosive which can be any commercially available high explosive such as RDX HMX CL 20 PBXN 5 boron potassium nitrate or the like or a mixture thereof. A primer cup of the present invention for a small caliber cartridge such as a 5.56 mm cartridge would be of the same configuration and constituent ingredients simply proportioned down to the fit within the smaller volume of the small caliber cartridge primer cup.

In sharp contrast to the prior art primers constructed according to the present invention do not contain any explosive lead compounds and the ammunition cartridges or shells constructed according to the present invention do not require modifications to existing primer or cartridge hardware or additional flash tubes or ignition tubes.

By way of some additional background and to introduce any nomenclature for the complete understanding of the present invention reference is made to which shows cut away view of a typical small or medium caliber cartridge or round of the prior art. Regardless of caliber such rounds typically include a case or casing a projectile or bullet only the upper portion of which is shown a quantity of propellant or powder only a representative quantity of which is shown a booster pellet and a cartridge primer . The cartridge is a stand alone module having mechanical integrity so as to seal therein sensitive chemical compounds from the external environment while keeping together all the components necessary for firing the round.

The bullet or projectile is what is driven down a firearm barrel by the pressure of hot gases generated by the burning propellant . As those skilled in the art will readily appreciate projectiles are made in a variety of shapes sizes functions for various applications and their discussion is not required for further understanding of the instant invention. Suffice to say projectile design is a specialized sub field of firearm artillery design and involves much design and experimentation. Advantageously the present invention is insensitive to specific projectiles and works with all.

The case or casing is a carrier that holds the propellant primer and projectile securely. Accordingly this is what makes the transportation and deployment of the components as a single module or cartridge . Casings are typically made from brass or steel.

The primer is typically cup shaped and contains percussion sensitive explosive compounds containing lead styphnate. Other such typical prior art primer compounds comprise barium nitrate antimony sulfide atomized aluminum PETN tetracene and gum Arabic as a binder. When struck the primer compounds detonate and the primer expels hot gases and burning particles into the propellant .

Turning now to there is shown a top looking down view of a primer of the prior art. The cartridge primer comprises an external primer cup having a paper disc disposed therein and an anvil disposed over the paper disc. In an area beneath the paper disc is disposed primer explosive shown in as element . With this configuration when the bottom portion of the primer cup is struck as by a firing pin not shown the cup deforms pinching the primer explosive between the primer cup and the anvil . The force imparted by this pinching causes the primer explosive to detonate and expel hot gases and particles through the open segments between the areas covered by the anvil . These hot gases and particles from this initial detonation ignite the explosive material in the booster pellet which as shown in is located immediately above the primer .

In contrast to the above in the present invention as shown in a quantity of high explosive material is packed into the top of the primer above the curved upper surface of the anvil . Such that when the primer explosive is detonated the resulting hot gasses and particles detonate the mass of high explosive packed into the area on top of the anvil and the booster pellet an enhanced energy wave will be created that causes the propellant to rapidly ignite surprisingly such that even in extremely cold temperatures such as 65 degrees Fahrenheit the bullet will be fired within the desired overall action time.

As stated above the primer explosive is a mixture of an environmentally friendly metastable interstitial composite of about 39.9 41.2 weight percent nano aluminum fuel preferably about 41 weight percent and about 49.6 to 51.3 weight percent molybdenum trioxide oxidizer preferably about 51 weight percent plus about 5 to 8 weight percent pentaerythritol tetranitrate PETN high explosive preferably about 5.5 weight percent and about 2 weight percent of a binder such as gum Arabic and an anti oxidant coating for the aluminum of about 0.5 weight percent ammonium di phosphate. The overall quantity of the primer explosive in a 25 mm cartridge primer would be about 200 mg. The nano aluminum fuel is preferably composed of particles which on average are 80 nanometers in diameter. The oxidizer is about 300 nanometers in diameter. However smaller particles for both fuel and oxidizer can be used. As a matter of fact smaller the better because of possible intimate contact between fuel and oxidizer causes more rapid combustion thereafter.

As stated above the mass of high explosive packed into the area on top of the anvil would be for a 25 mm cartridge about 100 mg. Also as stated any commercially available high explosive is usable in the subject invention including RDX HMX CL 20 PBXN 5 boron potassium nitrate or the like or any combination thereof. The mass of high explosive would be packed so as to be relatively flush with the top edge of the primer cup.

An alternative embodiment of the present invention useful as a primer for a small caliber cartridge such as a 5.56 mm cartridge would be of the same configuration and ingredients as detailed above. However while the proportions would remain the same the quantities would have to be proportioned down to the fit within the smaller volume of the small caliber cartridge primer cup.

At this point while we have discussed and described the invention using some specific examples those skilled in the art will recognize that our teachings are not so limited. For example the preferred embodiments of the invention have been provided for the purpose of explaining the principles of the invention and its practical application thereby enabling others skilled in the art to understand the invention. Various embodiments and various modifications are contemplated. Accordingly the invention should be only limited by the scope of the claims attached hereto. The above merely illustrates the principles of the invention. It will thus be appreciated that those skilled in the art will be able to devise various arrangements which although not explicitly described or shown herein embody the principles of the invention and are included within its spirit and scope.

