---

title: System and method for detecting accidental peripheral device disconnection
abstract: A detection device for detecting the manner in which a peripheral device is removed from an electronic device is proposed. The detection device can be on the peripheral device or the electronic device and detects whether the peripheral device was removed in a manner that indicates the removal was intentional or unintentional.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09052758&OS=09052758&RS=09052758
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09052758
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20101231
---
The present disclosure relates generally to detection of a manner of removal of a periphery device from an electronic device.

Many periphery devices may be removeably attached to electronic devices. For example headphones may be attached to an electronic device such as a computer or handheld electronic device through an audio jack. Those periphery devices can be removed intentionally or accidentally. In some cases when an audio jack is removed from an electronic device the audio from the electronic device is output to a speaker on the electronic device in lieu of the headphones. In some cases the audio is turned off in response to removal of the audio jack.

A peripheral device connected to an electronic device can become accidentally removed or disconnected from the electronic device. In some cases removal or disconnection of the peripheral device results in the electronic device performing a function automatically. In cases where the removal is accidental or unintended it may not be desirable to perform that function automatically. The present disclosure presents a detection system that can detect a manner in which a peripheral device is removed or disconnected. If the manner in which the peripheral device is removed or disconnected can be distinguished the behaviour of the electronic device in response to the removal can then be tailored to suit the manner of removal.

In a non limiting example a touch sensor on a connector of the peripheral device detects whether the connector was touched during the removal. Touching the connector during the removal in some embodiments is interpreted as an indicator of intentional removal and removal with no touch is interpreted as unintentional. In the case where the peripheral device is headphones the electronic device can be configured to output audio to a speaker system if the removal included a touch on the connector and not to output the audio to the speaker system if the removal did not include a touch on the connector.

In another non limiting example an optical sensor detects whether some tangible thing for example a hand was near the connector during the removal.

In one aspect there is provided a detection system for detecting a manner in which a peripheral device is removed from an electronic device the detection system comprising a detector configured to sense an action during removal of the peripheral device from the electronic device and an output interface configured to output a signal corresponding to the action sensed.

In another aspect there is provided a connector for connecting a peripheral device to an electronic device the connector comprising a detector configured to sense an action during removal of the peripheral device from the electronic device and an output interface configured to output a signal corresponding to the action sensed.

In another aspect there is provided a system comprising an electronic device a peripheral device connectable to the electronic device a detector configured to sense an action during removal of the peripheral device from the electronic device and an output interface configured to output a signal corresponding to the action sensed.

Embodiments of the present application are not limited to any particular operating system electronic device architecture server architecture or computer programming language. The present application can be applied to any electronic device including but not limited to a computer a mobile electronic device a television and an audio system. Many embodiments may be especially useful with portable electronic devices including handheld devices devices that are sized to be held or carried in a human hand . Likewise the present application can be applied to any peripheral device including but not limited to headphones a charger a printer a display a mouse a speaker a camera and a keyboard. Colloquially speaking an electronic device is typically perceived as the main device and a peripheral is typically perceived as an add on that modifies or improves the functionality of the electronic device or makes the electronic device more useful. Generally speaking a peripheral is typically perceived as an add on that is physically coupled to the electronic device by a physical connector. The present application is not limited to the particular kind of connector between the electronic device and the peripheral. The concepts described herein may be applicable to any number of ports interfaces jacks sockets and the like. The connector may facilitate an electrical connection or an optical connection or a combination of both for example. As will be discussed below the connector is of a kind that the peripheral can be readily connected to and disconnected from i.e. removed from the electronic device by the user typically with no need for any tools. Furthermore the connection between the electronic device and the peripheral need not be a direct connection but may include one or more intermediate elements. In some circumstances an electronic device may have a peripheral and may itself also be a peripheral. For example a video camera may be physically coupled to a computer and speakers may be physically coupled to the video camera. In such a case the speakers may be a peripheral with respect to both the camera and the computer and the camera may be a peripheral with respect to the computer.

Reference is now made to which illustrates an exemplary embodiment of an electronic device in which example embodiments described in the present disclosure can be applied. The electronic device in is a portable electronic device and in particular a mobile two way communication device having data and voice communication capabilities and the capability to communicate with other computer systems for example via the Internet. Depending on the functionality provided by the mobile device in various embodiments the device may be a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a smartphone a mobile telephone or a PDA personal digital assistant enabled for wireless communication or a computer system with a wireless modem. Notably such devices are used by a number of people in their professional and personal capacities for processing and managing information and communications that may be confidential and that such use may occur in public venues.

The mobile device includes a rigid case not shown housing the components of the device . The internal components of the device are constructed on a printed circuit board PCB . The mobile device includes a controller comprising at least one processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem sometimes referred to as a radio layer for exchanging radio frequency signals with the wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor interacts with additional device subsystems including a display screen such as a liquid crystal display LCD screen input devices such as a keyboard and control buttons flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM auxiliary input output I O subsystems data port such as serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port speaker microphone short range communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions. Auxiliary input output I O subsystems and data port may be examples of ports at which peripherals may be connected to the device .

The device may comprise a touch screen display in some embodiments. The touch screen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface connected to an electronic controller and which overlays the display screen . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input device and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller. In some embodiments a touch screen is integrated directly with the display. In still other embodiments a touch screen is placed behind the display.

The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators LOs and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to the mobile device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter as is known in the art. As will be apparent to those skilled in the field of communication the particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which mobile device is intended to operate.

The mobile device may communicate with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of a wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The mobile device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are output to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules comprise operating system software software applications comprising an email messaging application also referred to as an email client a personal address book a calendar application a phone application and graphical authentication module . Example embodiments of the graphical authentication module will be discussed in detail later herein. It is recognized that the graphical authentication module and its various components as described herein can form a discrete module running on the device or the functions of the graphical authentication module can be distributed on the device as separate modules or integrated within other existing modules as desired. Such discrete or distributed implementations all fall within the embodiments of the graphical authentication module as described herein.

The software applications also may include a range of applications including for example a notepad application Internet browser application voice communication i.e. telephony application mapping application or a media player application or any combination thereof. Each of the software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface i.e. the display screen according to the application.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and those skilled in the art will appreciate that a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

In some embodiments the auxiliary I O subsystems may comprise an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The mobile device may comprise other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network or a GPS Global Positioning System subsystem comprising a GPS receiver or transceiver for communicating with a GPS satellite network not shown . As previously noted auxiliary input output I O subsystems may include a port at which a peripheral may be connected or removed by the user. In auxiliary input output I O subsystems has a more general sense however and may also include elements that are generally not readily connected or removed by a user for example a pointing or navigational input device such as a clickable trackball or touch pad or scroll wheel or thumbwheel or a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the device such as receipt of an electronic message or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

In some embodiments the mobile device also includes a removable memory card or module typically comprising flash memory and a memory card interface . Network access is typically associated with a subscriber or user of the mobile device via the memory card which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory card for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory card is inserted in or connected to the memory card interface of the mobile device in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network .

The mobile device also stores other data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various embodiments the data includes service data comprising information required by the mobile device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on the mobile device by its user and other data. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the mobile device may be organized at least partially into a number of databases each containing data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the device memory.

The mobile device also includes a power source which in is represented as a battery even though any power source may be used. The battery is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the serial data port . Such charging circuitry may be an example of a peripheral. The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the mobile device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the mobile device .

The short range communication subsystem is an additional optional component which provides for communication between the mobile device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

A set of applications that control basic device operations including data and voice communication applications will normally be installed on the mobile device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to the operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the mobile device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the serial port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable subsystem . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory i.e. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime. Such flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the mobile device and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications may enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using the mobile device .

The mobile device may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or Web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded Web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by the email messaging application and output to the display . A user of the mobile device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using the input devices in conjunction with the display screen . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the mobile device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar except that the received signals are output to the speaker and signals for transmission are generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. the phone application and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input devices . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the mobile device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the display screen may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The phone application can be split into multiple applications or sub modules for example one or more user phone modules and a call control module. The user phone modules provide a variety of telephony features through a user interface while the call control module provides access to common telephony functions desired by the user phone modules such that telephony requests from phone modules can be coordinated and so that the user phone modules do not need to each provide instructions understood by the wireless communications subsystem . The call control function typically makes telephony features available to user phone modules through an application programming interface API . It is to be recognized that all or part of the phone application features or functions could be provided through the operating system or otherwise distributed in the device while continuing to fall within the term phone application .

Referring now to a detection system in accordance with one example embodiment will now be described. The detection system is for detecting a manner in which a peripheral device is removed from an electronic device. The detection system includes a detector and an output interface . The detector is configured to sense an action during removal of the peripheral device from the electronic device In general when an element is configured to perform a function the element is capable of performing the function. The output interface is configured to output a signal corresponding to or as a function of the action sensed. In some embodiments the detector is located on the electronic device. In other embodiments the detector is located on the peripheral device. In some embodiments the detector is located on a connector for connecting the peripheral device to the electronic device. In some embodiments the output interface is located on the peripheral device. In other embodiments the output interface is located on the electronic device. In still other embodiments the detection system is module that can be placed near one of the electronic device and the peripheral device. In some embodiments the detector and the output interface are co located. In other embodiments the detector and output interface are located apart from each other. For example one could be on the electronic device and the other could be on the peripheral device. The signal may be transmitted in any fashion such as by wire wirelessly by infrared optically sonically to the electronic device or the peripheral or both. As will be discussed below the electronic device or the peripheral or both may behave in response to the signal . For example the electronic device may behave in one fashion if the signal indicates there was an action sensed characteristic of an intentional peripheral removal and may behave in a different fashion if the signal indicates there was no action sensed characteristic of an intentional peripheral removal.

Examples of actions that can be detected in various embodiments include but are not limited to touching a connector coming close to a connection point and fast or slow removal of a connector from a port. Many types of detectors are used in various embodiments. The type of detector used depends on the type of action to be sensed.

A touch sensor that senses if a portion of the peripheral device is touched or if pressure is applied to the sensor during removal of the peripheral device from the electronic device is used in some embodiments. Non limiting examples of touch sensors include a capacitive pad a mechanical switch a force transducer and a piezoelectric pad.

In some embodiments a proximity sensor that senses if an object comes within a pre determined distance of the detector that is a distance that was established expressly or inferentially at some time prior to the sensing of the object during removal of the peripheral device is used. Non limiting examples of a proximity sensor include an optical sensor an infrared sensor and a capacitive sensor.

In some embodiments an accelerometer is used to detect the speed at which a connector is removed. In some cases removal above a specified or pre determined speed will be interpreted as accidental or unintentional.

In an example embodiment the detection system further comprises a processor configured to compare the action sensed such as touch movement pressure to a pre determined action such as a benchmark touch movement or pressure that was specified expressly or inferentially prior to the action being sensed and in response to the action matching the pre determined action to provide the electronic device with an instruction corresponding to the pre determined action. In some implementations the pre determined action may be a threshold for example application of a force above a specified number of Newtons constitutes a touch and otherwise there is no touch. In other implementations the pre determined action may be a number of touches that indicate a manner of touching. For example application of a force above a specified number of Newtons on opposite sides of a connector constitutes a touch indicating that the connector is not merely being touched but is being pinched and otherwise there is no touch. In still other implementations the pre determined action may comprise a range rather than a threshold or the predetermined action may take into account multiple actions such as touch and movement . Notably there may be cases in which there may be little or no action that is actually sensed. In some embodiments a processor on the electronic device or the peripheral device is configured to do the comparison and provide the instruction. For example processor described with reference to could be used. An application or module containing instructions to implement the actions could be included in a memory such as but not limited to flash memory .

In some embodiments the instruction is to deactivate a system of the electronic device. This could save battery power by not running systems not presently being used. The instruction to deactivate a system can be in response to an action that is interpreted as being intentional or as being unintentional. The response to an action may be customisable depending on the configuration of the electronic device and the peripheral device and user requirements. For example an audio system of an electronic device may be deactivated in response to removal of an audio jack without touching the jack. In the case of removal of headphones if the action sensed is not interpreted as being indicative of intentional removal this could avoid audio being output over a speaker system. In some embodiments the instruction may be to continue to output the audio to the port for the headphones. In some embodiments the audio is output to the port for a limited period of time and deactivated if the audio jack is not replaced within the limited period of time. It is to be understood that the example of an audio jack is for exemplary purposes only. This type of instruction can be applied to other embodiments. For example in the case where the peripheral device is an external display images may continue to be output to the port for the display connection or the output of images may be deactivated in response to the action sensed or the images may be displayed on a display on the electronic display.

Similar to the embodiments described above where a processor provides instructions for the electronic device to perform a function the output interface can be configured to output a signal that results in the electronic device performing a function. In some embodiments the output interface is configured to output a deactivation signal to deactivate a system on the electronic device.

In some embodiments the output interface is a wireless transmitter. In some embodiments the wireless transmitter is a short range wireless transmitter such as a Bluetooth device. In embodiments where the detection system is located on the peripheral device or a connector a wireless transmitter can be used to communicate information to the electronic device after the peripheral device or connector has been removed or disconnected from the electronic device.

Other non limiting examples of the output interface are a speaker that outputs an audio alert a visual indicator such as an LED light emitting diode light a signal generator and any means of transmitting a signal such as but not limited to a wireless transmitter or a physical wire. In some embodiments a coded signal is sent over an audio line of a set of headphones. In other embodiments a microphone line on a headset is used to send data. In still other embodiments the output interface provides a tactile response. Non limiting examples include a vibration motor and a vibrating piezo actuator.

Referring now to in another example embodiment a connector is provided. The connector is for connecting a peripheral device to an electronic device . The connector is shown in isolation in and connecting the electronic device to the peripheral device in . For illustrative purposes only in the electronic device is shown as a computer and the peripheral device is shown as headphones. It is to be understood that the connector described herein can be applied to any electronic device and any peripheral device and is not limited to those shown in the Figures. The connector comprises the detection system described above with reference to . In some embodiments the sensors are miniature and can be deployed such that they are unobtrusive add negligible weight or bulk and do not interfere with other operations. They may even be deployed so that the user is unaware of them.

As mentioned in some embodiments the detection system or portions thereof is located on the electronic device. An example embodiment where the detection system is located on an electronic device is shown in . The electronic device is connected to a peripheral device by a connector . For illustrative purposes the electronic device shown is a mobile telephone and the peripheral device is a display. Once again it is to be understood that any electronic device and any peripheral device can be used.

In another embodiment a system comprising the electronic device the peripheral device and the detection system is provided.

Referring now to an exemplary method that can be implemented by embodiments of the systems disclosed herein will be described. For purposes of simplicity the method will be described as carried out by an electronic device such as device in . A comparable method may be carried out by the peripheral. At action a removal of the peripheral device is detected. This detection can be made in some implementations by a sensor in a port on the electronic device that senses whether or not a peripheral device is connected to the port. In other embodiments the removal of the peripheral device triggers a switch indicating removal. In still other embodiments the disconnection of an electrical connection between the electronic device and the peripheral device is detected and interpreted as removal of the peripheral device. At action a determination of an action sensed during removal is made. For example in some embodiments a determination is made as to whether or not a connector was touched. In some embodiments a determination of the manner of touching the connector is made e.g. whether the connector was touched on opposite sides or pinched . In some embodiments the amount of force applied to the connector is measured. In some embodiments the speed of removal is measured. In some embodiments the proximity of a moving object to a point of connection during removal is determined. As discussed above the determination involves comparison of the action sensed to a pre determined action. At step an output signal corresponding to the action sensed is output. For example in some embodiments if the connector is touched a signal corresponding to intentional removal is output. In another example if the connector was not touched during removal a signal corresponding to unintentional removal is output. As another example if there is no movement detected before or as the removal is sensed a signal may be output that corresponds to a connector being yanked out which may be deemed an unintentional removal.

In embodiments using a capacitive touch sensor incidences of false positives may be reduced because the capacitive sensor likely will not be triggered by contact with or proximity to non capacitive objects such as clothing. For example if a mobile device is placed in a pocket objects may be in proximity of a jack and hence the sensor when the jack is accidentally removed. A capacitive sensor is able to detect the difference between a non capacitive object such as a wallet or clothing and a capacitive object such as a hand or finger.

Optical sensors may be better suited to larger devices like a PC or home stereo because they are less likely to be located in a place where the optical sensor may not work such as in a pocket.

One or more of the above embodiments may realize one or more benefits some of which have been discussed previously. In general the concepts described herein enable an electronic device or a peripheral of both to behave differently depending upon whether the peripheral was removed intentionally or unintentionally. The behaviour may be a function of the signal that is output corresponding to the action sensed. It has been discovered that intention as a mental state is typically accompanied by detectable action such as touching or movement. If the detectable action that typically accompanies an intentional removal is present then the electronic device may behave in one way. If the detectable action that typically accompanies an intentional removal is absent the electronic device may behave in a different way.

The different modes of behaviour may themselves be advantageous. As has been mentioned already they may protect the user s privacy or save power for example. The advantages that may be realized from the change in behaviour may vary from electronic device to electronic device and from peripheral to peripheral. In the context of handheld portable electronic devices such as smart phones and tablet computers the concepts may be especially advantageous because these devices are often used to work with confidential information in public places. Detection of an unintentional peripheral removal and behaving accordingly may help preserve the confidential information.

Further the techniques described may be implemented automatically without specific action by the user. The detection system may be implemented in an unobtrusive manner and may even be virtually invisible to the user.

While the present disclosure is sometimes described in terms of methods a person of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the present disclosure is also directed to various apparatus including components for performing at least some of the aspects and features of the described methods be it by way of hardware components software or any combination of the two or in any other manner. Moreover an article of manufacture for use with the apparatus such as a pre recorded storage device or other similar computer readable medium including program instructions recorded thereon may direct an apparatus to facilitate the practice of the described methods. It is understood that such apparatus articles of manufacture also come within the scope of the present disclosure.

The various embodiments presented above are merely examples and are in no way meant to limit the scope of this disclosure. Variations of the innovations described herein will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art such variations being within the intended scope of the present application. In particular features from one or more of the above described embodiments may be selected to generate alternative embodiments comprised of a sub combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. In addition features from one or more of the above described embodiments may be selected and combined to generate alternative embodiments comprised of a combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. Features suitable for such combinations and sub combinations would be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art upon review of the present application as a whole. The subject matter described herein and in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

