---

title: Multi-layered color-sensitive passwords
abstract: A method of authenticating a user of a computing device is proposed, together with computing device on which the method is implemented. In the method a modified base image is overlaid with a modified overlay image on a display and at least one of the modified base image and modified overlay image is moved by the user. Positive authentication is indicated in response to the base image reference point on the modified base image being aligned with the overlay image reference point on the modified overlay image and selection of a color for a portion of the display that matches a pre-selected color.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09258123&OS=09258123&RS=09258123
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 09258123
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: CA
publication_date: 20101216
---
The present application is related to commonly owned U.S. application Ser. No. 12 969 647 entitled ADJUSTING THE POSITION OF AN ENDPOINT REFERENCE FOR INCREASING SECURITY DURING DEVICE LOG ON Ser. No. 12 969 878 entitled VISUAL OR TOUCHSCREEN PASSWORD ENTRY Ser. No. 12 969 646 entitled PRESSURE SENSITIVE MULTI LAYER PASSWORDS Ser. No. 12 969 797 entitled OBSCURING VISUAL LOGIN Ser. No. 12 969 645 entitled MULTI LAYER ORIENTATION CHANGING PASSWORD Ser. No. 12 969 643 entitled MULTI LAYER MULTI POINT OR PATHWAY BASED PASSWORDS Ser. No. 12 969 638 entitled SIMPLE ALGEBRAIC AND MULTI LAYER PASSWORDS Ser. No. 12 969 637 entitled MULTI LAYER MULTI POINT OR RANDOMIZED PASSWORDS Ser. No. 12 969 633 entitled PASSWORD ENTRY USING 3D IMAGE WITH SPATIAL ALIGNMENT and Ser. No. 12 969 629 entitled PASSWORD ENTRY USING MOVING IMAGES all of which were filed on the same date as this application and are incorporated herein by reference.

Passwords may be used in many situations where a user needs to be authenticated. Situations requiring authentication may include the ability to access or use a computer mobile phone PDA or any other device. They may also enable access to a physical location or allow use of a credit debit card or similar instrument. Passwords are typically alpha numeric strings or sequences entered on a keyboard. Graphical authentication systems where passwords are comprised of graphical components also exist.

In some graphical authentication systems a user must move a previously selected reference point on an overlay image such as a grid to a previously selected reference point on a base image. With existing graphical authentication systems shoulder surfing can occur. For example a third party observer may be able to determine where a cursor is located at the end of the authentication process. In some situations a third party observer may observe where the user s fingers are pointing. In other situations a computer algorithm could be used to determine a pattern of where certain points on the overlay image are located at the end of the authentication process.

Thus the present disclosure proposes to make the passcode in a graphical authentication system include a color of a portion of either the overlay image or the base image. To authenticate a user must select a color for the portion that matches a pre selected color.

In one aspect there is provided one or more computer readable media having computer readable instructions stored thereon that when executed by a processor implement a method of authenticating a user of a computing device the computing device having a memory storing a base image and an overlay image the base image having a pre selected base image reference point and the overlay image having a pre selected overlay image reference point the method comprising generating a modified base image generating a modified overlay image displaying on a display the modified base image overlaid by the modified overlay image receiving an input for moving one of the modified base image and the modified overlay image moving the one of the modified base image and the modified overlay image in response to the input detecting a selection of a color for a portion of the display and in response to alignment of the base image reference point on the modified base image with the overlay image reference point on the modified overlay image at a point on the display and the selected color matching a pre selected color indicating positive authentication.

In another aspect there is provided a method of authenticating a user of a computing device the computing device having a memory storing a base image and an overlay image the base image having a pre selected base image reference point and the overlay image having a pre selected overlay image reference point the method comprising generating a modified base image generating a modified overlay image displaying on a display the modified base image overlaid by the modified overlay image receiving an input for moving one of the modified base image and the modified overlay image moving the one of the modified base image and the modified overlay image in response to the input and detecting a selection of a color for a portion of the display and in response to alignment of the base image reference point on the modified base image with the overlay image reference point on the modified overlay image at a point on the display and the selected color matching a pre selected color indicating positive authentication.

In another aspect there is provided a computing device comprising a processor a display and one or more computer readable media having computer readable instructions stored thereon that when executed by the processor implement a method of authenticating a user of the computing device the computing device having a memory storing a base image and an overlay image the base image having a pre selected base image reference point and the overlay image having a pre selected overlay image reference point the method including generating a modified base image generating a modified overlay image displaying on the display the modified base image overlaid by the modified overlay image receiving an input for moving one of the modified base image and the modified overlay image moving the one of the modified base image and the modified overlay image in response to the input assigning a security level requirement for authenticating the user detecting a selection of a color for a portion of the display and in response to alignment of the base image reference point on the modified base image with the overlay image reference point on the modified overlay image at a point on the display and the selected color matching a pre selected color indicating positive authentication.

Embodiments of the present application are not limited to any particular operating system mobile device architecture server architecture or computer programming language.

Reference is first made to which shows in block diagram form a communication system in which example embodiments of the present disclosure can be applied. The communication system comprises a number of mobile communication devices mobile devices which may be connected to the remainder of system in any of several different ways. Accordingly several instances of mobile communication devices are depicted in employing different example ways of connecting to system . Mobile communication devices are connected to a wireless communication network which may comprise one or more of a Wireless Wide Area Network WWAN and a Wireless Local Area Network WLAN or other suitable network arrangements. In some embodiments the mobile communication devices are configured to communicate over both the WWAN and WLAN and to roam between these networks. In some embodiments the wireless network may comprise multiple WWANs and WLANs .

The WWAN may be implemented as any suitable wireless access network technology. By way of example but not limitation the WWAN may be implemented as a wireless network that includes a number of transceiver base stations one of which is shown in where each of the base stations provides wireless Radio Frequency RF coverage to a corresponding area or cell. The WWAN is typically operated by a mobile network service provider that provides subscription packages to users of the mobile communication devices . In some embodiments the WWAN conforms to one or more of the following wireless network types Mobitex Radio Network DataTAC GSM Global System for Mobile Communication GPRS General Packet Radio System TDMA Time Division Multiple Access CDMA Code Division Multiple Access CDPD Cellular Digital Packet Data iDEN integrated Digital Enhanced Network EvDO Evolution Data Optimized CDMA2000 EDGE Enhanced Data rates for GSM Evolution UMTS Universal Mobile Telecommunication Systems HSDPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access IEEE 802.16e also referred to as Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access or WiMAX or various other networks. Although WWAN is described as a Wide Area network that term is intended herein also to incorporate wireless Metropolitan Area Networks WMAN and other similar technologies for providing coordinated service wirelessly over an area larger than that covered by typical WLANs.

The WWAN may further comprise a wireless network gateway which connects the mobile communication devices to transport facilities and through the transport facilities to a wireless connector system . Transport facilities may include one or more private networks or lines the public internet a virtual private network or any other suitable network. The wireless connector system may be operated for example by an organization or enterprise such as a corporation university or governmental department which allows access to a network such as an internal or enterprise network and its resources or the wireless connector system may be operated by a mobile network provider. In some embodiments the network may be realised using the internet rather than an internal or enterprise network.

The wireless network gateway provides an interface between the wireless connector system and the WWAN which facilitates communication between the mobile communication devices and other devices not shown connected directly or indirectly to the WWAN . Accordingly communications sent via the mobile communication devices are transported via the WWAN and the wireless network gateway through transport facilities to the wireless connector system . Communications sent from the wireless connector system are received by the wireless network gateway and transported via the WWAN to the mobile communication devices .

The WLAN comprises a wireless network which in some embodiments conforms to IEEE 802.11x standards sometimes referred to as Wi Fi such as for example the IEEE 802.11a 802.11b and or 802.11g standard. Other communication protocols may be used for the WLAN in other embodiments such as for example IEEE 802.11n IEEE 802.16e also referred to as Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access or WiMAX or IEEE 802.20 also referred to as Mobile Wireless Broadband Access . The WLAN includes one or more wireless RF Access Points AP one of which is shown in that collectively provide a WLAN coverage area.

The WLAN may be a personal network of the user an enterprise network or a hotspot offered by an internet service provider ISP a mobile network provider or a property owner in a public or semi public area for example. The access points are connected to an access point AP interface which may connect to the wireless connector system directly for example if the access point is part of an enterprise WLAN in which the wireless connector system resides or indirectly via the transport facilities if the access point is a personal Wi Fi network or Wi Fi hotspot in which case a mechanism for securely connecting to the wireless connector system such as a virtual private network VPN may be appropriate . The AP interface provides translation and routing services between the access points and the wireless connector system to facilitate communication directly or indirectly with the wireless connector system .

The wireless connector system may be implemented as one or more servers and is typically located behind a firewall . The wireless connector system manages communications including email messages to and from a set of managed mobile communication devices . The wireless connector system also provides administrative control and management capabilities over users and mobile communication devices which may connect to the wireless connector system .

The wireless connector system allows the mobile communication devices to access the network and connected resources and services such as a messaging server for example a Microsoft Exchange IBM Lotus Domino or Novell GroupWise email messaging server having a global address book and optionally other servers . The other servers may comprise a content server for providing content such as Internet content or content from an organization s internal servers to the mobile communication devices in the wireless network and an application server for implementing server based applications.

The global address book comprises electronic contact records generated and maintained by an IT information technology administrator of the network . Typically the global address book is maintained exclusively by the messaging server and there is no local copy on the mobile device . In addition the global address book typically comprises contact records for all users of the respective network e.g. enterprise . The contact records in the global address book may be one or more of individual contact records or user records or a group address or distribution list which lists multiple individual users .

The wireless connector system typically provides a secure exchange of data e.g. email messages personal information manager PIM data and IM data with the mobile communication devices . In some embodiments communications between the wireless connector system and the mobile communication devices are encrypted. In some embodiments communications are encrypted using a symmetric encryption key implemented using Advanced Encryption Standard AES or Triple Data Encryption Standard Triple DES encryption. Private encryption keys are generated in a secure two way authenticated environment and are used for both encryption and decryption of data.

The wireless network gateway is adapted to send data packets received from the mobile device over the WWAN to the wireless connector system . The wireless connector system then sends the data packets to the appropriate connection point such as the messaging server content server or application server . Conversely the wireless connector system sends data packets received for example from the messaging server or other server to the wireless network gateway which then transmit the data packets to the destination mobile device . The AP interfaces of the WLAN provide similar sending functions between the mobile device the wireless connector system and network connection point such as the messaging server content server and application server .

The network may comprise a private local area network metropolitan area network wide area network the public internet or combinations thereof and may include virtual networks constructed using any of these alone or in combination. Computers may be connected to the network directly or indirectly via an intermediate communication network such as the Internet. When computers connect to the network indirectly e.g. via the Internet a VPN or other mechanism for securely connecting to the network may be appropriate. Computers may be of any suitable construction and include at least a processor and a display screen one or more user input devices and a memory each connected to the processor as is known in the art. The computers could be desktop computers laptop notebook netbook computers or combinations thereof and may have wired or wireless communication subsystems for connecting to the network .

A mobile device may alternatively connect to the wireless connector system using a computer via the network . In at least some embodiments for security purposes the computers with which the mobile devices can connect to the wireless connector system are limited to computers which are directly connected to the network . A link may be provided for exchanging information between the mobile device and computer connected to the wireless connector system . The link may comprise one or both of a physical interface and short range wireless communication interface. The physical interface may comprise one or combinations of an Ethernet connection Universal Serial Bus USB connection Firewire also known as an IEEE 1394 interface connection or other serial data connection via respective ports or interfaces of the mobile device and computer . The short range wireless communication interface may be a personal area network PAN interface. A personal area network is a wireless point to point connection meaning no physical cables are required to connect the two end points.

It will be appreciated that the above described communication system is provided for the purpose of illustration only and that the above described communication system comprises one possible communication network configuration of a multitude of possible configurations for use with the mobile communication devices . The teachings of the present disclosure may be employed in connection with any other type of network and associated devices that are effective in implementing or facilitating wireless communication. Suitable variations of the communication system will be understood to a person of skill in the art and are intended to fall within the scope of the present disclosure.

Reference is now made to which illustrates an exemplary embodiment of the mobile device in which example embodiments described in the present disclosure can be applied. The mobile device is a two way communication device having data and voice communication capabilities and the capability to communicate with other computer systems for example via the Internet. Depending on the functionality provided by the mobile device in various embodiments the device may be a multiple mode communication device configured for both data and voice communication a smartphone a mobile telephone or a PDA personal digital assistant enabled for wireless communication or a computer system with a wireless modem.

The mobile device includes a rigid case not shown housing the components of the device . The internal components of the device are constructed on a printed circuit board PCB . The mobile device includes a controller comprising at least one processor such as a microprocessor which controls the overall operation of the device . The processor interacts with device subsystems such as a wireless communication subsystem sometimes referred to as a radio layer for exchanging radio frequency signals with the wireless network to perform communication functions. The processor interacts with additional device subsystems including a display screen such as a liquid crystal display LCD screen input devices such as a keyboard and control buttons flash memory random access memory RAM read only memory ROM auxiliary input output I O subsystems data port such as serial data port such as a Universal Serial Bus USB data port speaker microphone short range communication subsystem and other device subsystems generally designated as . Some of the subsystems shown in perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions.

The device may comprise a touch screen display in some embodiments. The touch screen display may be constructed using a touch sensitive input surface connected to an electronic controller and which overlays the display screen . The touch sensitive overlay and the electronic controller provide a touch sensitive input device and the processor interacts with the touch sensitive overlay via the electronic controller. In some embodiments a touch screen is integrated directly with the display. In still other embodiments a touch screen is placed behind the display.

The communication subsystem includes a receiver a transmitter and associated components such as one or more antenna elements and local oscillators Ws and a processing module such as a digital signal processor DSP . The antenna elements and may be embedded or internal to the mobile device and a single antenna may be shared by both receiver and transmitter as is known in the art. As will be apparent to those skilled in the field of communication the particular design of the wireless communication subsystem depends on the wireless network in which mobile device is intended to operate.

The mobile device may communicate with any one of a plurality of fixed transceiver base stations of the wireless network within its geographic coverage area. The mobile device may send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after the required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Signals received by the antenna through the wireless network are input to the receiver which may perform such common receiver functions as signal amplification frequency down conversion filtering channel selection etc. as well as analog to digital A D conversion. A D conversion of a received signal allows more complex communication functions such as demodulation and decoding to be performed in the DSP . In a similar manner signals to be transmitted are processed including modulation and encoding for example by the DSP . These DSP processed signals are output to the transmitter for digital to analog D A conversion frequency up conversion filtering amplification and transmission to the wireless network via the antenna . The DSP not only processes communication signals but may also provide for receiver and transmitter control. For example the gains applied to communication signals in the receiver and the transmitter may be adaptively controlled through automatic gain control algorithms implemented in the DSP .

The processor operates under stored program control and executes software modules stored in memory such as persistent memory for example in the flash memory . As illustrated in the software modules comprise operating system software software applications comprising an email messaging application also referred to as an email client a personal address book a calendar application a phone application and graphical authentication module . Example embodiments of the graphical authentication module will be discussed in detail later herein. It is recognized that the graphical authentication module and its various components as described herein can form a discrete module running on the device or the functions of the graphical authentication module can be distributed on the device as separate modules or integrated within other existing modules as desired. Such discrete or distributed implementations all fall within the embodiments of the graphical authentication module as described herein.

The software applications also may include a range of applications including for example a notepad application Internet browser application voice communication i.e. telephony application mapping application or a media player application or any combination thereof. Each of the software applications may include layout information defining the placement of particular fields and graphic elements e.g. text fields input fields icons etc. in the user interface i.e. the display screen according to the application.

Those skilled in the art will appreciate that the software modules or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into volatile memory such as the RAM . The RAM is used for storing runtime data variables and other types of data or information as will be apparent to those skilled in the art. Although specific functions are described for various types of memory this is merely one example and those skilled in the art will appreciate that a different assignment of functions to types of memory could also be used.

In some embodiments the auxiliary I O subsystems may comprise an external communication link or interface for example an Ethernet connection. The mobile device may comprise other wireless communication interfaces for communicating with other types of wireless networks for example a wireless network such as an orthogonal frequency division multiplexed OFDM network or a GPS Global Positioning System subsystem comprising a GPS receiver or transceiver for communicating with a GPS satellite network not shown . The auxiliary I O subsystems may comprise a pointing or navigational input device such as a touchpad a clickable trackball or scroll wheel or thumbwheel or a vibrator for providing vibratory notifications in response to various events on the device such as receipt of an electronic message or incoming phone call or for other purposes such as haptic feedback touch feedback .

In some embodiments the mobile device also includes a removable memory card or module typically comprising flash memory and a memory card interface . Network access is typically associated with a subscriber or user of the mobile device via the memory card which may be a Subscriber Identity Module SIM card for use in a GSM network or other type of memory card for use in the relevant wireless network type. The memory card is inserted in or connected to the memory card interface of the mobile device in order to operate in conjunction with the wireless network .

The mobile device also stores other data in an erasable persistent memory which in one example embodiment is the flash memory . In various embodiments the data includes service data comprising information required by the mobile device to establish and maintain communication with the wireless network . The data may also include user application data such as email messages address book and contact information calendar and schedule information notepad documents image files and other commonly stored user information stored on the mobile device by its user and other data. The data stored in the persistent memory e.g. flash memory of the mobile device may be organized at least partially into a number of databases each containing data items of the same data type or associated with the same application. For example email messages contact records and task items may be stored in individual databases within the device memory.

The mobile device also includes a battery as a power source which is typically one or more rechargeable batteries that may be charged for example through charging circuitry coupled to a battery interface such as the serial data port . The battery provides electrical power to at least some of the electrical circuitry in the mobile device and the battery interface provides a mechanical and electrical connection for the battery . The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which provides power V to the circuitry of the mobile device .

The short range communication subsystem is an additional optional component which provides for communication between the mobile device and different systems or devices which need not necessarily be similar devices. For example the subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components or a wireless bus protocol compliant communication mechanism such as a Bluetooth communication module to provide for communication with similarly enabled systems and devices.

A predetermined set of applications that control basic device operations including data and voice communication applications will normally be installed on the mobile device during or after manufacture. Additional applications and or upgrades to the operating system or software applications may also be loaded onto the mobile device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the serial port the short range communication subsystem or other suitable subsystem . The downloaded programs or code modules may be permanently installed for example written into the program memory i.e. the flash memory or written into and executed from the RAM for execution by the processor at runtime. Such flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the mobile device and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both. For example secure communication applications may enable electronic commerce functions and other such financial transactions to be performed using the mobile device .

The mobile device may provide two principal modes of communication a data communication mode and a voice communication mode. In the data communication mode a received data signal such as a text message an email message or Web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the processor for further processing. For example a downloaded Web page may be further processed by a browser application or an email message may be processed by the email messaging application and output to the display . A user of the mobile device may also compose data items such as email messages for example using the input devices in conjunction with the display screen . These composed items may be transmitted through the communication subsystem over the wireless network .

In the voice communication mode the mobile device provides telephony functions and operates as a typical cellular phone. The overall operation is similar except that the received signals are output to the speaker and signals for transmission are generated by a transducer such as the microphone . The telephony functions are provided by a combination of software firmware i.e. the phone application and hardware i.e. the microphone the speaker and input devices . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem may also be implemented on the mobile device . Although voice or audio signal output is typically accomplished primarily through the speaker the display screen may also be used to provide an indication of the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

The phone application can be split into multiple applications or sub modules for example one or more user phone modules and a call control module. The user phone modules provide a variety of telephony features through a user interface while the call control module provides access to common telephony functions desired by the user phone modules such that telephony requests from phone modules can be coordinated and so that the user phone modules do not need to each provide instructions understood by the wireless communications subsystem . The call control function typically makes telephony features available to user phone modules through an application programming interface API . It is to be recognized that all or part of the phone application features or functions could be provided through the operating system or otherwise distributed in the device while continuing to fall within the term phone application .

Referring now to an exemplary embodiment of computer readable media will be described. The computer readable media have computer readable instructions stored thereon that when implemented cause a processor to execute any one of the methods described herein. For the purposes of the application computer readable media comprise any tangible computer storage such as but not limited to flash memory read only memory CD DVD and memory sticks. Graphical authentication module described above with reference to is an exemplary implementation of computer readable media . However it is to be understood that the computer readable media is not limited to use on mobile devices such as mobile device described above. Non limiting examples of the processor include a CPU central processing unit on a personal computer laptop computer tablet device personal digital assistant PDA mobile telephone smart phone bank machine and digital authentication system for entry to rooms or buildings or control system. Any device with a processor a display and a user interface enabling a user to move images on the display could feasibly make use of the computer readable media to authenticate users.

A flow chart of a method implemented by the processor is shown in . The method is a method of authenticating a user of a computing device the computing device having a memory storing a base image and an overlay image the base image having a pre selected base image reference point and the overlay image having a pre selected overlay image reference point. The method starts with generating a modified base image and generating a modified overlay image. Then the method continues with displaying on a display the modified base image overlaid by the modified overlay image. Action of the method is receiving an input for moving one of the modified base image and the modified overlay image. Then the method continues with moving the one of the modified base image and the modified overlay image in response to the input. Then at action a selection of a color for a portion of the display is detected. Finally at action in response to alignment of the base image reference point on the modified base image with the overlay image reference point on the modified overlay image at a point on the display and the color selected matching a pre selected color positive authentication is indicated. Non limiting examples of indicating positive authentication include providing a visual indicator providing an audible indicator and allowing user access.

Referring now to another example method will be described. The method in starts with actions and from . Then after the moving a determination is made of whether or not the base image reference point and the overlay image reference point are aligned AND whether or not the color selected matches a pre selected color. If the determination is that there is alignment and that the color selected matches a pre selected color the method proceeds to action which is the same as action in that is indicating positive authentication. If there is no alignment or if the color selected does not match a pre selected color the method proceeds to indicating that authentication failed.

The indication that authentication failed in some embodiments is an audio signal. In some embodiments the indication that authentication failed is a visual output on the display. In some embodiments if authentication failed the method starts over. In some embodiments after a set number of failed authentication attempts a user is locked out and not permitted to attempt authentication again. In some embodiments the user is locked out until an administrator overrides the lock out. In other embodiments the lock out is for a set time period.

In some embodiments the method further comprises timing the authentication attempt. If positive authentication is not indicated within a time limit the method proceeds to action i.e. indicating that authentication failed.

In an alternate embodiment when the overlay image is moved the modified base image disappears. In other words the moving comprises moving the overlay image and the method further comprises removing the modified base image from the display in response to receiving the input. Therefore the user must remember where the base image reference point was located on the display and align the overlay image reference point without being able to see it. This adds security in that a third party can not see any two points being aligned. However tolerances for alignment would likely be less strict than in the case where the user can see the base image reference point.

In some embodiments the portion of the display is a pre selected reference point on one of the modified base image and the modified overlay image. In some embodiments the portion of the display is one of the base image reference point and the overlay image reference point.

In a non limiting example after the overlay image reference point and the base image reference point are aligned the portion of the display continues to change color. To authenticate a further input must be received when the portion of the display matches the pre selected color. Of course the selection of the color can take place prior to alignment of the reference points in other embodiments.

In some embodiments the method further comprises receiving a further input to change the color of the portion of the display and changing the color of the portion of the display in response to the further input. For example the user can change the color of the portion of the display by pressing a key on a device or clicking a mouse. The color of the display in some embodiments changes at random. Pressing a different key can indicate that the user has selected the color that appears in some embodiments. In some embodiments the passing of a pre determined period of time with no change in color is interpreted as a selection of the current color of the portion of the display.

In some embodiments other portions of the display change color concurrently with the portion of the display. In some embodiments each portion of the display has a randomly generated color. In this manner a third party observer will have difficulty determining which portion the user is watching or which color the user is selecting.

In some embodiments the modified overlay image is translucent and colors in the overlay image blend with colors in the modified base image as the one of the modified base image and the modified overlay image is moved. In some such cases receiving the further input comprises detecting the color of the portion of the display when the moving stops.

In some embodiments detecting the selection comprises detecting the color of the portion of the display when a key on a keyboard is depressed. For example if the color of the portion is continuously changing the user depresses a designated key when the correct color appears on the portion of the display to select the color. In some embodiments detecting the selection comprises detecting the color of the portion of the display when a mouse is clicked. In some embodiments detecting the selection comprises detecting the color of the portion of the display when a function key is activated. Of course other input mechanisms or user interfaces can be used to select the color and thus detecting the selection can comprise detecting the color when the appropriate input is received.

In some embodiments the color continues to change after the selection is detected. This makes it more difficult for a third party observer to know what color was present when the user made the selection.

In an embodiment an object or color in an image is pre selected as a key. During the authentication process the object has a randomly generated color that the user can change using a palette of colors. Other objects in the image change color at the same time as the object so that a third party observer does not know which object and color is the key.

In an alternate embodiment an image of multiple objects is presented on the display. To authenticate a user must select objects one by one and adjust their colors. Positive authentication is indicated when a set number of the objects are changed to match pre selected colors for the objects.

In non limiting exemplary embodiments the base image is a photograph of a scene and the pre selected reference point is an object or a portion of an object in the scene. In other non limiting embodiments the base image includes a plurality of abstract objects and the pre selected reference point is one of the abstract objects. In other embodiments the base image is a grid of numbers characters or objects.

In non limiting embodiments the overlay image is a grid of numbers characters or objects. In some embodiments the pre selected number character or object appears more than once in the grid. As with the base image in some embodiments the overlay image in some embodiments is a photo or abstract image. In some cases when the image is overlaid on the base image it is presented so that the base image or portions thereof are visible through the overlay image.

In some embodiments one or both of the overlay image and the base image is a 3 D image. In some embodiments one or both of the overlay image and the base image have data for three dimensions but are displayed on a 2 D screen. Points in all three dimensions can be selected and movement within the three dimensions is possible in these embodiments. In some embodiments the images are displayed on a 3 D screen.

In some embodiments the reference point on either the base image or overlay image or both is represented by a dot an x or some other symbol next to a recognizable part of the image such as a number character or object. In some embodiments the dot x or other symbol appears next to some or all other objects in the image. In some embodiments the reference point is represented by a number character or object in the respective image. In some embodiments aligning the reference points includes bringing one of the references points within a predefined distance of the other reference point. In other words there may be a tolerance zone. An example of a tolerance zone is an area around a reference point in which a user selection will be interpreted as selection of the reference point. The tolerance zone can be made smaller for increased security or larger where less precision is possible. In some embodiments the tolerance zone is variable and is made smaller when increased security is required.

While the methods described with reference to and refer to one base image and one overlay image and a single reference point on each image it is to be understood that any number of images and reference points can be used. It is to be understood that the methods described herein are not limited to the order in which the actions are presented herein and that the various actions may be implemented in a different order in other embodiments.

In some example embodiments the computer readable media is located on the computing device. shows a computing device with computer readable media installed thereon. The computing device also comprises a memory on which the base image and the overlay image are stored. Non limiting examples of formats for storing the base image and the overlay image are bitmap PDF PEG and PNG. In some embodiments for example where a grid is used the format of the image can include different fonts or font technologies. In some embodiments the memory is an external memory such as a memory stick or a memory on a server. A display is also provided for displaying representations or modified versions of the base image and the overlay image . In some embodiments the display is a touchscreen.

In some embodiments one or both of the overlay image and the base image stored in the memory comprise data or instructions for generating the respective image. For example the stored image can comprise instructions to generate a 2D grid of numbers from 1 to 100.

In some embodiments of the computer readable media generating the modified base image comprises randomly altering the position of the base image reference point on the display. In some embodiments the base image reference point is altered with respect to the rest of the base image. In other embodiments generating the modified overlay image comprises randomly altering the position of the overlay image reference point. In some embodiments both the base image reference point and the overlay image reference point positions are altered.

In some embodiments one or both of the overlay image and the base image are distorted. Examples of distorting the image include but are not limited to stretching the image rubber band effect blurring portions of the image compressing the image and morphing the image. Another example involves generating a collage of images from the base image or overlay image where the collage can be reconfigured. In such an embodiment in presenting the collage or modified image the respective reference points should be visible and not overlapped. In some embodiments if the reference point is a number or character the font can be changed.

In some embodiments generating the modified base image comprises making a copy of the base image. In some embodiments the copy is an exact copy. Likewise in some embodiments generating the modified overlay image comprises making a copy of the overlay image and the copy of the overlay image in some cases can be an exact copy of the overlay image.

Non limiting examples of presenting the modified images include presenting the respective image at a different location each time the instructions are executed distorting the appearance of the image and rotating the modified image.

In some embodiments of the computer readable media the input comprises a movement of the modified base image and a movement of the modified overlay image. The modified images are moved by the user using navigation controls on the computing device in some embodiments. For example a mouse can be used to click and drag the image to be moved. If a touch screen is used the user can touch and drag one or both images. Other non limiting navigation controls include keys on a keyboard a touchpad a trackball a thumbwheel and a joystick. In an exemplary embodiment the input comprises a sequence of movements of the base image and the overlay image. In some embodiments the representations of the images must be moved in a specific sequence. For example first move one of the modified base image and the modified overlay image and then move the other of the two so that the respective reference points are aligned. In an exemplary embodiment individual touch is used to move both planes i.e. the base image plane and the overlay image plane. In some embodiments each plane can be moved simultaneously by a different finger if multi touch input is supported. Some embodiments restrict the movement of each representation in horizontal diagonal or vertical directions.

In some embodiments gestures are used to move the modified base image or the modified overlay image or both. For example pressure or an accelerometer can control the movement.

Screen wrap can also be used in some embodiments to confuse third party observers. Screen wrap can be used in at least two manners. In the first when part of the image moves off one edge of the display that part appears immediately on the opposite side. In the first manner the image is usually the same size as the display. In the second manner which is sometimes used when the image is larger than the display part of the image moves off the edge but is not seen immediately on the opposite side. In this case the third party observer would not see the entire image. In some such embodiments one or more of the reference points may not be visible on the screen at first and the user has to move the representation of the respective image to bring the reference point into view.

In one embodiment the overlay image is a grid of numbers and when the modified overlay image is displayed the grid could move up or down with only a portion of the grid visible i.e. higher or lower numbers may not be visible. The user moves the grid to align the pre selected number with the reference point on the modified base image. In some embodiments the pre selected number must be moved up or down to the proper height and then moved left or right to align with the reference point on the base image. The requirement to move a reference point vertically and then horizontally or vice versa can be used in any embodiment and is not limited to a grid of numbers.

Panoramic photos can also be used for either the base image or the overlay image or both. In some such embodiments the photo is moveable to align the reference points. In some embodiments the photo is moveable to align a point on the photo with a number on a grid. In some embodiments the photo is moveable to align a point on the photo with a column and row in a grid corresponding to a pre selected number. In other embodiments the photo is moveable left or right only. In other embodiments the photo is moveable up and down only.

In some embodiments the overlay image is a grid of images and presenting the modified overlay image comprises altering the position of the pre selected overlay image reference point while maintaining at least one of a column and a row with images having a common characteristic. In an exemplary embodiment the grid is a grid of numbers with all of the x1s in one column 1 11 21 etc. and all of the x2s in another column 2 12 22 etc and so on but the position of each number with the respective column changes each time the instructions are executed. For example if the grid is a grid of numbers and the pre selected reference point on the overlay image is the number 23 each time the grid is presented the reference point will be in a different row and column but always in the same column as the 20s and the same row as the x3s . If the grid consists of shapes of varying sizes colors or other features a feature square shape for example could always be in the same column but the position in the column could change. Maintaining the reference point in a column or row with points of a common characteristic provides some assistance to the user in finding the reference point while maintaining the added security of randomly altering the location of the reference point.

In still another embodiment the grid is randomly generated in response to a user input such as but not limited to a gesture selecting a key and a sequence of keystrokes. For example with a device with an accelerometer shaking could reset the grid. In other embodiments the modified base image or the modified overlay image or both could be programmed to reset after a predetermined period of time.

Referring to a computing device will be described. In some embodiments the computing device is a mobile communications device such as the mobile device described herein. However it is to be understood that the computing device can be any computing device. Non limiting examples include a personal computer laptop computer tablet device personal digital assistant PDA mobile telephone smart phone bank machine an access device for allowing access to a building or room and an electronic controller for controlling systems or equipment.

The computing device comprises the graphical computer readable media a display and a processor . The display is used to display the modified base image and the modified overlay image. In some embodiments a user interface is part of the display. The processor for executing the instructions. In some embodiments the computing device also comprises the first memory and the second memory. The computing device in some embodiments also comprises a flash memory on which the authentication module is located.

In some embodiments dedicated controls are provided on the computing device for moving the representations of the base image or the overlay image or both.

It is to be understood that the embodiments described herein are not limited to one base image and one overlay image. Multiple layers of images are possible. Furthermore multiple reference points on each layer are also possible.

Referring now to the screens shots of to a specific implementation of a proposed method will be described. shows a base image including a number of objects that can be selected as a reference point a tree a flower a person a bird a sun and a cloud. In this example the user has selected the flower as the base image reference point and has selected the flower as the preselected portion of the display and a color represented in with dots for the flower as the pre selected color of the portion of the display. In an overlay image which is a grid of numbers from 1 to 12 is shown. In this case the user has selected number 8 as the overlay image reference point . In other embodiments the grid need not be presented to the user to do the selection. A dialogue box can be presented asking the user to select a number between for example 1 and 12. Referring to to start the authentication of the user a modified base image is presented overlaid with a modified overlay image . In the modified base image the position of the flower has been altered. In some embodiments the position of the base image reference point varies with each authentication attempt. In other embodiments the modified base image remains the same with each authentication. In modified overlay image the order of the numbers in the grid has been altered so that the overlay reference point is in a different position. It is to be understood that in some embodiments the order of the numbers in the grid remains the same. In some embodiments the numbers can appear more than once in the modified overlay image. In some embodiments the modified overlay image extends beyond the edges of the display so that new numbers or objects come into view as the modified overlay image is moved on the display. This makes it difficult for an observer to determine the overlay image reference point. Referring to the modified overlay image is moved so that the overlay image reference point is aligned with the base image reference point . shows that the flower has changed color to the pre selected color. If a user selection of the color is detected while the flower is this color positive authentication is indicated. As mentioned above other embodiments are possible and to represent one specific embodiment.

While the present disclosure is sometimes described in terms of methods a person of ordinary skill in the art will understand that the present disclosure is also directed to various apparatus including components for performing at least some of the aspects and features of the described methods be it by way of hardware components software or any combination of the two or in any other manner. Moreover an article of manufacture for use with the apparatus such as a pre recorded storage device or other similar computer readable medium including program instructions recorded thereon may direct an apparatus to facilitate the practice of the described methods. It is understood that such apparatus and articles of manufacture also come within the scope of the present disclosure.

The various embodiments presented above are merely examples and are in no way meant to limit the scope of this disclosure. Variations of the innovations described herein will be apparent to persons of ordinary skill in the art such variations being within the intended scope of the present application. In particular features from one or more of the above described embodiments may be selected to generate alternative embodiments comprised of a sub combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. In addition features from one or more of the above described embodiments may be selected and combined to generate alternative embodiments comprised of a combination of features which may not be explicitly described above. Features suitable for such combinations and sub combinations would be readily apparent to persons skilled in the art upon review of the present application as a whole. The subject matter described herein and in the recited claims intends to cover and embrace all suitable changes in technology.

