---

title: Ranking advertisement(s) based upon advertisement feature(s)
abstract: While browsing, a user may interact with a wide variety of images. The user may upload and share images taken with a digital camera and/or search for image using a search engine. Because images are rich in contextual information, it may be advantageous to provide additional information, such as adjacent market advertising based upon matching advertisements with contextual information of the images. Accordingly, a query image may be used to retrieve a video frame set. The video frame set may be expanded with related video frames corresponding to adjacent markets. The expanded video frame set may be grouped into clusters of similar frames. The clusters may be used to rank advertisements based upon how similar the advertisements are to the clusters and/or video frames within the clusters. In this way, one or more ranked advertisements may be presented with the query image.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08620912&OS=08620912&RS=08620912
owner: Microsoft Corporation
number: 08620912
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100616
---
Many online users discover share and interact with images when exploring the internet. In one example a user may upload photos from a mobile phone to a photo sharing website. In another example a search engine may return images in response to a user submitting a query to the search engine for images relating to particular subject matter. It may be advantageous to leverage information associated with images to provide users with additional relevant information such as advertisements. For example an image returned by a search engine to a user may comprise additional information that may be extracted to determine related content that may appeal to the user. In this way advertisements potentially relevant to the additional interests of the user may be provided as well. Unfortunately current techniques provide advertisements based upon directly matching visual and textual features but do not consider adjacent markets associated with the image. For example an image may comprise an image of a mountain. If however the image does not contain visual or textual features relating to adjacent subject matter that the user may also be interested in such as sport utility vehicles or mountaineering equipment for example then information regarding these adjacent markets may not be provided potentially missing a targeted marketing opportunity.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

Among other things one or more systems and or techniques for ranking ads advertisements based upon a query image are disclosed herein. In one example a query image may be an image returned by a general purpose search engine in response to a search query by a user. In another example a query image may be an image uploaded by a user of a social network. It may be appreciated that a query image may be any image or group of images and is not limited to a single image or an image returned by a search engine. It may be appreciated that the query image may comprise visual and or textual features associated with the query image e.g. visual data and textual data within the query image metadata describing the query image surrounding text associated with the query image etc. . The query image may be used to retrieve a video frame set. In particular visual textual and or other descriptive features of the query image may be used to retrieve video frames having similar features. For example features of the query image may be matched with extracted features and or annotation data of video frames within a large scale video frame database.

Because the video frame set may comprise video frames directly relevant to the query image the video frame set may be expanded to comprise related video frames which may correlate to adjacent market content. In this way an expanded video frame set may comprise related video frames indicative of potential adjacent markets of the query image. In one example a video frame within the video frame set may be used to determine related video frames. In particular other video frames within a video comprising the video frame may be determined as related video frames.

The expanded video frame set may be grouped into one or more clusters. The one or more clusters may be defined based upon at least one of visual features and textual features extracted from the expanded video frame set. For example a query image may be an image of a car and a video frame set may comprise cars driving on a mountain trail people eating in cars car crashes cars being loaded onto a plane for transportation etc. The video frame set may be expanded with expanded video frames about cars mountains pizza biscuits tires insurance companies credit cards planes etc. Features such as cars vacations food etc. may be extracted from the expanded video frame set. The features may be used to define clusters such as a food cluster a car cluster a scenery cluster a tire cluster an insurance package cluster etc. In one example a multimodal Dirichlet Process Mixture Sets model may be used to define clusters based upon the expanded video frame set. It may be appreciated that a topic may be assigned to a cluster based upon visual features and or textual features of the cluster features of video frames within the cluster .

Ads e.g. advertisements may be ranked based upon the one or more clusters. It may be appreciated that an ad database may comprise textual video audio image and or other types of advertisements. If the ad database comprises video ads then the ad database may comprise ad frames keyframes associated with the video ads. The ad frames of a video may be ranked using the one or more clusters and the video may be ranked based upon the ranked ad frames of the video. In one example of ranking ads a multimodal Dirichlet Process Mixture Sets model may be executed upon the ads using the one or more clusters. In one example the ads may be ranked based upon a multimodal Dirichlet Process Mixture Sets model that may rank ads e.g. textual ads video ads ad frames of video ads image ads etc. based upon ads corresponding to having similar features as topics associated with the one or more clusters. In another example the multimodal Dirichlet Process Mixture Sets model may rank the ads based upon ads corresponding to having similar features as extracted features of video frames within the one or more clusters. In another example ad frames may be ranked based upon features of the ad frames corresponding to features of the one or more clusters. Ads video ads may be ranked based upon rankings of ad frames of the respective videos ads. One or more of the ranked ads may be presented.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are illustrated in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Many companies advertise products and promote ideas through Internet advertising. One goal of effective advertising is to provide users with advertisements that the user may find compelling and or interesting. For example advertisements relating to content with which a user is engaged may be provided in an attempt to provide products and or ideas matching the user s interests. Current techniques may attempt to directly match content such as a query image with an advertisement. Unfortunately directly matching a query image to an advertisement may fail to identify advertisements from adjacent markets. That is current techniques may not adequately cross sell products and ideas between markets having less than a direct correlation. In one example a query image may comprise an image of pizza. Advertisements directly matching the pizza may include pizza pubs frozen pizza products and or other advertisements directly relating to pizza. However current techniques may not be able to determine adjacent markets such as soft drink products antacid products roller skate products and or other advertisements from markets adjacent to the pizza market.

Accordingly one or more systems and or techniques for ranking ads are provided herein. In particular query images and video frames may be leveraged to determine advertisements. The advertisements may relate to adjacent markets with respect to a query image. For example a sports car query image may comprise a sports car made by Car Company. Current techniques may merely suggest advertisements for different models of cars made by Car Company based upon directly matching visual and textual features of the sports car query image. However the techniques described herein may suggest advertisements of adjacent markets such as tires insurance companies tourist resorts etc.

One embodiment of ranking ads is illustrated by an exemplary method in . At the method beings. At a video frame set may be retrieved based upon a query image. In one example a query image may be one or more images associated with a database a website search engine results and or images from other sources. The query image may comprise features such as visual features textual features and or descriptive features. Features may be extracted from image data of the query image e.g. colorsift data sift gist color histogram wavelet texture etc. metadata of the query image and or surrounding content of the query image. It may be appreciated that a video frame set may comprise one or more video frames. In one example a video frame may be a keyframe from a video. The keyframe may be annotated with close caption data and or image auto tagging data.

In one example of retrieving a video frame set video frames visually and or semantically similar to the query image may be extracted. That is video frames having features similar to features of the query image may be retrieved for example from a large scale video frame database. In this way video frames similar to the query image may be retrieved as the video frame set.

At the video frame set may be expanded with one or more related video frames. In one example a related video frame may be determined based upon the related video frame occurring within a video comprising a video frame within the video frame set. In another example a related video frame may be determined based upon the related video frame having features similar to features of a video frame within the video frame set. It may be appreciated that video frames may be extracted as related video frames through a variety of techniques that may determine video frames relating to adjacent markets. In one illustrative example a query image may comprise an image of a pizza. A video frame set comprising a pizza delivery car video frame and or other video frames may be retrieved. A related video frame comprising a tire video frame may be determined. In one example the tire video frame may be determined as a related video frame because the tire video frame and the pizza delivery car video frame may be comprised within the same video. In another example the tire video frame may be determined as a related video frame because the tire video frame and the pizza delivery car video frame may have similar features. It may be appreciated that references to video frames within the expanded video frame set may be interpreted as both video frames and related video frames within the expanded video frame set.

At the expanded video frame set video frames related video frames within the expanded video frame set may be grouped into one or more clusters. Grouping the expanded video frame set into clusters may provide organization of video frames within the expanded video frame set based upon features extracted from the expanded video frame set. In particular video frames having similar features may be grouped together. For example video frames relating to restaurants may be grouped into a restaurant cluster.

The one or more clusters may be defined based upon visual textual and or descriptive features of video frames within the expanded video frame set. For example the expanded video frame set may comprise video frames relating to beaches sea life cars nightlife tools romantic dinners resorts particular landmarks etc. Visual textual and or descriptive features of the video frames may be extracted. The extracted features may be used to define clusters. In one example a multimodal Dirichlet Process Mixture Sets model may be used to define clusters based upon extracted features of the video frames. That is the multimodal Dirichlet Process Mixture Sets model may be executed upon the expanded video frame set to define one or more cluster. The multimodal Dirichlet Process Mixture Sets model may be used to group video frames having similar features into corresponding clusters. For example a restaurant cluster may be defined based upon at least some video frames relating to restaurants or food. That is a sufficient number of video frames may relate to restaurants thus a cluster may be defined for restaurant such that video frames relating to restaurants may be grouped into the restaurant cluster. In this way the video frames within the expanded video frame set may be grouped into the corresponding clusters. For example video frames having features relating to vacations may be grouped into a vacation cluster.

It may be appreciated that a topic may be assigned to a cluster. That is the topic may describe a commonality between video frames within a cluster. In one example a topic may be a category of a cluster derived from visual textual and or descriptive features of video frames within the cluster.

At ads may be ranked based upon the one or more clusters. In particular an ad may be ranked based upon at least some of the ad corresponding to topics assigned to the one or more clusters and or extracted features of video frames within the one or more clusters. In one example a multimodal Dirichlet Process Mixture Sets model may be executed upon the ads using the one or more clusters to rank ads. In particular ads having features similar to topics assigned to the one or more cluster and or features similar to features of video frames within the clusters may be ranked higher than ads lacking features similar to the clusters and or video frames.

In one example an ad may be a video advertisement. One or more ad frames of the video advertisement may be ranked based upon features of the ad frames corresponding to features of the one or more clusters. In this way the video advertisement may be ranked based upon rankings of ad frames of the video advertisement. One or more of the ranked ads may be presented. For example a video ad for tires and a textual ad for car insurance may be presented. At the method ends.

One embodiment of presenting ranked ads corresponding to a query image is illustrated by an exemplary method in . At the method begins. It may be appreciated that a large scale video frame database may comprise one or more video frames. A video frame may have features such as visual features derived from image tagging techniques textual features derived from close caption techniques and surrounding text and or other features describing the video frame. In one example a video frame may be annotated based upon the features of the video frame. This allows for features of a video frame to be compared with features of other data such as query images.

At a video frame set may be retrieved based upon a query image. The video frame set may comprise one or more video frames of a video frame database. For example video frames have visually and or textually similar features as the query image may be retrieved. At the video frame set may be expanded with one or more related video frames. For example related video frames contextually associated with video frames within the video frame set e.g. video frames within the same video may be added into the video frame set. At visual features e.g. a visual sift descriptors a determination that water is depicted within a video frame a determination that a building is depicted within a video frame etc. textual features e.g. annotated data of a video frame close caption data etc. and or descriptive features may be extracted from the video frame set.

At one or more clusters may be defined based upon the extracted features. For example a feature of car tires may be extracted from the video frame set e.g. multiple video frames may comprise car tire features . In this way a cluster for car tires may be defined. At a topic may be assigned to the one or more clusters. For example a cluster defined for car tires may be assigned a car tire topic. It may be appreciated that features of ads may be compared with topics of clusters to determine whether ads correlate to clusters and or video frames within clusters.

At an ad e.g. a textual advertisement a video advertisement an audio advertisement an image advertisement etc. may be ranked based upon at least some of the ad corresponding to topics assigned to the one or more clusters and or extracted features of video frames within the one or more clusters. In one example a multimodal Dirichlet Process Mixture Sets model may be executed upon the ad using the one or more clusters. In particular ads having features similar to topics assigned to the one or more clusters and or features similar to features of video frames within the clusters may be ranked higher than ads lacking features similar to the clusters and or video frames. At one or more ranked ads may be presented. For example a predetermined number of ads having a predetermined rank threshold may be presented while other lower ranked ads are not. At the method ends.

The frame set expander may be configured to expand the video frame set into an expanded video frame set based upon one or more related video frames. For example the frame set expander may be configured to determine a related video frame based upon the related video frame occurring within a video that also comprises a video frame within the video frame set . The cluster generator may be configured to group the expanded video frame set into one or more clusters . That is the cluster generator may generate clusters of similar video frames within the expanded video frame set . For example video frames having similar features may be grouped together in a cluster based upon a multimodal Dirichlet Process Mixture Sets model. The cluster generator may be configured to assign topics to the one or more clusters based upon visual features and or textual features of the clusters e.g. features of video frames grouped within a cluster .

The ad ranker may be configured to rank ads based upon the one or more clusters. For example the ad ranker may be configured to execute a multimodal Dirichlet Process Mixture Sets model upon the ads using the one or more clusters . In particular the ad ranker may rank an ad based upon at least some of the ad corresponding to topics assigned to the one or more clusters and or extracted features of video frames within the one or more clusters . The presentation component may be configured to present the ranked ads .

The query image of a car may be worth a thousand words when determining additional content that the user may find interesting. For example the query image may be used to determine advertisements that either directly relate to the query image e.g. other car models car pricing etc. and or adjacent marketing advertisements that indirect relate to the query image e.g. tires insurance loans etc. . Unfortunately many current advertising techniques may return advertisements directly related to the query image but may miss out on advertisements of adjacent markets.

In one example the video frame set may comprise a car video frame a car accident video frame a car racing video frame and or other video frames. The frame set retriever may determine a tire video frame may correlate to the car video frame within the video frame set e.g. the tire video frame and the car video frame may be a part of the same video . Thus the tire video frame may be determined as a related video frame. An insurance video frame may be determined as a related video frame because the insurance video frame may correlate to the car accident video frame within the video frame set e.g. the insurance video frame and the car accident video frame may be a part of the same video . A race car sponsored by a beverage company video frame may be determined as a related video frame because the race car sponsored by a beverage company video frame may correlate to the race racing frame within the video frame set e.g. the race car sponsored by a beverage company video frame and the car racing video frame may have similar features . The expanded video frame set may comprise the video frames and at least some of the related video frames.

In one example the expanded video frame set may comprise a snorkeling frame a sea life frame a beer frame a car frame a tire frame an accident frame a phone call frame a vacuum frame a monitor frame and or a plethora of other video frames. The clusters may be defined based upon features of the expanded video frame set e.g. visual and or textual features of the video frames within the expanded video frame set . For example a vacation cluster may be defined based upon extracted features of swimming drinking marine life water activities resorts etc. In this way video frames having similar features as the vacation cluster may be grouped within the vacation cluster e.g. snorkeling frame sea life frame beer frame etc. . A car cluster may be defined based upon extracted features of tires cars accidents insurance car wash etc. In this way video frames having similar features as the car cluster may be grouped within the car cluster e.g. car frame accident frame tire frame etc. . A computer cluster may be defined based upon extracted features of mobile phone peripherals video cards appliances etc. In this way video frames having similar features as the computer cluster may be grouped within the computer cluster e.g. a phone call frame a vacuum frame a monitor frame etc. . The clusters comprise groupings of video frames having similar features.

The ads within the ad database may comprise features such as visual e.g. color descriptors textual and or descriptive e.g. annotated data features that may be extracted. The extracted features of the ads may be compared with features of clusters and or video frames within clusters to determine similarity relevancy between the ads and a query image associated with the clusters of video frames. For example a multimodal Dirichlet Process Mixtures Sets model may be used to compare the ads with the clusters. In this way ads within the ad database may be ranked based upon how interesting an ad may be to a user viewing the query image. It may be appreciated that higher ranked ads may be advantageous to present to a user viewing the query image because the user may be interested in the subject matter of the higher ranked ads due to a high correlation between the higher ranked ads and the query image.

Because ads may be in a video format ad frames may be extracted stored and or annotated within the ad frame database . For example insurance video ad frames may be associated with the insurance video ad . That is the insurance video ad may comprise insurance video ad frames of a multi car accident a car driver crying a person hurt and or other ad frames representing keyframes of the insurance video ad . The beverage commercial frames may be associated with the beverage commercial . That is the beverage commercial may comprise beverage commercial frames of a soccer game a basketball game an athlete drinking a sports drink and or other ad frames representing keyframes of the beverage commercial . The cell phone commercial frames may be associated with the cell phone commercial . That is the cell phone commercial may comprise cell phone commercial frames of a girl texting a person at a computer texting a family posing and or other ad frames representing keyframes of the cell phone commercial .

In one example the ad ranker may rank hundreds of ads within the ad database . For example an insurance ad may be ranked high because the insurance ad may have features similar to the clusters such as the car cluster. A cell phone commercial may be ranked high because the cell phone commercial may have features similar to the clusters such as the computer cluster. A tanning lotion ad may be ranked medium high because the tanning lotion ad may have features similar to the clusters such as the vacation cluster. A dish detergent ad may be ranked low because the dish detergent ad may not have features similar to features within the clusters . In this way ads may be ranked based upon the clusters and or video frames within the clusters. It may be appreciated that a variety of ranking methods are contemplated as falling within the claimed subject matter e.g. 0 to 1 0 to 100 low to high etc. .

Ads may be ranked based upon how similar ads are to the clusters. Ads similar to the features of a cluster may be ranked high while ads lacking similar features may be ranked low. For example a tire commercial may be ranked high because features of the tire commercial e.g. tire car and or other features may relate to features of video frames grouped within clusters associated with the query image . The tire commercial may be presented to a user engaged with the search engine .

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to implement one or more of the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to one or more of the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable computer instructions may be configured to perform a method such as the exemplary method of and or exemplary method of for example. In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system such as the exemplary system of for example. Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 13134 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via a network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

