---

title: Folded coaxial radio frequency mirror
abstract: A coaxial mirror is provided for reflecting an electromagnetic signal. The mirror includes an outer pipe, an inner pipe, and first and second rods. The outer pipe extends between input and output ports, with closed initial and final terminals disposed at their respective ports. The inner pipe extends between a closed fore end and an open aft end. The inner pipe is coaxially disposed between the initial and final terminals within the outer pipe. The first rod, coaxially disposed within the outer pipe, extends from the input port to the fore end. The second rod, coaxially disposed within the inner pipe, extends from downstream of the fore end to the output port. Preferably, the first and second pipes are cylindrical tubes. Preferably, fluoropolymer fills the annular region between the inner and outer pipes, and fluoropolymer foam fills the inner pipe. Preferably, the first pipe has an electrically conductive inner surface, the second pipe has electrically conductive inner and outer surfaces, and the first and second rods have conductive surfaces. A first embodiment includes a conductor, coaxially disposed within the inner pipe, that extends from the fore end to the second rod. In a second embodiment, the second rod is hollow, and is preferably filled with the foam.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08717123&OS=08717123&RS=08717123
owner: The United States of America as Represented by the Secretary of the Navy
number: 08717123
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100917
---
The invention described was made in the performance of official duties by one or more employees of the Department of the Navy and thus the invention herein may be manufactured used or licensed by or for the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without the payment of any royalties thereon or therefor.

The invention relates generally to coaxial radio frequency RF mirrors. In particular the invention relates to a more convenient design intended for field application.

Radar applications incorporate narrow band filtering under inelastic scattering in which a strong continuous wave transmission signal at a transmit wavelength encounters a target that returns a faint echo at a return wavelength slightly shifted from the transmit wavelength. This condition contrasts from elastic scattering that lacks the wavelength shift in return signal. The radar receiver thus listens for a weak return signal near the frequency of the stronger transmit signal. Narrow band filtering employs co axial RF mirrors to reflect the signal through a gain medium to enable detection.

A coaxial RF mirror can be employed to provide narrow band filtering. However conventional RF mirrors lack qualities that facilitate field use due to design constraints that render these delicate and awkward.

Conventional coaxial RF mirrors yield disadvantages addressed by various exemplary embodiments of the present invention. In particular the exemplary embodiments described herein improve the ability to field such electromagnetic reflectors with increased ruggedness and reduced length.

Various exemplary embodiments provide a coaxial mirror for reflecting an electromagnetic signal. The mirror includes an outer pipe an inner pipe and first and second rods. The outer pipe extends between input and output ports with closed initial and final terminals disposed at their respective ports. The inner pipe extends between a closed fore end and an open aft end. The inner pipe is coaxially disposed between the initial and final terminals within the outer pipe. The first rod coaxially disposed within the outer pipe extends from the input port to the fore end. The second rod coaxially disposed within the inner pipe extends from downstream of the fore end to the output port.

Preferably the outer and inner pipes are cylindrical tubes. Preferably fluoropolymer fills the annular region between the inner and outer pipes and fluoropolymer foam fills the inner pipe. Preferably the outer pipe has an electrically conductive inner surface the inner pipe has electrically conductive inner and outer surfaces and the first and second rods have conductive surfaces. In various exemplary embodiments the mirror includes a conductor coaxially disposed within the inner pipe which extends from the fore end to the second rod. In alternate exemplary embodiments the second rod is hollow and is preferably filled with the foam.

In the following detailed description of exemplary embodiments of the invention reference is made to the accompanying drawings that form a part hereof and in which is shown by way of illustration specific exemplary embodiments in which the invention may be practiced. These embodiments are described in sufficient detail to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Other embodiments may be utilized and logical mechanical and other changes may be made without departing from the spirit or scope of the present invention. The following detailed description is therefore not to be taken in a limiting sense and the scope of the present invention is defined only by the appended claims.

An inner tube assembly includes an inner cylindrical tube defined by an inlet end and an open outlet boundary to define a second cavity that leads to an outlet section filled with fluoropolymer foam. The outlet section extends between the outlet boundary and the outlet end . In exemplary embodiments the assembly and the outlet section respectively extend 0.07 meter and 0.01 meter in length. An electrically conductive pin extends downstream from the inlet end to an aft rod that extends through the outlet end to an outlet port that attaches to an SMA type output connector . In exemplary embodiments the pin extends 0.01 meter.

An input signal is received through the input connector and into the first cavity travelling along the interior walls of the outer cylindrical tube in a downstream direction . The signal travels along the annular concentric region between the inner wall of the outer cylindrical tube and the outer wall of the inner cylindrical tube . The signal reverses propagation direction upon reaching the outlet boundary and proceeds to travel in the upstream direction along the inner wall of the inner cylindrical tube . The signal reverses propagation direction upon reaching the inlet end and travels in the downstream direction along the exterior of the aft rod until exiting as an output signal .

The forward section defines a first region for signal propagation filled with air. An outer annular envelope defines a second region between the cylindrical tubes and which is enveloped with fluoropolymer such as polytetrafluoroethylene under tradename Teflon such as wrapping with tape of that material. A third region includes an inner annular envelope that defines the second cavity minus the aft rod contained in the inner cylindrical tube . The second cavity is filled with fluoropolymer foam. The aft section also filled with fluoropolymer foam constitutes a terminal region before reaching signal exit.

 1 the forward section that defines the first cavity and includes the outer cylindrical tube with inner diameter of 2 rand fore rod with outer diameter of 2 r 

 2 the outer annular envelope that includes the outer cylindrical tube with inner diameter of 2 r identical to 2 r and inner cylindrical tube with outer diameter of 2 r and

 3 the inner annular envelope that defines the second cavity and includes inner cylindrical tube with inner diameter of 2 rand aft rod with outer diameter of 2 r.

The second tabular list in includes the permeability and the permittivity of the cavities of the three regions with the filling materials identified alongside. The third tabular list in includes the impedance Z of each of the three regions.

In the first tabular list in listing inner and outer diameter boundaries of the three cavity regions the first row for the forward section or first region identifies the outer diameter of the fore rod as 2 r 0.00635 m and the inner diameter of the outer cylindrical tube as 2 r 0.0340 m. The second row for the outer envelope or second region identifies the outer diameter of the inner cylindrical tube as 2 r 0.0338 m and the inner diameter of the outer cylindrical tube as 2 r 0.0340 m. The third row for the inner envelope or third region within the cavity identifies the outer diameter of the aft rod as 2 r 0.0036 m and the inner diameter of the inner cylindrical tube as 2 r 0.03048 m. The diameters are denoted in the mirror as double radii.

In the second tabular list in all regions have substantially similar relative values of magnetic permeability proportional to the vacuum value of 4 10N A. Typical materials ranging from copper and aluminum to water share approximately this unity value treated as 1 for the three regions. By contrast comparative values of relative permittivity vary from aluminum at 1300 to strontium titanate at 310 proportional to the vacuum value of 8.854 10Askgm. The relative permittivity for air in the first region is approximately unity as 1 whereas 2.1 in the second region represents the corresponding relative permittivity value for Teflon and 1.65 in the third region provides an intermediate value of relative permittivity for a Teflon foam mixture. In the third tabular list the first and third and terminal regions have an impedance of Z Z 100 and the second region has a lower impedance of Z 0.244 .

Values of permeability for the four regions listed in all correspond approximately to unity 1 respectively for air Teflon and Teflon foam mixture. Values of permittivity for these regions include 1 for air in the first section 2.1 for Teflon in the outer envelope and 1.65 for the Teflon foam mixture in the inner envelopes and . Values for impedance for these corresponding regions include Z Z Z 100 and Z 0.244 .

The folded coaxial RF mirror is to be used in a field deployable RF Fabry Perot interferometer used in a RF Brillouin Scattering radar. The mirror reduces the overall size and increases the ruggedness of a more conventional RF mirror. Conventionally a coaxial RF mirror may be constructed from co linear concatenated sections of coaxial transmission line alternating between sections with high and low characteristic impedance. Because each section of the mirror is quarter wavelength long at the center frequency of the mirror s operation the conventional co linear mirror can be quite lengthy at low frequencies.

For a mirror made from rigid materials the need for a dielectric Bragg mirror to have a high Q resonation necessitates the construction of the mirror from a metal such as copper having very high conductivity. However copper is a relatively soft metal and prone to bending or crushing as well as being a difficult material to machine. Conceivably a coaxial. RF mirror could also be constructed from flexible cable but such a mirror would have degraded performance. This is because the performance of this mirror although improves as the impedance contrast increases it can be difficult to obtain a great deal of contrast between the characteristic impedances utilizing commercially available coaxial cable.

Multiple coaxial cables such as assemblies and are nested within each other to achieve the requisite alternating high and low characteristic impedances. The radii are varied and dielectrics can be carefully selected to achieve the desired characteristic impedance in each section. The mirror demonstrates an exemplary embodiment with three folded sections. However the design can be easily extendable to an arbitrary number of folded sections.

The input side has a section of 50 transmission line of arbitrary length terminated with a General Radio Type 874 GR874 input connector or type N and the output side has a section of 50 semi rigid coax of arbitrary length terminated with an SMA output connector . In the cross section diagram of mirror and the first table the notations r r rsignify the radii of the inner conductor being outer peripheries of the respective fore rod inner tube and the aft rod and r r rthe radii of the outer conductor of the respective first second and third sections of coaxial transmission line being inner surfaces of the outer tube in the first and second sections and the inner surface of the inner tube . In the cross section diagram of mirror and the third table the notations rand r r respectively signify the inner and outer radii of the hollow tube . This structure for the mirror is thus physically shorter than the conventional design due to the nesting of the coaxial transmission lines. The mirror can be constructed of silver or gold plated brass to maintain the high Q and improve the ruggedness of the structure. The layers and can be selectively coated with such electrically conductive metals.

Interferometer tests have been conducted with three and one half wavelength 3 quarter wave tube of copper with slugs to provide a mirror antenna for ultra high frequency UHF waves. The phenomenon absorption and release of energy by photons from electron shells via acoustic travel has been demonstrated in the past. This can also be accomplished with radio waves but with greater power levels because signal resolution from scatter cross section diminishes as the fourth power of frequency as or of the wavelength inverse as . Electromagnetic signals are typically employ much shorter wavelengths than acoustic signals.

While certain features of the embodiments of the invention have been illustrated as described herein many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

