---

title: Slit aperture for diffraction range finding system
abstract: A method and system for forming a focused image on an image plane of a diffraction range finder with a variable pitch diffraction grating. Diffracted light is propagated through a lens and slit assembly and onto an image plane of a camera, the diffracted light having been diffracted by the variable pitch diffraction grating. The lens and slit assembly includes lens elements and a slit. The slit is surrounded by opaque material that is opaque to the diffracted light passing through the slit. The slit has a shape characterized by a long dimension and a short dimension that is shorter than the long dimension.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08520191&OS=08520191&RS=08520191
owner: 3Dewitt, LLC
number: 08520191
owner_city: Ancramdale
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100505
---
This Continuation In Part application claims priority to U.S. Non Provisional Application Ser. No. 12 554 363 filed Sep. 4 2009 now abandoned with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and incorporated herein in its entirety which claims priority to a U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 094 445 filed Sep. 5 2008 with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office.

The invention described herein may be manufactured and used by the Government of the United States of America for governmental purposes without payment of any royalties thereon.

The present invention relates to a means to increase to sensitivity and focus acuity in diffraction range finders by substitution of a slit aperture for a pinhole aperture.

Range finding by diffraction is comprised of the methods devices and systems used to measure distance through exploitation of a phenomenon observed with diffraction gratings wherein the displacement between diffraction images of the various diffraction orders can be correlated to the distance from the grating to an observed source of energy illuminating the grating. Higher order diffraction images of a target are reconstructed at a receiver which has a means to focus the radiation onto a transducer that can sense the position of the higher order diffraction images. As a target is moved toward or away from a grating surface the relative displacement of a higher order image from both the zero order image and other higher orders images can be measured so as to take target range. The present inventor has demonstrated such a range finder under grants from the National Science Foundation NSF DMI 9420321 . When the diffraction grating is the hologram of a point source and the target is positioned at an angle of grazing incidence relative to the grating it is possible to form profiles in the microscopic regime. Such an embodiment was developed under a grant from the National Science Foundation NSF IIP 0724428 .

The basis of the present invention derives from U.S. Pat. No. 6 490 028 VARIABLE PITCH GRATING FOR DIFFRACTION RANGE FINDING SYSTEM issued to Ditto and Lyon on Dec. 3 2002 hereinafter 028 patent . As illustrated by in the 028 patent supra and reproduced here as in accordance with the prior art a lens is employed to focus higher order diffraction images inside camera . Exemplary rays are traced from range points on light beam along rays through variable pitch diffraction grating after which ray bundles are brought to a focus inside camera . The rays cross through a point at a perspective center inside lens . This point is a pinhole approximation of a lens. When an actual lens is used alternative ray paths in bundles and will result in a less than optimal focus at the receiver most particularly when the grating is a variable pitch grating also called a chirped grating .

The utility of a pinhole at lens of can be appreciated by an understanding of the fabrication of the variable pitch grating itself. The variable pitch grating used in the 028 Patent supra can be fabricated by means of holography. A variable pitch hologram can be created through the intersection of a plane wave originating from a collimator and a spherical wave originating from the pinhole aperture in a spatial filter a process that is cited in 028 Patent supra by reference to U.S. Pat. No. 3 578 845 issued to Brooks et al. on May 18 1971 for Holographic Focusing Diffraction Gratings for Spectroscopes and Method of Making Same. 

The holographic optical train can be a recording process of the type illustrated in in accordance with the prior art. Laser produces a coherent monochromatic collimated beam of light which is divided by beam splitter into two beams . Spatial filter comprised of a combination lens and pinhole expands one beam into a spherical wave which is collimated by parabolic mirror and made incident as wavefront upon holographic recording plate set at angle i relative to incident plane wave . The other laser beam divided by beam splitter is also sent by folding mirrors to spatial filter where it is expanded into a spherical wave to be incident at the surface about normal to holographic plate . The wavefronts and interfere to cause a pattern that constitutes the variable pitch grating used in a diffraction range finder.

When a pinhole is used in lieu of lens in as per the illustrations of 028 Patent supra the images formed in camera are sharply focused. If the pinhole is of exactly the same diameter as the pinhole that was used to make the spherical wave in the fabrication of the hologram i.e. the variable pitch grating the resulting image formed on the image plane of the camera can be optimal in acuity. However very little light is captured by the camera from the point of origination along the light beam projected from laser because of the small dimensions of the pinhole. Alternatively a lens can be used in front of the camera but when a normal lens is used multiple ray paths through the lens create a focus blur in the final image.

The present invention provides a method for forming a focused image on an image plane of a diffraction range finder with a variable pitch diffraction grating said method comprising 

propagating diffracted light through a lens and slit assembly and onto an image plane of a camera said diffracted light having been diffracted by the variable pitch diffraction grating said lens and slit assembly comprising a plurality of lens elements and a slit said slit surrounded by opaque material that is opaque to the diffracted light passing through the slit said slit having a shape characterized by a long dimension and a short dimension that is shorter than the long dimension.

The present invention provides a system for forming a focused image on an image plane of a diffraction range finder with a variable pitch diffraction grating said system comprising 

a lens and slit assembly through which diffracted light may traverse after having been diffracted by the diffraction grating wherein the diffracted light is configured to form a focused image on an image plane of a camera after traversing the lens and slit assembly said lens and slit assembly comprising a plurality of lens elements and a slit said slit surrounded by opaque material that is opaque to the diffracted light configured to pass through the slit said slit having a shape characterized by a long dimension and a short dimension that is shorter than the long dimension.

The present invention uses a slit type aperture in the secondary of a diffraction range finder with a slit spacing equivalent to the diameter of a pinhole aperture used in the prior mathematical models and physical embodiments of diffraction range finders that use variable pitch gratings. The acuity of the image formed with a slit is comparable to the acuity of the image formed with a pinhole but better than ten times more light passes through the slit than passes through the pinhole. When the invention has an embodiment where a lens is used to collect light for the slit aperture the efficiency further improves as does the focus acuity.

The present invention increases the amount of light passed through the lens at the perspective center inside of a diffraction range finder.

The present invention specifies the shape of the aperture at the perspective center inside of a diffraction range finder.

The present invention generates sharply defined images at the transducer image plane of the camera inside of a diffraction range finder.

The present invention achieves a weight and size savings over range finding systems of equivalent performance based on mirrors and lenses.

The present invention is robust in operation and requires little maintenance or care. The present invention is extensible in application from a small scale instrument for microscopic range finding to large instruments for longer distances of many meters.

To appreciate the necessity of limiting the spatial dimensions of the pupil in a camera that uses a primary objective chirped grating the image formed without a pinhole iris can be modeled in the optical engineering program Zemax available from the Zemax Development Corporation of Bellingham WA. This software models the behavior of light as it passes through a hologram of the type illustrated by . The Zemax program also has features to model a stop such as a pinhole or a slit. Zemax software has analysis features that predict the acuity or focus of an image formed on the final image plane of a camera.

It can be appreciated by comparing that the ray bundles in are much broader in one of the two dimensions. This broadening of the ray bundles corresponds to an increase in the flux transmitted through the slit stop as compared with the paucity of flux that can be emitted from a pinhole. There are no attenuated rays denoted with dashed lines as there were in because all targets in are visible at the image plane .

Notably when the spot diagrams of from the pinhole and from the slit are compared the acuity or focus is nearly identical notwithstanding that the distribution of energy in the spot diagram of is elliptical and is rectangular. This subtle difference between pinhole and slit apertures in the shape of a resolved point may have some numerical consequences in image processing but is far less of an impediment in forming an image than when flux is simply not available as occurs for many targets imaged with a pinhole rather than a slit.

Although the invention can be implemented with a slit alone it is beneficial in one embodiment to place the slit at the position normally occupied by an iris diaphragm of a lens system. The use of a lens assembly allows greater latitude than the slit alone for variations in alignment relative to the diffraction grating of the diffraction range finder.

In and the iris diaphragm has been replaced with the slit aperture. The three front elements of the lens and the four rear elements of the lens form an image on the focal plane . and illustrate exemplary target rays that propagate along the x axis and interact with slit to produce reduced ray bundles after passing through the aperture of the slit which arrive at and focus on image plane . illustrates the masking of the ray bundle as seen facing the short dimension the slit wherein the axis of the slit is oriented in the z direction causing the passage of the ray bundle through the slit to be constrained by the short dimension of the slit . shows the transmission of the ray bundle as seen facing the long dimension of the slit wherein the axis of the slit is oriented in the z direction causing the passage of the ray bundle through the slit to be unconstrained by the long dimension of the slit if the long dimension of the slit is sufficiently long to enable the entire extent of the ray bundle in the z direction to pass through the slit. Thus FIG illustrates how ray bundle after the slit is not masked or attenuated in the number or rays by the presence of the slit aperture. The practical consequence is that the lens forms a focused image with the benefit of a slit aperture.

The spot diagram predicting focus acuity in is based on the use of the lens and a slit assembly with the performance being comparable to the focus acuity of a slit alone as shown in the spot diagram of . An image is formed within a rectilinear area which is roughly equivalent to the predicted resolving power of the system.

Although the shape of the slit in is rectangular the shape of the slit is generally any shape characterized by a long dimension in the z direction and a short dimension that is shorter than the long dimension. For example one or more edges of the four edges of the rectangular slit in may be replaced by a curved surface.

In one embodiment the slit is located in the lens and slit assembly where the iris diaphragm would be located in a conventional lens.

In one embodiment the slit is disposed between two successive lens elements of the plurality of lens elements of the lens and the slit assembly.

In one embodiment the slit is disposed between the camera and the plurality of lens elements of the lens and the slit assembly.

The improvement in flux collection of a slit over a pinhole having a 0.35 mm diameter in a diffraction range finder with a variable pitch grating has been measured by the inventors at 20 times the radiant flux at a similar level of focus acuity using a slit having a length of 9.1 mm a width of 0.35 mm and an aspect ratio i.e. length width of 26. The lens that held the preceding slit was Fujinon CF16HA 1 16 mm f 1.4 Industrial Lens Manual Iris and Focus for High Resolution C Mount Machine Vision Cameras for inch CCD.

The present invention has an advantage in the realization of a diffraction range finder with a variable pitch grating because it will operate at lower light levels. There is always a limit to the amount of radiant energy available at a target. The use of a slit over a pinhole aperture is roughly the equivalent to having a four f stop improvement in speed of a lens or an improvement from 64 to 1200 in the ISO number of a film. The improvement comes at no loss of acuity in the resulting image at the focal plane and without introducing any mechanical weakness in the imaging system. Use of a slit rather than a pinhole is unquestionably preferable for the design of a variable pitch grating diffraction range finder.

Diffraction range finders have many useful applications and the present invention provides an improvement in performance with regard to sensitivity that allows diffraction range finders to be used where previously it was not practical. Notably in applications for microscopy where specimens absorb light especially when combined with limits on allowable radiation from lasers the availability of a simple and effective improvement in sensitivity will have commercial benefits.

While embodiments of the present invention have been described herein for purposes of illustration many modifications and changes will become apparent to those skilled in the art. Accordingly the appended claims are intended to encompass all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit and scope of this invention.

