---

title: Transverse force, pressure and vibration sensors using piezoelectric nanostructures
abstract: An electrical device includes an insulating substrate; an elongated piezoelectric semiconductor structure, a first electrode and a second electrode. A first portion of the elongated piezoelectric semiconductor structure is affixed to the substrate and a second portion of the elongated piezoelectric semiconductor structure extends outwardly from the substrate. The first electrode is electrically coupled to a first end of the first portion of the elongated piezoelectric semiconductor structure. The second electrode is electrically coupled to a second end of the first portion of the elongated piezoelectric semiconductor structure.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08421052&OS=08421052&RS=08421052
owner: Georgia Tech Research Corporation
number: 08421052
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100813
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 61 234 009 filed Aug. 14 2009 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This application is a continuation in part of and claims the benefit of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 202 849 filed Sep. 2 2008 the entirety of which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was made with government support under contract No. W31P4Q 08 1 0009 awarded by the U.S. Army. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to gated electronic devices and more specifically to a gated electronic device that includes a nanoscale piezoelectric gating mechanism.

One dimensional 1D nano materials have profound applications in biological and chemical sensing mechanical force and mass sensing nano electromechanics optoelectronics and electronics and photonics. Nanodevices made using individual semiconductor nanowires nanotubes nanobelts are often laterally bonded on a flat substrate following the configuration of a field effect transistor FET in which the substrate serves as a gate electrode the current transported from the drain to source along the nanowire is controlled or tuned by the applied gate voltage or the chemical biochemical species adsorbed on the surface of the nanowires. It is known that zinc oxide ZnO nanostructures exhibit both piezoelectric properties while under strain and semiconducting properties.

Most of the current nanodevices using 1D nanomaterials are usually bonded at both two ends so that the two ends may not have the freedom to move. This type of configuration may not be advantageous for fabricating devices that simulate the action of hairy beams such as the hairy sensing mechanism inside an ear possibly preventing them from measuring nanoscale air or liquid flow.

Therefore there is a need for a piezoelectric FET made using a free standing ZnO wire for sensing transverse force vibration.

The disadvantages of the prior art are overcome by the present invention which in one aspect is an electrical device that includes an insulating substrate an elongated piezoelectric semiconductor structure a first electrode and a second electrode. A first portion of the elongated piezoelectric semiconductor structure is affixed to the substrate and a second portion of the elongated piezoelectric semiconductor structure extends outwardly from the substrate. The first electrode is electrically coupled to a first end of the first portion of the elongated piezoelectric semiconductor structure. The second electrode is electrically coupled to a second end of the first portion of the elongated piezoelectric semiconductor structure.

In another aspect the invention is a gated electrical device that includes an elongated piezoelectric semiconducting nanostructure a first electrode a second electrode an insulative material and a bias voltage source. The elongated piezoelectric semiconducting nanostructure includes a first portion and a second portion contiguous thereto. The first electrode is electrically coupled to a first end of the first portion of the elongated piezoelectric semiconducting nanostructure. The second electrode is electrically coupled to a second end spaced apart from the first end of the first portion of the elongated piezoelectric semiconducting nanostructure. The insulative material covers the first portion of the elongated piezoelectric semiconducting nanostructure so as to prevent bending of the first portion of the elongated piezoelectric semiconducting nanostructure while allowing the second portion of the elongated piezoelectric semiconducting nanostructure to bend. The bias voltage source is coupled between the first electrode and the second electrode. The bias voltage source has a voltage selected to cause current to flow through the first portion of the semiconductor elongated structure when the second portion of the elongated piezoelectric semiconductor structure is bent by a predetermined amount and not to cause current to flow through the first portion of the semiconductor elongated structure when the second portion of the elongated piezoelectric semiconductor structure is bent by less than the predetermined amount.

In yet another aspect the invention is a method of making a gated electrical device in which a first portion of an elongated piezoelectric semiconductor structure is placed on a non conductive substrate so that a second portion of the elongated piezoelectric semiconductor structure extends away from the substrate. A first metal is applied to a first end of the first portion of the elongated piezoelectric semiconductor structure so as to form a first electrode in electrical communication therewith. A second metal is applied to a second end spaced apart from the first end of the first portion of the elongated piezoelectric semiconductor structure so as to form a second electrode in electrical communication therewith.

These and other aspects of the invention will become apparent from the following description of the preferred embodiments taken in conjunction with the following drawings. As would be obvious to one skilled in the art many variations and modifications of the invention may be effected without departing from the spirit and scope of the novel concepts of the disclosure.

A preferred embodiment of the invention is now described in detail. Referring to the drawings like numbers indicate like parts throughout the views. Unless otherwise specifically indicated in the disclosure that follows the drawings are not necessarily drawn to scale. As used in the description herein and throughout the claims the following terms take the meanings explicitly associated herein unless the context clearly dictates otherwise the meaning of a an and the includes plural reference the meaning of in includes in and on. Also as used herein fine nanowire means a structure having a diameter of less than 5 m and a length of at least 23 m.

U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 586 095 and 7 220 310 both issued to Wang et al. disclose methods of making nanowires that may be used in the embodiments disclosed below and therefore these patents are incorporated herein by reference.

In one embodiment the invention is a vibration sensor employing at least one piezoelectric nanostructure such as a nanowire. A hearing aid embodiment employs an array of different nanowires having different resonant frequencies.

A zinc oxide ZnO nanowire or other nano structure such as a nanorod or nanobelt is placed on a substrate so that part of the nanowire extends from the substrate into the surrounding environment. The nanowire is secured to the substrate by two metal pads one on each side of the nanowire. The ZnO nanowire is piezoelectric so that if it is bent it generates an electrical potential between the two metal pads. By sensing this electrical potential the system can detect movement of the ZnO nanowire in a manner similar to the manner in which a hair cell such as one inside the inner ear detects motion such as the vibration of air molecules when a sound is created .

The resonant frequency of the nanowire is a function of its length and thickness. An array of these nanowires each having different length thickness parameters would be sensitive to the specific resonant frequencies corresponding to the different nanowires. For example one could construct an array of nanowires that corresponds to an auditory bandwidth. Employing an array of nanowires with a high density of nanowires in a small area can result in a high level of sensitivity. ZnO nanowires can be grown into arrays with controlled lengths and diameters so that a nanowire based hearing aid can cover a large frequency range.

Recent research in nanopiezotronics has studied the piezoelectric coupled properties of ZnO nanowires and nanorods for fabricating electronic components. Theoretical calculation has demonstrated that when a one end fastened zinc oxide ZnO nanowire or other nano scale structure vibrates it will generate a detectable electric signal at the fastened bottom end of the nanowire. The vibration of a ZnO nanowire can be tuned by the outer signal strength and frequency. Also the morphology of the ZnO nanowire such as length thickness can affect the resonance frequency of a nanowire. Therefore by detecting the electric signal generated from the nanowire vibration the system can then mimic the ion current influx in a hair cell and membrane.

As shown in one embodiment of a vibration sensor includes a substrate such as a silicon substrate from which an elongated piezoelectric nano scale structure for example a zinc oxide nanowire extends. A first electrical contact and a spaced apart second electrical contact are both disposed on a first surface of the substrate and are both in electrical communication with the base of the elongated piezoelectric nano scale structure . The first electrical contact and the second electrical contact could both include for example metal pads.

An electrical detector for example a voltage sensor is configured to detect a voltage potential difference between the first electrical contact and the second electrical contact that is generated due to the piezoelectric effect when the elongated piezoelectric nano scale structure is bent from a first state as shown in to a second state as shown in .

In one embodiment of a multi frequency vibration sensor as shown in an array of elongated piezoelectric nano scale structures can extend from the substrate . Each of the of elongated piezoelectric nano scale structures can have a different length so that each is resonant with a different frequency component of a vibrating system. A signal processor or a signal analyzer which is responsive to each of the elongated piezoelectric nano scale structures then generates a signal representative of the entire spectrum of vibration being sensed. This embodiment may be especially useful as a sensing element for a hearing aid.

In one embodiment of method of making a vibration sensor a shown in a substrate is placed into a tube furnace and ZnO powder is place upstream of the substrate in the tube furnace . The furnace is sealed and argon gas is pumped through the furnace at about 300 Torr and at about 50 SCCM . The furnace reaches a temperature corresponding to the evaporation temperature of ZnO and is maintained at that temperature for about two hours . The furnace is allowed to cool and the substrate is removed from the furnace . Metal pads are then applied to the bases of the nanowires which may be done for example using an atomic force microscope.

In one embodiment the vibration sensors disclosed herein mimic the mechanism of how a hair cell works which potentially can be applied as an advanced category of hearing aid device option. Such sensors may find utility in many other types of applications such as remote sound sensing systems.

This system offers several advantages including 1 Because the electric signal is generated from the nanowire vibration it is a self power device. This eliminates a significant burden on the power source 2 With the small and adjustable size of ZnO nanowires they can easily be incorporated into the human cochlear system without affecting other functional hair cells in the ear and 3 ZnO is biocompatible material

As shown in one embodiment of a force gated field effect transistor includes a non conducting substrate such as a glass or crystalline substrate onto which a first portion of a piezoelectric semiconducting fine nanowire such as a zinc oxide nanowire is placed so that a second contiguous portion of the fine nanowire extends beyond the substrate . The first portion is secured to the substrate with a first metal conductor such as a silver electrode and a second spaced apart metal conductor such as a gold electrode . Two conductors and are in electrical communication with the first metal conductor and the second metal conductor and a bias voltage V is applied therebetween. The bias voltage which could be sourced from a battery or the like is selected so that when a force F applied to the second portion is of sufficient intensity to bend by at least a deflection D then a current I will flow between the first metal conductor and the second metal conductor . Also when the force is insufficient to cause the second portion to bend by deflection D then current will substantially fail to flow between the first metal conductor and the second metal conductor . It is believed that when the second portion is bent then a depletion region forms at the base of the second portion which is an area of high strain in the nanowire . It is understood that deflection D shown in is illustrative only and is not necessarily drawn to scale. It is also understood that the actual deflection necessary to cause conduction through the nanowire could differ from the deflection shown. 

In one embodiment as shown in a gated electrical device may be made by placing a fine piezoelectric semiconducting nanowire e.g. a ZnO nanowire on a glass substrate as shown in . As shown in a silver paste is applied to the bottom end of the nanowire and the substrate to form a first electrode . A layer of an organic polymer such as polydimethylsiloxane PDMS is applied to cover a portion of the first electrode and a first portion of the nanowire as shown in . Gold is then deposited using for example a vapor deposition process onto a top portion of the substrate and around the exposed second portion of the nanowire so as to form a second electrode and a shell around part of the nanowire as shown in .

In one experimental embodiment a freestanding piezoelectric FET FS PE FET based on the piezotronic effect was fabricated. This device took advantage of the distribution of a piezoelectric potential in a ZnO wire when it is subjected to mechanical straining. For a vertical free standing ZnO wire once it is bent by an external force that is uniformly applied perpendicular to the wire along its length a piezoelectric potential drop is created across the wire. On the basis of a static model calculation with considering the screening effect of free charge carriers for a vertical ZnO wire on an identical ZnO substrate with a donor concentration p 1 10 m3 diameter d 25 nm and length l 600 nm when a total external force of f 800 nN was uniformly applied normal to the wire at its side surface the piezoelectric potential distribution across the bent wire oriented with its c axis pointing upward at room temperature RT was calculated. An outstanding feature noticed was that there is a reverse potential distribution at the junction region between the wire and the substrate with the compressive strained region positive and the tensile strained region negative. The significant large magnitude of this transverse potential forces the n type charge carriers electrons to accumulate at the compressive region to partially screen the local positive piezoelectric potential resulting in highly concentrated electron carriers at the region near the root. At the same time when the conduction band is pushed down by the piezoelectric polarization on the compression side the electrons will be strongly degenerate with a very high density. Therefore the increase of free electron density is much larger than the decrease on the tensile side. Consequently the total number of free charge carriers near the wire root would increase. The overall effect is thus an increase in the conductance. The existence of this local necking region with super high carrier density is believed to be important to the operability of this experimental device.

To utilize the piezoelectric potential created at the root region a FSPE FET has been built a micrograph of which is shown in in which a ZnO fine nanowire is partially embedded in a substrate and partially standing out. After coating the top part with metal and bottom part near the root with a protective insulating PDMS layer a bias from the bottom of the wire and the metal contact was applied using two probes. The insulative layer at the root region can effectively minimize the equal potential effect introduced by the metal layer coated at the top part and thus protects the bottom reverse depletion region. Thus a FS PE FET is configured in which the channel formed by the piezo potential at the wire substrate junction forces the electrons to flow through the region where there are accumulated charge carriers e.g. the positive piezoelectric potential region . Since the magnitude of the piezo potential increases almost linearly with the applied force or degree of wire bending the transported current is a measure of the force. This is the principle of the piezoelectric potential gated transistor which is a sensor for measuring the transversely applied force on the wire.

The FS PE FET was fabricated by using thin film deposition techniques and manipulation under an optical microscope. As shown in a scanning electron microscope SEM image taken from a device after side cutting using a focused ion beam FIB microscope shows the inner structure of the device. The Au PDMS ZnO layered structure is clear from the image. The PDMS layer ensures that the functioning parts of the ZnO wire and the Ag source electrode are not shorted by Au deposition. For the electrical measurement of this sensor device two tungsten tips were contacted respectively with the Ag source electrode and Au drain electrode for connecting the device to the measurement system. After a bias voltage V Vs Vd is applied between the source and drain electrodes the free charge carriers will flow through the rooted region of the ZnO PFW where a high profile of local accumulated free charge carriers exist. The resulting I V curve showed that there is a Schottky barrier between the source electrode and ZnO PFW. When the PFW is transversely bent by an external force a piezoelectric potential is created across the root junction region adjacent to the substrate which may play a similar role as the gate voltage applied between the gate and the base electrode in a MOS FET device. So this is a type of piezoelectric potential gated FET.

The reverse piezoelectric potential distribution across the junction region is an important aspect of this embodiment. In one experiment the ZnO cantilever was transversely pushed and released step by step for a total of four times using an aluminum oxide coated insulator tip which was mounted on a high resolution positioner. This is demonstrated in the current vs. time curve shown in . With the increase of the degree of bending the increase in conductance was noticed. After retracting the tip and setting the PFW to free the current returned to its original level. This experiment shows that the piezoelectric potential created at the root of the PFW is effective for tuning the transported electrical current and it can be used as a force sensor. This is also demonstrated by the current change rate vs. wire deflection curve shown in . In this experiment the PFW was bent step by step and then released step by step under a constant bias voltage V of 0.5 V.

The sensor device can also be activated by a gas flow. When an argon gas flow pulse was transversely applied to a ZnO cantilever with a 5 second cycle the cantilever was impacted and bent with a corresponding periodic current peak measured under a fixed bias voltage of 0.5 V. The highest current peak detected here was 180 nA in comparison with the baseline of 120 nA the corresponding variation rate is 50 . One peak was extracted for showing detailed profile. It has a rise time of about 20 ms which indicates the response speed of the device is faster than 20 ms with considering the electronic response of the measurement system. Periodic continuous gas blowing was also applied to the ZnO cantilever with a 5 second cycle.

An important functional part of this device is believed to be the junction region at the root of the ZnO PFW which is buried inside the PDMS layer. The working principle of the device is suggested as follows. Once subjected to mechanical impact the bent ZnO PFW cantilever creates a piezoelectric potential distribution across its width in this junction region and simultaneously produces local depletion and reverse depletion layers which triggers and controls the device. The size of the area and the local donor concentration of the reverse depletion layer are both dominated by the external force pressure vibration induced piezoelectric potential. The sensor device has a high piezoelectric potential control sensitivity in the range of micro Newtons in micrometer scale due to the freestanding cantilever structure and fairly stable linear relationship between the mechanical stimulation and its electrical response. At the same time it has a response time of less than 20 ms. This device may have potential applications as hearing aids AFM cantilevers force pressure sensors security systems and others.

In this experimental embodiment the long ZnO wires were grown using a vapor solid process. ZnO powder was used as the source material and loaded in an alumina boat located at the center of an alumina tube 75 cm which was placed in a single zone horizontal tube furnace. Argon gas was used as carrier gas at a flow rate of 50 standard cubic centimeters per minute sccm throughout the experiment. An alumina substrate with length of 10 cm was loaded 20 cm downstream from the source material. The furnace was heated to 1475 C. and was held at that temperature for 4.5 hours under a pressure of about 250 mbar. Then the furnace was turned off and the tube was cooled down to room temperature under an argon flow.

The FS PE FET was fabricated by the following procedures. First single crystal long ZnO piezoelectric fine wires PFWs were used in the experiment which were about 400 m in length about 4 m in diameter and were synthesized by thermal evaporation. The large size PFWs were chosen for easy manipulation under an optical microscope. The sample principle applies to smaller nanowires. Second a glass slice with a length of about 2 cm a width of about 1 cm and a thickness of about 1.5 mm was prepared. The slice was washed with deionized water and ethanol. After drying with flowing nitrogen gas and baking in a furnace at 80 C. for 15 minutes the glass slice was ready to be used as an insulating substrate. Third the ZnO PFW was placed on the glass substrate with part of the wire standing out of the edge and forming a cantilever structure. Silver paste was applied to affix the end of ZnO wire on the substrate and form the source electrode. Fourth a thin layer of polydimethylsiloxane PDMS was used to package part of the Ag electrode and the on substrate part of the wire. The thickness of this PDMS layer is larger than the diameter of the wire and the thickness of the silver electrode to make sure the wire and the electrode were insulated inside the PDMS. By this step the source electrode can avoid short circuiting with the Au drain electrode that is to be deposited in the next step and the preservation of the piezoelectric potential generated at the junction region by minimizing the equipotential effect introduced by Au deposition. After being baked at 80 C. for 30 minutes the PDMS layer was fully polymerized and functioned well as an insulating layer. Finally the device was shadowed by a mask so that an Au film was deposited only at the top free standing segment by an E beam evaporator. As the triggering part of the sensor device the cantilever was a core shell Au ZnO structure with the Au shell working as drain electrode of the device.

The above described embodiments while including the preferred embodiment and the best mode of the invention known to the inventor at the time of filing are given as illustrative examples only. It will be readily appreciated that many deviations may be made from the specific embodiments disclosed in this specification without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the scope of the invention is to be determined by the claims below rather than being limited to the specifically described embodiments above.

