---

title: Apparatus and methods for determining network access performance of a wireless device
abstract: Apparatus, methods, processors and computer readable media for determining the wireless network access performance or capability of a wireless device. Embodiments include a wireless device having a computer platform with a processing engine operable to generate a plurality of network access performance data during processing activities on the wireless device. The wireless device further includes a network access performance module operable to collect selected ones of the plurality of network access data associated with a predetermined data processing capability of the wireless device, and based on a predetermined collection configuration. The embodiments may also include an apparatus operable to generate the predetermined collection configuration, and operable to receive the collected network access data and to generate a performance report characterizing the network access performance or capability of the wireless device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08494452&OS=08494452&RS=08494452
owner: QUALCOMM Incorporated
number: 08494452
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100803
---
The present Application for Patent claims priority to Provisional Application No. 60 666 415 entitled Methods And Apparatus For Monitoring Network Access Performance For A Wireless Device filed Mar. 29 2005 assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The present Application for Patent is a Divisional of patent application Ser. No. 11 251 376 entitled Apparatus And Methods For Determining Network Access Performance Of A Wireless Device filed Oct. 14 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 873 321 and assigned to the assignee hereof and hereby expressly incorporated by reference herein.

The described embodiments generally relate to wireless communications devices and computer networks. More particularly the described embodiments relate to apparatus and methods for determining network access performance of a wireless device based on the analysis of network access related information collected from the wireless device.

Wireless networking connects one or more wireless devices to a communications network and to other computer devices without a direct electrical connection such as a copper wire or optical cable. Wireless devices communicate data across a wireless or partially wireless computer network by opening a data or communication channel on the network such that the device can send and receive data. The wireless devices often have wireless device resources such as programs and hardware components which individually and cooperatively operate to use and generate data in accordance to their design and specific protocol or configuration to transmit and receive data on the network. When a wireless device experiences a problem in accessing the wireless network for its designed operation there is presently a lack of a good solution to measure and report the activities occurring on the device relating to the attempted access to the wireless network. Thus a determination of problems encountered during network access attempts and a determination of actual network access performance is difficult to obtain or must be recreated during with tests. For example recreating an environment and the circumstances surrounding how a wireless device is performing in accessing the network is typically time consuming as it requires the provisioning of resources to a specified geographical area of the network where access problems have been reported. Typically such field testing is only performed upon initially setting up a particular type of wireless device or after access problems have reached the attention of the provider of the wireless network i.e. the network carrier. Additionally such field testing can be very time consuming and is not guaranteed to duplicate the network access environment that may have initially caused network access problems in a given device. Further such field testing results in the dedication of numerous wireless devices network testing resources equipment and personnel to external testing and measurement of network access performance. Thus once a wireless device is in operation i.e. in use by the commercial private owner the actual network access performance data such as number of access attempts successful and unsuccessful etc. is typically unknown to the network carrier with regard that specific device or networked area.

Another complicating factor in understanding and tracking the network access performance of a wireless device is interference from external testing and measurement equipment and or from other wireless devices. For example in a wireless device such as a cellular phone various analyzers are serially connected to the phone and input and or measure various access related parameters. Further such measurements typically involve driving around a large number of cellular phones through a predetermined area to determine their access performance data in that area under varying environmental conditions. In such a test set up the various external devices and the presence of a number of other wireless devices in close proximity change the radio frequency environment and make it difficult if not impossible to create an environment experienced by a wireless device in actual operation. Further these field tests result in collecting access performance data in a testing mode which as noted above may be a different than is actually experienced during actual operation of a wireless device.

Accordingly it would be advantageous to provide an apparatus and method that allows for efficient comprehensive collection and reporting of wireless device network accessing performance.

The described embodiments comprise apparatus methods and programs for network access performance measurement collection and reporting on a wireless device.

In one embodiment for example an apparatus for determining a network access performance of a wireless device comprises a network access performance module having a collection module operable to generate and transmit an access data collection configuration to a wireless device. The access data collection configuration comprises a predetermined network access related parameter that defines at least one type of the network access data to retrieve from a computer platform of the wireless device. Further a predetermined access characteristic of the wireless device is definable based on the defined type of network access data. Additionally the apparatus includes a data repository operable to receive and store the access data collected from the computer platform of the wireless device.

In another embodiment an apparatus for determining network access performance of a wireless device comprises a generator means for generating and transmitting an access data collection configuration across a wireless network to a wireless device. The access data collection configuration comprises a predetermined network access related test and a predetermined network access related parameter. The predetermined network access related test is executable by a computer platform of the wireless device to generate network access data. The predetermined network access related parameter defines a type of the network access data to retrieve from the computer platform of the wireless device. Further the apparatus includes a storing means for receiving and storing the network access data collected from the computer platform of the wireless device. Additionally the apparatus includes an analysis means for analyzing the collected network access data and generating a performance report having at least one access characteristic of the wireless device based on the collected network access data.

In yet another embodiment a wireless device comprises a computer platform having a processing engine operable to generate a plurality of network access data associated with accessing a wireless network during processing activities on the wireless device. Additionally the wireless device includes a network access performance module operable to collect at least a selected one of the plurality of network access data based on a predetermined network access collection configuration.

In a further embodiment a wireless device comprises a processing means for generating a plurality of network access data during data processing activities on the wireless device. Additionally the wireless device includes a means for collecting selected ones of the plurality of network access data associated with a predetermined data processing capability of the wireless device. The selected ones of the plurality of network access data are based on a network access collection configuration received from across a wireless network. Additionally the wireless device includes a means for selectively transmitting the collected selected ones of the plurality of network access data across the wireless network based on the network access collection configuration.

In still another embodiment a method of determining a network access performance of a wireless device comprises generating an access data collection configuration comprising a predetermined network access related parameter. The predetermined network access related parameter defines at least one of a plurality of network access data to retrieve from a computer platform of the wireless device where a predetermined network access characteristic of the wireless device is definable based on the defined network access data. Further the method includes receiving collected network access data based on the predetermined access data collection configuration. And the method includes analyzing the collected network access data to determine the predetermined network access characteristic of the wireless device.

In further embodiment a computer program is resident in a computer readable medium that when executed directs a computer device to perform the action of generating an access data collection configuration comprising a predetermined network access related parameter selected from a plurality of network access related parameters. The predetermined network access related parameter defines at least one of a plurality of network access data to retrieve from a computer platform of the wireless device where a predetermined network access characteristic of the wireless device is definable based on the defined network access data. Further the program directs the computer device to perform the action of receiving collected network access data based on the predetermined access data collection configuration and analyzing the collected network access data to determine the predetermined network access characteristic of the wireless device. Similarly in another embodiment at least one processor is configured to perform the above stated actions.

In another embodiment a method of determining a network access performance of a wireless device comprises receiving an access data collection configuration identifying at least one of a plurality of network access data to collect from a processing engine of the wireless device. The identified network access data are associated with a predetermined access characteristic of the wireless device. Further the method includes collecting the identified network access data based on the received access data collection configuration and selectively transmitting the collected network access data across the wireless network.

In yet another embodiment a computer program is resident in a computer readable medium that when executed directs a wireless device to perform the action of receiving an access data collection configuration identifying at least one of a plurality of network access data to collect from a processing engine of the wireless device where the identified network access data are associated with a predetermined access characteristic of the wireless device. Further the program directs the wireless device to perform the actions of collecting the identified network access data based on the received access data collection configuration and selectively transmitting the collected network access data across the wireless network. Similarly in another embodiment at least one processor is configured to perform the above stated actions.

Additional aspects and advantages of the disclosed embodiments are set forth in part in the description which follows and in part are obvious from the description or may be learned by practice of the disclosed embodiments. The aspects and advantages of the disclosed embodiments may also be realized and attained by the means of the instrumentalities and combinations particularly pointed out in the appended claims.

The described embodiments relate to the monitoring collection and analysis of access performance information relating to attempts of a wireless device to access a wireless network. For example such information may relate to attempts to make a voice call attempts to access a network data service such as the Internet attempts to send a text message and attempts to establish a video conference. The described embodiments provide systems methods processors and computer readable media which enable the collection of predetermined data that relate to predetermined access performance characteristics. Further the described embodiments include the analysis of this data and optionally the changing of wireless device settings based on this analysis to improve the access performance characteristic of interest.

Referring to one embodiment of a system for collecting network access performance related data and analyzing the network access capabilities of any one of a plurality of wireless devices in communication with a wireless network includes a resident network access performance module on each device. Each resident network access performance module is operable according to a collection configuration defined by a remotely located collection module to collect and transmit selected ones of a plurality of types of network access data across wireless network to a user manager server . For example collection module dictates what types of network access data to collect and when to gather the data along with when to upload the actual collected network access data . Additionally collection configuration may also define which types of associated data to collect and transmit where associated data could be either device related or network related information that provides state information or statistics relating to the access environment or scenario. As such the respective wireless device may also collect and upload associated data based on configuration along with network access data . In one embodiment user manager receives the transmitted network access data and associated data in a data log which is accessible by an analysis engine . Analysis engine examines the collected network access data and associated data and generates a performance report . Performance report characterizes at least one actual network access characteristic associated with the respective device based on data log . For example the analysis performed by analysis engine may compare select portions of network access data with select portions of a predetermined access performance standard to determine whether or not the network access data falls within the standard. Further after performing an initial analysis on an initial set of network access data analysis engine may initiate further communications such as through collection module with one or more wireless devices to retrieve additional network access data and associated data in order to provide further analysis and reporting. Analysis engine may repeat such a feedback loop until a predetermined solution is achieved i.e. until a set number of network access attempts are run and the results confirmed. Optionally user manager may include an optimization module that analyzes data log and or each respective network access performance report for example by applying an optimization algorithm and generates new operational configuration settings for a respective wireless device or for a network component to improve the network accessing capability of interest. User manager may then transfer the updated device configuration settings to the respective wireless device and or network component in order to improve the network access performance capabilities associated with system . Thus the present apparatus and methods provide for the collection analysis and reporting of network access performance data associated with the network accessing capabilities of a wireless device and allow for troubleshooting and optimization of network access related configurations in order to improve the network access performance and capabilities of the respective wireless device.

Network access data can include any type of data related to a network accessing activity on a wireless device . For example network access data includes but is not limited to a network access related event a protocol related access message an access channel message a Radio Resource Control message a non access station NAS message a number of access probe sequences an acknowledgement timeout from an access channel message a randomization for access channel probe time access channel message capsule information a power level change for an access probe attempt and a base station parameter. Additionally network access data includes network access related parameters including but not limited to call initiation information call termination information and protocol related access information messages. For example call initiation information includes but is not limited to mobile origination termination information service negotiation information network state information e.g. dormant disconnected etc. For example call termination information includes but is not limited to termination cause information IP address information e.g. requested granted etc. Further network access data may include other protocol related parameters e.g. PDP in UMTS mobile IP information session initiation protocol information e.g. registration related information etc. Additional examples of access data include but are not limited to air interface data handoff data power control data authentication data service redirection data roaming information message driven indicators application interface data field test data and other non enumerated network access data etc.

Further for example the types of network access data which are measured involve the operational performance of various functions parameters characteristics messaging protocols etc. such as terminations originations and maintenance in strong signal weak signal and mixed signal environments radio frequency RF performance data such as receive Rx data including sensitivity isolated magnetic dipole IMD and self jamming transmit Tx data such as waveform quality Rho power control and maximum power and broadband BB and digital signal processing DSP data such as signal acquisition soft handoff SHO searcher and finger assignment interoperability data such as channel data including access channel ACH dedicated paging channel DPCH forward traffic channel FTCH and reverse traffic channel RTCH messaging data dealing with layer and layer and handoff parameters including SHO interband hard handoff HHO and interfrequency HHO. Further for example the measured data for the wireless device such as system acquisition high speed packet data HSPD location determination call types POTS 3 way call waiting voice mail authentication etc. provisioning over the air service provisioning OTASP over the air parameter administration OTAPA IP over the air IOTA etc. and other data dealing with features such as short message service SMS multimedia service MMS browser Java software and BREW or other application programming interface software.

Associated data comprises wireless device information relevant to or potentially having influence on network access performance and or network access data . For example associated data may identify and define a state of a device component or other device activity occurring during an attempt to access the network. Associated data may include but is not limited to position location information time information diagnostic information a state of a device component during a network access attempt by the wireless device a statistic or state associated with non access related processing occurring on the respective wireless device during a network access attempt information relating to some other processing intensive activity such as playing a game a video or music or taking a picture occurring on the device during an access attempt and other network or device information.

Referring back to user manager may communicate with wireless devices through a direct wired connection or through a wireless connection such as through a network interface in communication with wireless network . The communications between user manager and wireless devices may include downloads of all or selected portions such as maximum number of access probe sequences of a remote network access performance module that from and or operate within resident access module . Other such communications include uploads from each wireless device back to the user manager such as uploads of network access data or associated data .

User manager may be at least one of any type of server personal computer mini mainframe and the like. Further there can be separate servers or computer devices associated with user manager that work in concert to provide data in usable formats to parties and or a separate layer of control in the data flow between the wireless devices and user manager . User manager or plurality of servers can send software agents or applications such as the resident access module to wireless devices across wireless network such that the wireless devices return data from their resident applications and subsystems. For example wireless devices may transmit data such as network access data and associated data to user manager or some other computer device on the network in the form of a data log . Data log includes the access data as configured by collection module and also may include other associated data . User manager utilizes data log for analyzing and reporting the network access performance of the respective device. User manager and its corresponding components can give a ready view of network access performance data collected from the wireless devices in any form such as tables maps graphics views plain text interactive programs or web pages or any other display or presentation of the data. For example user manager may present access data and or network access performance report on a monitor or display device and or may transmit such as via electronic mail this information to another computer device for further analysis or review. Also user manager may change an operational parameter and or configuration of a respective wireless device and or of a network component based on the actual network access data and associated data or based on performance report .

Further user manager or network access performance module may include a data repository such as any type of local or remote memory and or storage device for storing data logs .

Analysis engine may include hardware software firmware and combinations thereof for analyzing and processing network access data . Additionally in one embodiment analysis engine may comprise analysis logic including algorithms decision making routines statistical programs executable instructions etc. for analyzing and interpreting access data and generating access performance report and or access performance characteristic . Although illustrated as being associated with user manager analysis engine may be located anywhere in communication with wireless network such as on user manager another server connected to the network or on a respective wireless device .

As noted above analysis engine outputs access performance report which in one embodiment may be details of network access data and associated data that are reviewed manually such as by a technician or field engineer for evaluation of data processing operation related issues associated with a particular wireless device. In this case the technician or field engineer instead of or in cooperation with optimization module may generate new network access operational configuration settings for the respective wireless device based on the collected network access performance data. Generally report may be useful in trouble shooting device operational network access related issues and identifying problem areas and or devices such as through analysis of data log and the collected access data and associated data . As such performance report includes any form of output that represents analysis of access data as well as any other associated data from data log of one or more respective wireless devices.

Network access performance module may include software hardware firmware and generally any executable instructions operable by analysis engine . In one embodiment for example network access performance module comprises access performance management logic including executable instructions and data for managing the generation and transmission of collection configuration to wireless device and the receipt storage and analysis of data log . Further network access performance module and or management logic may be operable to download the resident version of network access performance module to each wireless device . Alternatively the resident version of access performance module may be loaded onto the respective wireless device during the initial assembly process or via serial connections during a configuration process. Further access performance module is executable by user manager to manage the collection of data logs from wireless devices . Network access performance module may pull the logs based on commands from a user or the logs may be pushed from the respective devices at predetermined times or upon reaching predetermined memory data storage levels.

Additionally as mentioned above optimization module may get network access data directly from either performance report or data log and apply predetermined algorithms or programs to optimize the settings of one or more device and or network related configurations to improve the network access performance such as power increases with each access probe attempt maximum number of access probe attempts etc. Optimization module may include any hardware software firmware and or other set of executable instructions operable to analyze performance data and determine revised network specific and or wireless device specific configuration changes to improve device performance in and of itself or performance on the network. Additionally optimization module may be operable to initiate further communications with a respective wireless device and or a network component such as a base station to retrieve additional communications related data associated with the data log in order to perform further analysis and optimization. The optimizations performed by optimization module may also be performed all or in part by a technician manually reviewing the data log or network access performance report and any associated performance related data.

Wireless network includes any communications network operable at least in part for enabling wireless communications between a respective wireless device and any other device connected to wireless network . Further wireless network may include all network components and all connected devices that form the network. For example wireless network may include at least one or any combination of a cellular telephone network a terrestrial telephone network a satellite telephone network an infrared network such as an Infrared Data Association IrDA based network a short range wireless network a Bluetooth technology network a ZigBee protocol network an ultra wide band UWB protocol network a home radio frequency HomeRF network a shared wireless access protocol SWAP network a wideband network such as a wireless Ethernet compatibility alliance WECA network a wireless fidelity alliance Wi Fi Alliance network and a 802.11 network a public switched telephone network a public heterogeneous communications network such as the Internet a private communications network and land mobile radio network. Suitable examples of telephone networks include at least one or any combination of analog and digital networks technologies such as code division multiple access wideband code division multiple access universal mobile telecommunications system advanced mobile phone service time division multiple access frequency division multiple access global system for mobile communication analog and digital satellite systems and any other technologies protocols that may be used in at least one of a wireless communications network and a data communications network.

Network interface may be any mechanism that allows user manager to communicate across wireless network . For example network interface may include a local area network that connects user manager through an Internet Service Provider to the Internet which in turn may be connected to a respective wireless device through a carrier network and a base station.

Further system may include a user or operator in communication with user manager and or wireless devices . For example operator may be a technician customer service representative etc. of a communications carrier responsible for providing service to wireless devices and or an equipment maker who manufactured the respective wireless device and or a component within the respective wireless device. Such a user or operator may be interested in network access related information in order to improve the quality of service of the wireless network and or the respective wireless device. In any case user or operator may access user manager via a computer device having a direct or remote wired or wireless connection. As such user or operator may be able to access and manipulate network access performance module as described herein. Further user or operator may provide inputs to user manager through an input mechanism such as a keyboard mouse etc. and may receive outputs from user manager such as report and or data log through output mechanism such as a display an audio speaker a haptic feedback mechanism etc.

Wireless devices can include any type of computerized wireless devices such as cellular telephone personal digital assistant two way text pager portable computer and even a separate computer platform that has a wireless communication portal and which also may have a wired connection to a network or the Internet. The wireless device can be a remote slave or other device that does not have an end user thereof but simply communicates data across the wireless network such as remote sensors diagnostic tools data relays and the like. The apparatus and method of access measurement collecting and reporting on the wireless device can accordingly be performed on any form of wireless device or computer module including a wired or wireless communication portal including without limitation wireless modems PCMCIA cards access terminals personal computers telephones or any combination or sub combination thereof.

In a cellular telephone embodiment for example referring to a cellular telephone system may include wireless network connected to a wired network via a carrier network . The use of cellular telecommunication pathways has been increasing because wireless devices such as the plurality of cellular telephones illustrated in are being manufactured with increased computing capabilities and are becoming tantamount to personal computers and hand held personal digital assistants PDAs communicating packets including voice and data over wireless network . These smart cellular telephones have installed application programming interfaces APIs onto their local computer platform that allow software developers to create software applications that operate on the cellular telephone and control certain functionality on the device. is a representative diagram that more fully illustrates the components of a cellular wireless network and interrelation of the elements of one embodiment of the present system. Cellular wireless network is merely exemplary and can include any system whereby remote modules such as wireless devices communicate over the air between and among each other and or between and among components of a wireless network including without limitation wireless network carriers and or servers.

In system user manager can be in communication over a LAN network with a separate data repository for storing data logs gathered from the remote wireless devices . Further a data management server may be in communication with user manager to provide post processing capabilities data flow control etc. User manager data repository and data management server may be present on the cellular network with any other network components that are needed to provide cellular telecommunication services. User manager and or data management server communicate with carrier network through a data link such as the Internet a secure LAN WAN or other network. Carrier network controls messages generally being data packets sent to a mobile switching center MSC . Further carrier network communicates with MSC by a network such as the Internet and or POTS plain old telephone service . Typically in network a network or Internet portion transfers data and the POTS portion transfers voice information. MSC may be connected to multiple base stations BTS by another network such as a data network and or Internet portion for data transfer and a POTS portion for voice information. BTS ultimately broadcasts messages wirelessly to the wireless devices such as cellular telephones by short messaging service SMS or other over the air methods.

Referring to each wireless device such as cellular telephone in this case has computer platform that can transmit data across wireless network and that can receive and execute software applications and display data transmitted from user manager or another computer device connected to wireless network . Computer platform also includes an application specific integrated circuit ASIC or other chipset processor logic circuit or other data processing device. ASIC or other processor may execute an application programming interface API layer that interfaces with any resident programs such as access performance module in a memory of the wireless device. API is a runtime environment executing on the respective wireless device. One such runtime environment is Binary Runtime Environment for Wireless BREW software developed by Qualcomm Inc. of San Diego Calif. Other runtime environments may be utilized that for example operate to control the execution of applications on wireless computing devices. Memory may include read only and or random access memory RAM and ROM EPROM EEPROM flash cards or any memory common to computer platforms. Computer platform also includes a data storage that can hold the software applications files or data not actively used in memory such as the software applications or data downloaded from user manager . Storage may include one or more flash memory cells and any secondary or tertiary storage device such as magnetic media EPROM EEPROM optical media tape or soft or hard disk. Additionally storage can ultimately hold a resident copy of access performance module or agent as is further described herein.

Referring specifically to in one embodiment each wireless device such as cellular telephone further includes a communications module that enables communications among the various components of each wireless device and between each wireless device and wireless network . Communications module may be implemented in any combination of hardware software firmware etc.

Processing engine includes various processing subsystems embodied in hardware firmware software and combinations thereof that enable the functionality of the respective wireless device and the operability of the respective device on wireless network such as for connecting with the network exchanging data communications with other devices etc. For example processing engine may include one or a combination of processing subsystems such as sound non volatile memory file system transmit receive searcher physical layer link layer call processing layer main control remote procedure music audio handset power management diagnostic digital signal processor vocoder messaging call manager Bluetooth Bluetooth LPOS position determination position engine user interface sleep data services security authentication USIM SIM voice services graphics USB video services camera camcorder interface and associated display drivers multimedia such as MPEG GPRS etc. along with other functionality applications. It should be noted that preceding list is only one example and that the subsystems can include any service or functionality operable on a wireless device. Further in one embodiment API includes a class of software extensions that allow network access performance module to access processing engine . These software extensions can communicate with processing subsystems on the wireless device which allows both data reads and commands. For example this software extension can send commands including register for log messages on behalf of the applications that invoke it. The module can then forward the responses of the subsystems to network access performance module or ultimately across wireless network to user manager . Each resident application on wireless device can create an instance of this new software extension to communicate with the subsystems independently.

Further for example in one embodiment such as cellular telephone processing subsystems may include a receive Rx component for receiving communications sent to the processor of the wireless device system determination SD component for handling the initiation authentication handoffs data exchanges messaging protocols internal processing and decision making etc. associated with processing a message and a transmit Tx component for sending communications from the processor of the wireless device such as to handset components wireless network wireless network components and other devices connected to the wireless network. In this embodiment SD component may handle tasks relating to selecting an appropriate system from a plurality of systems with which to communicate. In addition processing subsystems may include at least one of a position location or Global Positioning System GPS component for determining the geographical location of the device a power management component Power for controlling the changes to the device power levels on each network access attempt a diagnostic component for evaluating a subsystem and troubleshooting a call manager CM component for characterizing and logging call types and other non enumerated subsystems X1 e.g. call processing fax multimedia messaging texting components.

Resident network access performance module may be initiated at any time and network access data and associated data may be stored on the respective wireless device and obtained at any time via a wired or wireless connection to the respective wireless device. Network access performance module may include any hardware software firmware and or other set of executable instructions operable to manage the collection on the wireless device and transmission across the wireless network of any information relating to the network access capabilities of the respective wireless device. Network access performance module collects network access data along with associated data based on configuration . Further network access performance module may store this information in data log either in a resident memory or another data repository connectable to the respective wireless device. Additionally access performance module may also store the corresponding configuration within log so that an association may be made with the collected data. In one embodiment for example network access performance module comprises access data management logic which includes executable instructions and data to manage the receipt and execution of collection configuration the storage of the gathered access performance data and or associated data and the access to and or forwarding of data log . Thus in one embodiment access performance module provides each wireless device with a resident or self contained capability for retrieving and recording actual network access data and or associated data corresponding with network accessing activities on the wireless device as well as allowing for the transmission and remote analysis of such network access performance data.

Network access performance module may cause the respective wireless device to selectively transmit data log based on configuration to another computer device such as user manager on the wireless network. In one embodiment network access performance module transmits data log from that wireless device to user manager across the wireless network when requested. In other embodiments network access performance module transmits data log when the available memory hits a predetermined amount on a time based periodic schedule whenever a communication channel is established when triggered by a predetermined event such as an access failure etc. Further data log may be transmitted over an open communication connection from the wireless device to the wireless network and thus piggybacked across an open connection such as a voice or data call at the cellular telephone . In a cellular network configuration network data log can be transmitted to user manager through short message service. In another embodiment remote user manager reads data log from the respective device through the resident network access module and in some instances writes commands to computer platform and alters the operation of the wireless device . Accordingly the accessibility to network access module allows the user manager to remotely control parameters for data collection and to analyze and report specific device network access information.

As noted above access data collection configuration includes parameters that define conditions and types of information to collect as network access data and associated data including when to collect the access data and when to transmit the collected access data across wireless network to user manager and or another computer device. As mentioned above in one embodiment network access data collection configuration is generated by network access performance module and in particular collection module on user manager . It should be noted however that network access data collection configuration may be generated by any computer device connected to wireless network or may be locally transmitted to the respective wireless device such as by a manual input from a user and or through transmission from a locally connected device.

For example in one embodiment collection configuration includes a selected access parameter chosen from a plurality of access parameters . Selected access parameter defines which data to collect as access performance data for example based on a desired network access performance characteristic to be measured. Further collection configuration may include a selected associated data parameter chosen from a plurality of associated data parameters . Selected associated data parameter defines which data to collect as associated data which may vary for example depending on the selected access parameter as different states or functions occurring on the respective wireless device may be more or less relevant to a given access parameter. Additionally collection configuration may include a selected tracking parameter chosen from a plurality of tracking parameters . Selected tracking parameter defines when to collect selected access data and selected associated data which may vary for example depending on the given wireless device the selected parameters and and or the given scenario. Further collection configuration may include a selected reporting parameter chosen from a plurality of reporting parameters . Selected reporting parameter defines when to transmit data log to user manager or some other device. Selected reporting parameter may vary in a manner similar to selected tracking parameter .

Additionally configuration may also include a selected test program and or selected test data to be processed by the respective wireless device to generate network access data and or associated data . In one embodiment selected test program is chosen from a plurality of test programs while selected test data is chosen from a plurality of test data . Test program and or test data may be executed by a simulator module to create or simulate a predetermined network access environment and or a predetermined wireless device state or condition. Simulator module may be any combination of hardware software firmware instructions and data operable to simulate conditions and or communications on the respective wireless device. The execution of test program and or test data thereby enables simulator module to generate a predetermined access scenario to be processed by the respective device in order to test or characterize the network access performance. As such test programs and or test data allow for repetition of a consistent network access environment across a plurality of test instances or across a plurality of wireless device.

Additionally each wireless device such a cellular phone may further include an input mechanism for receiving information to be processed by the device and an output mechanism for imparting information received or processed by the device. For example input mechanism may include a key or keypad an audio receiver a touch sensitive display a voice recognition program a mouse etc. Output mechanism may include for example a display an audio speaker a haptic mechanism etc.

In operation referring to one embodiment of a method for network access performance measurement on a wireless device includes loading at least a portion of a network access performance application onto a computer platform of the wireless device Block . For example the network access performance application may be embodied within the hardware and or firmware of the wireless device during the manufacture of the device. Alternatively the network access performance application may be pushed by a user manager to the wireless device or pulled from a user manager by the wireless device across a wireless network. In another alternative the loading of the network access performance application may be configurable in any manner for example being initiated by a predetermined event such as unacceptable network access characteristic.

Further this embodiment of the method includes receiving access data collection configuration from a remote computer platform such as a user manager or pre loaded prior to the wireless device being placed into service operation respective wireless device in accordance with a predetermined data collection configuration Block .

In an optional embodiment the method further includes loading a test program and or test data Block which may be included in the received data collection configuration and performing a test or simulation based on the test program and or test data Block .

This embodiment of the method also includes logging network access performance data on the wireless device or in a memory associated with the wireless device in accordance with the received access data collection configuration Block . For example access data and predetermined associated data that are generated by network access attempts and or communications processing engine of the wireless device during its operation may be stored in data log .

Additionally the method includes forwarding the collected network access performance information for analysis Block . For example the predetermined network access data may be obtained from the communications processing engine and stored in data log in memory of the wireless device for analysis on the computer platform of the device or for transmitting across the wireless network for analysis by another computer device such as user manager . Further in one embodiment the collected network access performance data is uploaded from the wireless device in accordance with the configuration application such as through a standard HTTP an FTP or some other data transfer protocol.

Additionally this embodiment of the method optionally may include the wireless device receiving new or modified operational configuration parameters which may be based on the access data and or the associated data Block . For example these new or modified operational configuration parameters may be generated by optimization module of user manager located across the wireless network from the wireless device. These new operational configuration parameters may allow the wireless device to improve its network accessing capability.

In operation referring to one embodiment of a method for network access performance measurement of a wireless device includes generating a network access collection configuration Block . For example network access information is collected in accordance with the collection configuration which determines what data is to be collected and when the same is to be collected along when it will be transmitted from the respective wireless device for example for analysis.

Further this embodiment of the method includes forwarding or transmitting the generated collection configuration to the respective wireless device Block . For example configuration may be sent from user manager across wireless network to a respective wireless device.

Further this embodiment of the method includes receiving network access performance information from the respective wireless device in accordance with the access data collection configuration Block . In one embodiment for example the collected network access performance information is uploaded from the wireless device in accordance with the configuration application such as through a standard HTTP an FTP or some other data transfer protocol.

Further this embodiment of the method includes analyzing the collected network access information Block and generating a performance report characterizing the network access performance of the respective wireless device based on the analyzed access information Block . For example the network access data may be analyzed by an analysis engine associated with a user manager located across the wireless network from the wireless device. Alternatively the analysis engine may reside on the wireless device. In one embodiment the analysis engine may compare selected portions of the access performance information with predetermined access performance standards to determine device network access performance. Additionally the analysis may be based on more than one set of access data. Further the network access performance may be based on an analysis of a plurality of device subsystem operations. Additionally generation of the access performance report or characterization includes presenting the results in a table a graph etc.

Additionally the method optionally may include optimizing a configuration of a wireless device and or a network component based on the performance report Block . For example this action includes analysis engine executing optimization module to run predetermined algorithms or programs to optimize the settings of one or more device and or network related configurations to improve network accessing capability. In another example of this step the method may include a technician or analyst reviewing the results and manually making the configuration adjustments. Additionally it should be noted that the method may be implemented in different locations within the system in different devices and by centralized or decentralized processing mechanisms.

Additionally it should be noted that the method may include granting access to the network access performance data and or performance report to other business or commercial systems. To ensure the security and or integrity of the collected network access performance data such access may be granted in a monitored fashion such as through a user manager. Further other computer devices including both storage and processing devices can be located across the wireless network from the wireless device and accordingly the architecture associated with the user manager is readily scalable.

Another example of access performance related message exchanges i.e. access successes and access failures which may be monitored via the described embodiments is described in U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 078 235 entitled APPARATUS AND METHODS FOR DETERMINING CONNECTION QUALITY OF A WIRELESS DEVICE ON A WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS NETWORK filed Mar. 11 2005 assigned to the present assignee and hereby incorporated by reference.

In another example of the above defined method an end user complains that he she is not able to obtain access to the network on their wireless device. A help desk associated with the wireless device and or the wireless network issues a command from the user manager to download the network access performance module to the wireless device. The help desk configures network access module to collect specific access data and other associated data and configures the upload parameters. The end user uses his her wireless device in a normal fashion such as by making normal voice calls and data calls. The network access module collects the predetermined access data and associated data and uploads this information to the user manager as specified in the upload parameters. The user manager processes analyzes the network access performance data and generates the performance report which details and characterizes the network access activities associated with the wireless device. In one embodiment for example the analysis by the user manager may conclude that an operational parameter for a given base station is incorrect and are the cause of an access failure. The user manager then notifies the help desk of the report and the help desk personnel can then make base station operational configuration changes based on the results of the report.

In another example of the above defined method a field engineer issues a command from the user manager to download the network access module to a set of wireless devices. The field engineer configures network access module to collect specific network access performance data and associated data as well as configuring the devices to run specific scripts tests. In one embodiment the set of wireless devices are then subjected to a drive test which due to the recording capabilities of the network access performance module can be implemented without external test and or measurement devices. It should be noted that the field engineer does not need to physically be inside the drive test vehicle to monitor the testing as the monitoring can occur from the user manager. In another embodiment the plurality of wireless devices are used independently such as in normal operation by their user. The network access module then performs the tests automatically based on the predetermined configuration and uploads the collected network access performance data to the user manager. The user manager processes analyzes the network access data and generates a performance report. The user manager notifies the field engineer of the performance report and the field engineer can then make device operational configuration changes based on the results of the report.

In view of the method being executable on computer platform of a wireless device the method may be implemented via a carrier wave and or the method may include a program resident in a computer readable medium. The carrier wave and or computer readable medium directs a wireless device having a device platform to perform the steps of the method. Such a program can be executed on any single computer platform or can be executed in a distributed way among several computer platforms. Furthermore the method can be implemented by a program that directs a computer device such as user manager to perform a network access performance determination through gathering and processing network access data from the wireless devices .

The computer readable medium can be the memory of the computer platform of the cellular telephone or other wireless device or can be in a local database such as local database of the device platform . Further the computer readable medium can be in a secondary storage media that is loadable onto a wireless device computer platform such as a magnetic disk or tape optical disk hard disk flash memory or other storage media as is known in the art.

Further the method may be implemented for example by operating portion s of the wireless network and or LAN such as device platform and user manager to execute a sequence of machine readable instructions. The instructions can reside in various types of signal bearing or data storage primary secondary or tertiary media. The media may comprise for example RAM not shown accessible by or residing within the components of the wireless network or LAN . Whether contained in RAM a diskette or other secondary storage media the instructions may be stored on a variety of machine readable data storage media such as DASD direct access storage device storage e.g. a conventional hard drive or a RAID redundant array of independent disks array magnetic tape electronic read only memory e.g. ROM EPROM or EEPROM flash memory cards an optical storage device e.g. CD ROM WORM write once read many DVD digital optical tape paper punch cards or other suitable data storage media including digital and analog transmission media.

In summary the apparatus can be implemented solely on any wireless device . The wireless device can have at least one network access module including an application or agent resident either permanent or temporarily on the computer platform thereof which causes the gathering of network access data and associated data from processing engine and which can effect selective transmission of the access performance data for that wireless device to another computer device such as user manager on the wireless network . If the wireless device is so embodied network access data and associated data may be transmitted over an open communication connection from the wireless device to the wireless network such as an open voice or data call. If the wireless device is a cellular telephone and the wireless network is a cellular telecommunication network such as shown in data log can be transmitted through short message service or other wireless communication methods. User manager then applies analysis engine to the collected access data and or associated data and generates performance report that details a network access characteristic of the respective wireless device. Based on this report or by implementation of optimization module operational settings of the respective wireless device and or of the wireless network may be modified to enhance network accessing capabilities.

While the foregoing disclosure shows illustrative embodiments it should be noted that various changes and modifications could be made herein without departing from the scope of the described embodiments as defined by the appended claims. Furthermore although elements of the described embodiments may be described or claimed in the singular the plural is contemplated unless limitation to the singular is explicitly stated.

