---

title: Method and apparatus for context-indexed network resources
abstract: Techniques to provide context-indexed network resources include determining a network resource that is associated with first data in response to receiving first data that describes a context feature. A context token is determined, which indicates a probability, in the first data, of a topic from a context vocabulary. The context vocabulary includes concepts describing temporal, spatial, environmental or activity circumstances of consumers. Second data is stored, which indicates the network resource in association with the context token. In some embodiments, determining a network resource associated with the first data includes sending a topic based on the feature context token to a network resource search engine; and, the network resource is determined based on data returned from the network resource search engine.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08341185&OS=08341185&RS=08341185
owner: Nokia Corporation
number: 08341185
owner_city: Espoo
owner_country: FI
publication_date: 20100402
---
Service providers and device manufacturers e.g. wireless cellular etc. are continually challenged to deliver value and convenience to consumers by for example providing compelling network services. One service of interest is to provide consumers with links to relevant network resources such as home pages of a restaurant or bank or bus depot. However relevance of network resources can change substantially based on the consumer s circumstances such as whether the consumer is working for pay or performing other duties or at leisure whether the current time is a weeknight or weekend whether the current season is summer or winter and whether the consumer is at home or away. Internet search engines require user input of one or more keywords to determine what network resources are relevant but do not automatically determine what is relevant based on the consumer s current circumstances.

Therefore there is a need for an approach for determining automatically what network resources are relevant based on the current circumstances of a consumer. To support such an automatic determination a repository of context indexed network resource links is provided.

According to one embodiment a method comprises facilitating access including granting access rights to an interface to allow access to a service via a network. The service is configured to determine a network resource that is associated with first data in response to receiving first data that describes a context feature. The service is further configured to determine a context token that indicates a probability in the first data of a topic from a context vocabulary. The context vocabulary includes concepts describing temporal spatial environmental or activity circumstances of consumers The service is further configured to cause at least in part actions that result in storing second data that indicates the network resource in association with the context token.

According to another embodiment a method includes determining local context data that indicates one or more of temporal spatial environmental or activity circumstances of a consumer of network services. The method further comprises causing at least in part actions that result in sending the local context data to a service via a network. The method further comprises determining whether data that indicates a network resource is received in response to sending the local context data. The method further comprises causing at least in part actions that result in presenting data that indicates the network resource to the consumer if data that indicates the network resource is received.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code. The at least one memory and the computer program code are configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to determine a network resource that is associated with first data in response to receiving first data that describes a context feature. The apparatus is also caused to determine a context token that indicates a probability in the first data of a topic from a context vocabulary. The context vocabulary includes concepts describing temporal spatial environmental or activity circumstances of consumers. The apparatus is further caused to perform at least in part actions that result in storing second data that indicates the network resource in association with the context token.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises at least one processor and at least one memory including computer program code. The at least one memory and the computer program code are configured to with the at least one processor cause at least in part the apparatus to determine local context data that indicates one or more of temporal spatial environmental or activity circumstances of a consumer who uses the apparatus to obtain network services. The apparatus is further caused to perform at least in part actions that result in sending the local context data to a service via a network. The apparatus is further caused at least in part to determine whether data that indicates a network resource is received in response to sending the local context data. The apparatus is further caused at least in part to perform actions that result in presenting data that indicates the network resource on a display of the apparatus if data that indicates the network resource is received.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to determine a network resource that is associated with the data in response to receiving first data that describes a context feature. The apparatus is also caused to determine a context token that indicates a probability in the first data of a topic from a context vocabulary. The context vocabulary includes concepts describing temporal spatial environmental or activity circumstances of consumers. The apparatus is further caused to perform at least in part actions that result in storing second data that indicates the network resource in association with the context token.

According to another embodiment a computer program product comprises one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to determine a network resource that is associated with the data in response to receiving first data that describes a context feature. The apparatus is also caused to determine a context token that indicates a probability in the first data of a topic from a context vocabulary. The context vocabulary includes concepts describing temporal spatial environmental or activity circumstances of consumers. The apparatus is further caused to perform at least in part actions that result in storing second data that indicates the network resource in association with the context token.

According to another embodiment a computer readable storage medium carries one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to determine local context data that indicates one or more of temporal spatial environmental or activity circumstances of a consumer who uses the apparatus to obtain network services. The apparatus is further caused to perform at least in part actions that result in sending the local context data to a service via a network. The apparatus is further caused at least in part to determine whether data that indicates a network resource is received in response to sending the local context data. The apparatus is further caused at least in part to perform actions that result in presenting data that indicates the network resource on a display of the apparatus if data that indicates the network resource is received.

According to another embodiment a computer program product comprises one or more sequences of one or more instructions which when executed by one or more processors cause at least in part an apparatus to to determine local context data that indicates one or more of temporal spatial environmental or activity circumstances of a consumer who uses the apparatus to obtain network services. The apparatus is further caused to perform at least in part actions that result in sending the local context data to a service via a network. The apparatus is further caused at least in part to determine whether data that indicates a network resource is received in response to sending the local context data. The apparatus is further caused at least in part to perform actions that result in presenting data that indicates the network resource on a display of the apparatus if data that indicates the network resource is received.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for determining a network resource that is associated with first data in response to receiving first data that describes a context feature. The apparatus also comprises means for determining a context token that indicates a probability in the first data of a topic from a context vocabulary. The context vocabulary includes concepts describing temporal spatial environmental or activity circumstances of consumers. The apparatus further comprises means for storing second data that indicates the network resource in association with the context token.

According to another embodiment an apparatus comprises means for determining local context data that indicates one or more of temporal spatial environmental or activity circumstances of a consumer who uses the apparatus to obtain network services. The apparatus further comprises means for sending the local context data to a service via a network. The apparatus further comprises means for determining whether data that indicates a network resource is received in response to sending the local context data. The apparatus further comprises means for presenting data that indicates the network resource on a display of the apparatus if data that indicates the network resource is received.

Still other aspects features and advantages of the invention are readily apparent from the following detailed description simply by illustrating a number of particular embodiments and implementations including the best mode contemplated for carrying out the invention. The invention is also capable of other and different embodiments and its several details can be modified in various obvious respects all without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention. Accordingly the drawings and description are to be regarded as illustrative in nature and not as restrictive.

Examples of a method apparatus and computer program are disclosed for providing context indexed network resources. In the following description for the purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments of the invention. It is apparent however to one skilled in the art that the embodiments of the invention may be practiced without these specific details or with an equivalent arrangement. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to avoid unnecessarily obscuring the embodiments of the invention.

As used herein the term context refers to temporal spatial environmental or activity circumstances of one or more consumers of network services or some combination. Example context for a particular consumer of network services includes doing on line bill payments at home on a weeknight while listening to classical music and exchanging texts with three friends. Other example context information includes environment data such as nearby devices temperature pressure humidity ambient sound ambient light velocity acceleration or some combination. A network resource is a web page web service file or database for which access is granted via a communications network. A network resource is indicated by a network address such as a uniform resource locator URL well known in the art. Some network resources are network services that perform one or more functions such as social networking or sending and receiving electronic mail as a result of a message received over a network from a consumer. Although various embodiments are described with respect to a consumer who is a user of a mobile telephone and network resources indicated by URLs it is contemplated that the approach described herein may be used with other devices such as desktop or laptop computers and other indicators of network resources such as a Internet Protocol IP address and Transmission Control Protocol TCP port number.

As used herein context is different from content. As state above context refers to circumstances surrounding a consumer. Content refers to what is provided by a network resource and includes for example digital sound songs digital images digital games digital maps point of interest information digital videos such as music videos news clips and theatrical videos advertisements electronic books presentations digital documents text files program files or objects any other digital media or any combination thereof.

In various embodiments a context vocabulary and topology is developed that identifies words and topics related to consumers circumstances context . Any method known in the art may be used to generate the context vocabulary and topology. For example several documents are collected that discuss and describe consumer context such as documents that describe the significance of whether the consumer is working for pay or performing other duties or at leisure whether the current time is a weeknight or weekend whether the current season is summer or winter whether the consumer is at home or away or whether the consumer is at a destination or en route whether the consumer is stationary or moving and at what speeds and directions and what applications are available on user equipment belonging to the consumer. These documents are mined to determine words related to consumer context collections of words related to context or relative usage of those words or some combination. In some embodiments the vocabulary topology includes topics imposed on or deduced from relative occurrences of words within the documents. For example in various embodiments probabilistic latent semantic indexing pLSI or Latent Dirichlet allocation LDA well known in the art is used to deduce topics from words in a set of documents. Such methods can be used to derive context words and context topics from a set of documents that are directed to the circumstances of consumers of network services. Because each topic is associated with a group of words in certain relative abundances there is a topology relating topics to words and subtopics to higher level topics. The context vocabulary topology is used in various embodiments described herein to index network resources by context. In addition a semantic vocabulary of general content is also used. The term semantic vocabulary to describe the general content vocabulary and the context vocabulary to describe the situational characteristic surrounding a user.

To address this problem a system of introduces the capability to provide and use context indexed URLs for network resources focused on consumers of a network service for providing context aware recommendations of network resources. As shown in the system comprises user equipment UE having connectivity to network services a through n collectively called network services an internet search engine and context aware recommendation service via a communication network . By way of example the communication network of system includes one or more networks such as a data network not shown a wireless network not shown a telephony network not shown or any combination thereof. It is contemplated that the data network may be any local area network LAN metropolitan area network MAN wide area network WAN a public data network e.g. the Internet short range wireless network or any other suitable packet switched network such as a commercially owned proprietary packet switched network e.g. a proprietary cable or fiber optic network and the like or any combination thereof. In addition the wireless network may be for example a cellular network and may employ various technologies including enhanced data rates for global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. worldwide interoperability for microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi wireless LAN WLAN Bluetooth Internet Protocol IP data casting satellite mobile ad hoc network MANET and the like or any combination thereof.

The UE is any type of mobile terminal fixed terminal or portable terminal including a mobile handset station unit device multimedia computer multimedia tablet Internet node communicator desktop computer laptop computer Personal Digital Assistant PDA audio video player digital camera camcorder positioning device television receiver radio broadcast receiver electronic book device game device or any combination thereof. It is also contemplated that the UE can support any type of interface to the user such as wearable circuitry etc. .

By way of example the UE network services and context aware recommendation service communicate with each other and other components of the communication network using well known new or still developing protocols. As used herein a protocol includes a set of rules defining how the network nodes within the communication network interact with each other based on information sent over the communication links. The protocols are effective at different layers of operation within each node from generating and receiving physical signals of various types to selecting a link for transferring those signals to the format of information indicated by those signals to identifying which software application executing on a computer system sends or receives the information. The conceptually different layers of protocols for exchanging information over a network are described in the Open Systems Interconnection OSI Reference Model.

Communications between the network nodes are typically effected by exchanging discrete packets of data. Each packet typically comprises 1 header information associated with a particular protocol and 2 payload information that follows the header information and contains information that may be processed independently of that particular protocol. In some protocols the packet includes 3 trailer information following the payload and indicating the end of the payload information. The header includes information such as the source of the packet its destination the length of the payload and other properties used by the protocol. Often the data in the payload for the particular protocol includes a header and payload for a different protocol associated with a different higher layer of the OSI Reference Model. The header for a particular protocol typically indicates a type for the next protocol contained in its payload. The higher layer protocol is said to be encapsulated in the lower layer protocol. The headers included in a packet traversing multiple heterogeneous networks such as the Internet typically include a physical layer 1 header a data link layer 2 header an internetwork layer 3 header and a transport layer 4 header and various application headers layer 5 layer 6 and layer 7 as defined by the OSI Reference Model.

The client server model of computer process interaction is widely known and used. According to the client server model a client process sends a message including a request to a server process and the server process responds by providing a service. The server process may also return a message with a response to the client process. Often the client process and server process execute on different computer devices called hosts and communicate via a network using one or more protocols for network communications. The term server is conventionally used to refer to the process that provides the service or the host on which the process operates. Similarly the term client is conventionally used to refer to the process that makes the request or the host on which the process operates. As used herein the terms client and server refer to the processes rather than the hosts unless otherwise clear from the context. In addition the process performed by a server can be broken up to run as multiple processes on multiple hosts sometimes called tiers for reasons that include reliability scalability and redundancy among others. A well known client process available on most nodes connected to a communications network is a World Wide Web client called a web browser or simply browser that interacts through messages formatted according to the hypertext transfer protocol HTTP with any of a large number of servers called World Wide Web WWW servers that provide web pages. For example internet search engine communicates with the browser using HTTP messages.

In the illustrated embodiment the context aware recommendation service includes a context indexed URL module that determines URLs of network resources of potential relevance to context of consumers who subscribes to the service e.g. by querying network services to which the consumers also subscribe or which the consumers have used historically or which are pre determined by the context aware recommendation service. In the illustrated embodiment the network services include a navigation service . The potentially relevant URLs are stored in association with topics from a context vocabulary topology. The associated context topics are stored with semantic topics discovered in the network resources associated with those URLs. Thus not all URLs for resources connected to network need be indexed with topics from the context vocabulary only those related to network services that relate to the context of the consumers of service. By connecting the context aware recommendation service to the network the service facilitates access including granting access rights to an interface to allow access to the service and module via the network .

The UE includes a browser for communicating with one or more of network services . The UE also includes a context client for communicating with a context aware recommendation service . In some embodiments the browser performs one or more functions of the context client . The context client determines the local context of a consumer who uses UE such as local time geographic position from positioning system local environmental conditions such as ambient temperature pressure light and sound applications currently executing on UE content currently being rendered on UE and user input through a user interface UI module . The context information is sent via network to the context aware recommendation service . At the context aware recommendation service a match is made between the current context of the consumer and the context indexed URLs maintained by the module . One or more URLs relevant to the consumer s current context are sent to the context client as recommendations. The recommended URLs are presented to the consumer e.g. in browser or UI module . When a recommended URL is selected by the consumer at UE the URL is accessed e.g. by launching the browser to send an HTTP request to the network resource indicated by the URL.

The positioning system is any positioning system known in the art such as the global positioning system GPS . The UI module includes one or more icons of picture elements to be presented on a display of the UE or sounds to play through a speaker and instructions to detect user input as typed keys or touches on a touch screen or some other operation of an input device on UE such as words spoken into a microphone.

Although processes modules and data structures are shown in and subsequent diagram as integral blocks arranged in a particular order on particular equipment for purposes of illustration in other embodiments one or more processes modules or data structures or portions thereof are arranged in a different order on the same or different equipment in communication with network . For example in some embodiments UI module is external to context client module .

In some embodiments e.g. in embodiments based on LDA there are only two levels of categories e.g. topics and words below the root level context vocabulary . Each topic is defined by a set of words each with a particular range of occurrence percentages. In some of these embodiments a vocabulary of V words is represented by a V dimensional vector and each word is represented by a V dimensional vector with zeros in all positions but the position that corresponds to that particular word. Typically words of low meaning such as articles prepositions pronouns and commonly used words are ignored Each of T topics is represented by a V dimensional vector with relative occurrences of each word in the topic represented by a percentage in the corresponding word positions. All topics are represented by a V T matrix.

When a word from the context vocabulary is found in a document that word is considered a mixture of the different topics that include that word with a percent probability assigned to each topic based on the percentage of words in the document for example using the well known methods of LDA. As a result the entire document can be represented by a set of topics found in the document with a probability metric assigned to each topic e.g. a T dimensional vector with varying probabilities in each position of the vector. Such a vector is called a token herein. Two documents can be compared by computing a similarity of the two T dimensional vectors tokens representing those documents such as a sum of products of corresponding terms. Alternatively or in addition a distance metric can be computed between the two documents which increases as the two tokens become less similar. Any distance metric can be used such as an order zero distance absolute value of the coordinate with the largest difference an order 1 distance a sum of the absolute values of the T differences an order two distance a sum of the squares of the T differences equivalent to the Euclidean distance an order three distance a sum of cubes of absolute values etc. The more similar are tokens from two documents or the smaller the distance between those tokens the more relevant are the documents to each other. In the following description it is assumed that a context vocabulary e.g. as illustrated in has been defined and is stored in a context vocabulary data structure. The context of a document or resource is represented by a context token. The more similar the context tokens of two documents e.g. the smaller the distance measure between them the more relevant one document is to the consumer context indicated by the other document. It is further assumed that there is a different whole language semantic vocabulary for all topics of a language such as is used in modern search engines.

The context indexed URL module interacts with one or more network services associated with consumers of the context aware recommendation service such as subscription service social network service and navigation service among others indicated by ellipsis collectively referenced hereinafter as consumer services . The context indexed URL module interacts with one or more URL search engines well known in the art such as internet URL search engines from GOOGLE of Mountain View Calif. and YAHOO of Sunnyvale Calif. The context indexed URL module also interacts with the context client on UE either directly or indirectly through the context aware recommendation service .

In the illustrated embodiment the context indexed URL module includes a data sourcing manager DSM module a service query manger QM module a query data integrator QDI module a context composition engine CCE module a context vocabulary data structure a context analyzer module and a context indexed URL repository data structure .

The data sourcing manager DSM module controls the other depicted modules and acts as central controller for the module . The DSM module determines sources of information relevant to consumer context such as sources of spatial temporal environmental or activity information like maps calendars weather services or social networks respectively. Each item relevant for consumer context is called a context feature herein or simply feature for convenience. For example the DSM performs a sweeping function for each section of a map from a mapping service such as a map service of NAVTEQ of Chicago Ill. or Lonely Planet within OVI maps 3.0 of NOKIA CORPORATION of Espoo Finland. The DSM module determines geographical coordinates for a map section and data indicating that points of interest are to be obtained in the map section associated with those geographical coordinates and sends the coordinates and data indicating points of interest to the QM module . Similarly the DSM module performs a sweeping function for each date on a calendar associated with one or more consumers such as a horoscope of astrological signs astronomical calendar of moon phases and season changes religious calendar of feast days for one or more religions or social calendar of civic holidays. Similarly the DSM module performs a sweeping function of groups defined on one or more social networking sites such as fans of a particular sporting team or celebrity or political movement. Thus in various embodiments the DSM module is configured to determine a network service that provides feature data that describes a context feature.

The query manager QM module connects to known network resources for consumers of the context aware recommendation service including map services and calendar services and social network services to obtain spatial temporal environmental and activity context information. The QM module constructs a client request for information or a command for a published application programming interface API depending on the network resource being queried. The QM module builds query structures or calls appropriate API sets based on the services being queried. The context indexed URL module is thus configured to cause at least in part actions that result in sending a query message to a network service.

For example based on map section information sent by the DSM module the QM module builds a command for an API to a map backend process in the navigation service . The map backend process of navigation service returns data available within each queried section such as POIs POI categories semantic descriptions URLs if any and exact geo coordinates. Thus in some embodiments the feature data describes a point of interest in a mapping service and the network service that provides the feature data that describes the context feature is a network mapping service.

Similarly based on a social networking service and group identified by the DSM module the QM module builds an HTTP request for a social networking service The social networking service returns data available within the group such as posts semantic descriptions and URLs if any. In this embodiment the network service that provides the feature data that describes the context feature is a social networking service.

Often URL information is not provided by the source of context information e.g. a website URL for a museum that is a POI is often not included in the data returned by the map backend process. When the QM module does not receive a URL but receives only certain information related to a location then in some embodiments the QM module queries other sources as well such as alternative map services or social network sites with certain parameters obtained from one or more of the sources. Data obtained from each source is then passed to the query data integrator QDI module . Thus the QM module is configured to receive feature data that describes the context feature in response to sending the query message to the network service.

The query data integrator QDI module includes a set of rules that takes a single context feature as an integration point for example geo coordinates or time period or social networking group and then integrates all data available with the feature into a single context feature data structure. Thus in some embodiments feature data describes a group of one or more items available from one or more services to which a consumer subscribes. The QDI integrator then passes the context feature data structure to the context composition engine CCE module . In some embodiments in which URL information is provided the QM module directly passes the URL through the QDI module to context composition engine CCE module .

The context composition engine CCE module parses the context feature data structure to determine whether the URL is present. Thus in response to receiving feature data that describes a context feature the CCE module determines a network resource that is associated with the feature data. If the URL is present the CCE module determines whether one or more context tokens are included. A context token indicates a probability of each of one or more topics from the context vocabulary. If context tokens are missing the CCE module uses descriptions from the context feature data structure to determine the distributions of probabilities in those descriptions of topics from the context vocabulary data structure . Furthermore the CCE module sends descriptions from the context feature data structure or the resource indicated by the URL or both to the content analyzer module to determine the distributions of probabilities in those descriptions of topics from the semantic vocabulary data structure . The content analyzer module returns one semantic token to the CCE module for each description. Thus the CCE module determines a feature context token that indicates a probability of a topic from the context vocabulary in the feature data and determines resource and feature semantic tokens that each indicates a probability of a topic from the semantic vocabulary. The CCE module fills the context feature data structure as a kind of pre defined context template with the feature and URL information including context tokens and semantic tokens. If all the fields of the template are filled the CCE module then passes the filled template e.g. feature record described below to context indexed URL repository for storage and later retrieval by the context aware recommendation service .

If the URL information is missing then the CCE module identifies any network resources related to the available information by utilizing open APIs for searching provided by popular internet URL search engines such as internet search engine . Therefore the CCE module causes at least in part actions that result in sending to a network resource search engine a topic from the context vocabulary based on the feature context token for the feature. Thus in response to receiving first data that describes a context feature the CCE module determines a network resource that is associated with the first data. One or more of the URLs with the highest match scores are taken as candidates to be added to the appropriate field of the template. Thus the CCE module determines the network resource e.g. URL for a feature based on data returned from the network resource search engine. The resources indicated by these candidate URLs and descriptions in the context feature data structure are passed by the CCE module to the content analyzer module .

The content analyzer module parses the content e.g. of a fetched web page extracts the tags and then performs semantic matching to a pre defined internal vocabulary e.g. a semantic vocabulary different from context vocabulary and provides a semantic token that identifies the topics and probabilities for the content. Thus the content analyzer determines semantic tokens for the feature data structure and each candidate URL based on the content vocabulary and passes these tokens back to the CCE module . By using the content analyzer module to determine the semantic tokens for candidate URLs the CCE module determines a semantic token that indicates a probability of a topic from a semantic vocabulary in the network resource.

The CCE module then fills in missing semantic tokens in the template based on the semantic tokens for the feature data structure and URLs. The CCE module determines one of the candidate URLs if there are more than one based on similarity of the semantic token of the candidate URL to the feature semantic token of the feature. In some embodiments the degree of similarity is characterized as a relationship parameter e.g. with values indicating substantively exact nearby or distant or a distance metric or both and the relationship data is included in the filled in template. The CCE module stores the filled in template e g. as feature record described below in the context indexed URL repository for later retrieval. Thus the CCE module causes at least in part actions that result in storing data that indicates the network resource in association with the context token. In some embodiments the CCE module determines a resource semantic token that indicates a probability of a topic from the semantic vocabulary in a candidate network resource and a feature semantic token that indicates a probability of a topic from the semantic vocabulary in a feature description. In some embodiments the CCE module then determines a distance metric based on the feature semantic token in the feature data and the resource semantic token for the candidate network resource. In some of these embodiments the candidate network resource is selected as the network resource associated with the first data if the distance metric is less than a threshold.

Context data from context client is passed to the DSM module either directly or indirectly through the context aware recommendation service . The DSM module determines if the current context of a consumer matches any of the contexts in the context indexed URL repository. If so then a URL in a matching record is pushed as a recommendation to the context client or browser on the same UE . Thus the module of the service is further configured to receive a message that includes data that indicates a context for a particular consumer and to determine whether the context for the particular consumer is close to a context token associated with the network resource. The network data e.g. URL identifying the network resource is transmitted if it is determined that the context for the consumer is close to the context token associated with the network resource e.g. the URL .

In some embodiments a URL is pushed only if the context token is less than a threshold distance from the client context. Thus in some embodiments determining whether the context for the particular consumer is close to the context token associated with the network resource further comprises determining that the context for the particular consumer is closer than a threshold value to the resource context tokens associated with the network resource. In some embodiments only the closest one URL is pushed to the context client. In such embodiments determining whether the context for the particular consumer is close to the context token associated with the network resource further comprises determining that the context for the particular consumer is closer to the context token associated with the network resource than to a context token associated with any other network resource.

The operation of the components of is illustrated with an example mapping embodiment. is a diagram of a roadmap tile with points of interest according to an embodiment. The roadmap tile includes rows of picture elements pixels arranged in a horizontal dimension and columns of pixels arranged in a vertical dimension . The pixels represent map information such as landform e.g. a lake or park and one or more points of interest and collectively referenced hereinafter as pointes of interest such as a bank or theater. The tile also includes pixels representing road segment road segment road segment and road segment among others collectively called road segments hereinafter. For purposes of illustration it is assumed that this tile is identified within a two dimensional array of map tiles by a horizontal index and a vertical index and a zoom level value. Data associated with the landform points of interest and road segments are maintained by a map backend process for the navigation service . For purposes of illustration it is assumed that a published API is available for retrieving the data associated with the map tiles from the map backend process.

When the context indexed URL module requests POI data from the map backend process and then associates that POI data with context topics and a URL the combined information is stored in a POI data structure within the context indexed URL repository . is a diagram of a points of interest data structure with context indexed URL information according to an embodiment. Although data structures and fields therein are depicted in and subsequent diagram of as integral blocks in a particular order for purposes of illustration in other embodiments one or more fields or portions thereof are stored in one or more data structures such as databases on one or more nodes on a network such as network or one or more fields or portions thereof are omitted or one or more fields are added or the data structure is changed in some combination of ways.

In the illustrated embodiment the points of interest data structure includes a point of interest POI record for each point of interest retrieved from a mapping service such as a map backend process of navigation service or navigation service . POI records for other points of interest are indicated by ellipsis.

The POI record is one example of a context feature data structure for a single feature e.g. a particular POI. The POI record includes a POI identifier ID field a geolocation field an icon field a description field a POI context tokens field a discovered URL field a URL semantic tokens field a content relationship field and a distance metric field .

The POI ID field includes data that uniquely indicates the POI among all sources of points of interest. For example the POI ID field holds data that indicates a mapping process from which the POI was derived and the unique POI identifier in that mapping process.

The geolocation field holds data that indicates the geolocation of the point of interest e.g. latitude and longitude coordinates and in some embodiments a vertical or radial coordinate such as altitude or distance from Earth s center. The icon field holds data that indicates a set of one or more pixels used to present a symbol representing the point of interest on a display device such as a pointer to a file that contains an image of a bank symbol.

The description field holds data that describes the point of interest such as text that indicates a name for the point of interest and text that indicates one or more of a category e.g. bank museum restaurant airport etc. a postal address an owner s name an owner s address a description of activities that occur there one or more associated URLs if any and any other information provided by the mapping backend process in response to a query.

The POI context tokens field holds data that indicates context tokens if any derived from data in the description field and zero or more of fields and .

The discovered URL field holds data that indicates a network address of a network resource such as the URL of that resource. If one URL is included in the description field then in some embodiments data indicating that URL is moved to or repeated in field . If multiple URLs are included in the description field then data indicating one of those URLs is moved to or repeated in field . One URL of many may be selected for field in any manner known in the art such as always the first URL that appears in description field always the URL of any other order such as the last or middle of an odd number or at random. In some embodiments data is retrieved from each resource of the multiple resources indicated by the multiple URLs and a semantic token of each is determined in the content analyzer module and the one URL that has a semantic token that most closely matches a semantic token for the feature is selected for field . In some embodiments if no URL appears in description field then a URL search engine is queried with text derived from topics indicated by one or more context tokens in the POI context tokens field and one of the URLs returned is determined for the discovered URL field using any of the methods described above for multiple URLs in description field .

The URL semantic tokens field holds data that indicates one or more semantic tokens derived from the resource indicated by the URL indicated in field as determined by the content analyzer module .

The context relationship to POI field holds data that indicates the type of agreement between the semantic tokens for the feature and the semantic tokens in field e.g. substantively exact nearby or distant. The content relationship to POI field is an example means to achieve the advantage of determining rapidly whether a discovered URL is well matched to the POI and worth presenting to a user compared to other URLs associated with other POIs.

The distance metric field holds data that indicates a distance between the POI semantic tokens and the URL semantic tokens in field . Again any measure of distance may be used such as Euclidean distance between the closest token in the POI set to any token in the URL set or some weighted function of the distances between several tokens in each set. Typically there is only one token in each set. The distance metric field combined with the URL semantic tokens field is an example means to achieve the advantage of replacing a distant URL found at one time with a closer URL found at a later time so that the context indexed URL repository improves in context relevance over time.

In some embodiments field is used instead of fields and . Omitting fields and is an example means of achieving the advantage of reducing the size of each POI record and hence reducing the total memory or storage demands of the data structure and repository while still allowing a comparison of relative value of several URLs to a consumer s current context.

POI record is an example means to provide the advantage of associating a URL with context features that can be related to a consumer s current context such as the consumer s current location.

Similar data structures are employed for other types of context features. is a diagram of a context features data structure with context indexed URL information according to an embodiment. In some embodiments context features data structure includes points of interest data structure with for example the geolocation field included in feature ID field described below. When the context indexed URL module requests a context feature from a backend process or a network service and then associates the returned data with context topics and a URL the combined information is stored in a context features data structure within the context indexed URL repository .

In the illustrated embodiment the context features data structure includes a feature record for each feature retrieved from a consumer service such as a social networking service . Feature records for other features are indicated by ellipsis. The feature record includes a feature identifier ID field an icon field a feature description field a feature context tokens field a discovered URL field a URL semantic tokens field a content relationship field and a distance metric field . These fields are analogous to fields and respectively described above

The feature ID field includes data that uniquely indicates the feature among all sources of features. For example the feature ID field holds data that indicates a network service from which the feature was derived and the unique feature identifier in that service such as a celebrity fan group in a social networking service for a particular celebrity. In some embodiments in which map POIs are included in the context features data structure the geolocation field is included in the feature ID field .

The icon field holds data that indicates a set of one or more pixels used to present a symbol representing the feature on a display device such as a pointer to a file that contains an image of the celebrity.

The description field holds data that describes the feature such as text that indicates a name for the group and text that indicates one or more posts published by the group one or more associated URLs if any and any other information provided by the social networking service in response to a query directed to the group.

The feature context tokens field holds data that indicates context tokens if any derived from data in the description field and zero or more of fields and .

The discovered URL field holds data that indicates a network address of a network resource such as the URL of that resource. If one URL is included in the description field then in some embodiments data indicating that URL is moved to or repeated in field . If multiple URLs are included in the description field then data indicating one of those URLs is moved to or repeated in field . One URL of many may be selected for field in any manner known in the art as described above. In some embodiments if no URL appears in description field then a URL search engine is queried with text derived from topics indicated in the feature context tokens field and one of the URLs returned is selected for the discovered URL field using any of the methods described above for multiple URLs in description field .

The URL semantic tokens field holds data that indicates one or more semantic tokens derived from the resource indicated by the URL indicated in field as determined by the content analyzer module .

The content relationship to feature field holds data that indicates the type of agreement between the semantic token for the feature and the semantic tokens in field e.g. substantively exact nearby or distant. The content relationship to feature field is an example means to achieve the advantage of determining rapidly whether a discovered URL is well matched to the feature and thus worth presenting to a user compared to other URLs associated with other features.

The distance metric field holds data that indicates a distance between the feature semantic tokens and the URL semantic tokens in field . Again any measure of distance may be used as described above. The distance metric field combined with the URL semantic tokens field is an example means to achieve the advantage of replacing a distant URL found at one time with a closer URL found at a later time so that the context indexed URL repository improves in context relevance over time.

In some embodiments field is used instead of fields and . Omitting fields and is an example means of achieving the advantage of reducing the size of each feature record and hence reducing the total memory or storage demands of the data structure and repository while still allowing a comparison of relative value of several URLs to a consumer s current context.

Feature record is an example means to provide the advantage of associating a URL with context features that can be related to a consumer s current context such as the consumer s current time or activity. For example if the user s current activity includes viewing posts to a social networking group of fans of a particular celebrity record associates that social networking group with a URL of the celebrity s website.

In step the next source of context information is determined. In the illustrated embodiment the next source is determined by the DSM module . Any method may be used to determine the next source e.g. by a priori selection of one or more network services or such as network services available from the same vendor that provides the context aware recommendation service including one or more mapping services and social networking services. For example the next map tile in the NAVTEQ backend map process is identified as a source of spatial context information. In some embodiments a context client monitors the messages and activities of consumers of the context aware recommendation service and reports those activities and messages to the DSM module . The DSM module determines what context features are involved with such activities such as map points of interest calendar events social networking groups and determining whether a URL is associated in the context indexed URL repository with such context features such as points of interest from the map tile currently requested by the consumer. If not then the network service associated with the messages or activities is identified as a source of context information e.g. the messaging service or social networking service or mapping service with which the consumer is currently communicating.

In step the next source of context information is queried for one or more context features such as POIs from the next tile of a mapping process. In the illustrated embodiment the DSM module sends the information for the query such as the map service and tile identifier or social networking service and group to the service query manager QM module . The QM module determines the format for the query and sends the query to the source of the context information. For example the QM module determines the proper command to the published API of the source e.g. the NAVTEQ mapping backend process and sends that command. In some embodiments the QM module maintains a data structure with templates of queries for various sources and fills in those templates with information sent by the DSM module then issues the query. Results are received back from the source by the QM module e.g. the points of interest in the map tile or the latest posts to a social networking group are returned in one or more messages sent over the network .

In step data from the results received in step are moved into a data structure that relates the feature to context tokens. In the illustrated embodiment the query data integrator QDI module performs step with results passed from the QM module . For example data is moved to feature record data structure . The feature identifier e.g. the source network service or API and the social network group identifier at that source is placed in the feature ID field . If the feature is a map POI the geo coordinates are placed in the geolocation field e.g. in the feature ID field . An icon for the feature if available is placed in icon field . The description of the feature provided in the results is placed in feature description field . If one or more context tokens are included in the results those are moved to the feature context tokens field.

In step the feature context token for the feature are determined. In the illustrated embodiment step and following steps and are performed or controlled by the context composition engine CCE . To simplify the description reference will be made to fields in the feature record but it is understood that if the feature is a map POI the corresponding fields in POI record are also indicated.

Step includes determining whether one or more context tokens already appear in the feature context tokens field . If so then no further action is taken in step . If not then the description in field appended to the description in feature ID field or icon field in some embodiments or the geolocation field in some POI embodiments is used with context vocabulary to determine the context token indicated by the compilation of these fields e.g. using the well known methods of LDA or pLSI. The feature context token is placed in feature context tokens field . In some embodiments different portions of the compilation are used separately and each produces a different context token all of which are stored in field .

In step it is determined whether a URL is included in the feature description field . If so then control passes to step to determine a resource semantic token for the URL. In some embodiments multiple URLs are included in the description field and considered in step . In some embodiments considering multiple candidate URLs the semantic token for each URL is determined by sending the content of the resource indicated by the candidate URL to the content analyzer module which returns a candidate resource semantic token. The URL with a resource semantic token most similar to a semantic token for the feature description is determined to be the best URL. Data indicating the best URL is placed in the discovered URL field of the feature record . Data indicating the resource semantic token of the best URL is placed in the URL semantic tokens field of the feature record .

In some embodiments similarity is determined between two sets at least one of which has multiple context tokens. Any method may be used to determine the similarity between the set of context tokens of a URL called the URL set and the set of context tokens of the feature called the feature set . For example in some embodiments a distance or similarity is determined between the context token of the feature set with the most probable topic and the context token of the URL set that is closest. In some embodiments a distance or similarity is determined between the context token of the feature set with the most probable topic and the context token of the URL set that is has the most probable topic. In some embodiments a weighted sum of the distance or similarities of multiple pairs of context tokens is determined each pair having one context token from the feature set and one context token from the URL set. The pairs can be formed using any method such as most probable remaining context token of the feature set paired with the most probable remaining context token of the URL set or most probable remaining context token of the feature set paired with the closest remaining context token of the URL set.

In step the distance between the feature context token and the resource context token for the best URL is determined. In some embodiments data indicating this distance is placed in the distance metric field of the feature record . In some embodiments a relationship is determined based on the size of the distance computed. For example if the distance is less than a first threshold then the resource indicated by the URL is said to have a relationship to the feature that is substantively exact. If the distance is greater than the first threshold but less than a second threshold then the resource indicated by the URL is said to have a relationship to the feature that is close. If the distance is greater than the second threshold then the resource indicated by the URL is said to have a relationship to the feature that is distant. In these embodiments data indicating the relationship is placed in the context relationship to feature field .

In step the feature record with all fields filled is placed in the context indexed URL repository data structure such as a database.

If it is determined in step that no URL is included in the feature description field then in step other sources are queried to obtain more information about the feature and the feature description is updated with additional information. For example the QM module queries other sources associated with the consumers of the context aware recommendation service with certain parameters obtained from one or more previous sources for the feature such as the POI or social networking group. Data obtained from each source is then passed to the QDI module which updates the feature ID field or icon field or feature description field or some combination. The QDI module then passes the updated feature record to the CCE module to perform step .

In step context vocabulary words associated with one or more topics in one or more corresponding tokens associated with the feature are submitted to a URL search engine such as GOOGLE or YAHOO. For example the CCE module constructs a text string based on words associated with the most probable topics in the feature context token in field and submits the text string to the URL search engine . As a result one or more URLs are returned e.g. to the CCE module . In some embodiments the most relevant URL e.g. the first URL returned by the search engine is passed to step and following to determine the resource context token for the URL and distance or relationship or both. In some embodiments several of the most relevant URLs e.g. the first five URLs returned by the search engine are passed to step and following to determine the context tokens for the URLs the best URL and distance or relationship or both of the best URL to the feature. Use of standard URL search engine is an example means of obtaining the advantage of avoiding the bandwidth and cost consumption of monitoring all network resources for context information.

In step it is determined whether a context client process on user equipment e.g. UE of a consumer has sent a message indicating the current context of the consumer. For example an extended markup language XML message is received from context client indicating one or more context parameters and values such as geolocation of UE time of interest to consumer current channel of sources of interest current activities culled from one or more messages sent or received by the consumer applications currently running on the UE current category of user activities e.g. work home vacation dining etc. among others. If not control passes to step to determine whether conditions are satisfied for ending the process. If so the process ends otherwise the process continues at step to mine another source for context information. If a message indicating the current context of the consumer is received in sep then control passes to step .

In step the context values are matched to one or more context topics e.g. by determining a consumer context token for the contents of the message received in step by using the content analyzer module . This consumer context token is compared to the context tokens in the feature context tokens field of several records to find one or more features relevant to the consumer s current context. For example a feature is relevant if the distance between the consumer context token and the feature context token is less than a threshold distance. The URLs in the discovered URL field of the most relevant feature records are then pushed to the UE for presentation to a consumer e.g. in one or more HTTP messages to browser or one or more messages to context client for presentation via the UI module . Thus context relevant URLs are recommended to the consumer.

In some embodiments step and step are performed by the context aware recommendation service . In some embodiments one or both steps are performed by the DSM module of the context indexed URL module .

In step local context on UE is determined. Any method may be used to determine local context. For example current location of UE is determined based on output from the positioning system module . Current time and executing applications on UE are determined by one or more queries to an operating system on UE as is well known in the art. In some embodiments one or more data sources such as a social networking service or messaging service and activities such as work home vacation dining shopping are determined by monitoring messages sent by and received at the UE as is well known in the art.

In step a user is prompted for a context channel. For example the UI presents one or more context channels on a display screen with active areas to indicate when the user has selected one of the context channels. Each context channel is associated with types of sources or activities of interest to the user at the current time such as socializing music listening video watching news reading trip planning among others.

Thus in step or step or both the context client determines local context data that indicates one or more of temporal spatial environmental or activity circumstances of a consumer of network services.

In step the context of the consumer is sent to the context aware recommendation service e.g. in one or more messages including XML payloads. The XML payload indicates the context parameters and values that describe the consumer s current context. Thus the context client causes at least in part actions that result in sending the local context data to a service via a network .

In step it is determined whether one or more URLs are received from the context aware recommendation service or a component thereof such as the DSM module . If not then in step it is determined whether end conditions are satisfied e.g. powering down the UE . If so then the process ends otherwise control passes back to step to update the local context. Either the context client or the browser may receive the URLs. Thus the context client or browser on the UE determines whether data that indicates a network resource is received in response to sending the local context data.

If it is determined in step that one or more URLs are received from the context aware recommendation service or a component thereof then in step the one or more URLs are presented to a user for selection. In some embodiments the URLs are presented by the UI module in the same UI used to determine the context channel selected by the consumer. In some embodiments one or more of the URLs are presented in a web page displayed by a browser . Thus if a URL that indicates the network resource is received then the client or browser causes at least in part actions that result in presenting data that indicates the network resource to the consumer.

In step it is determined whether a consumer has selected a URL e.g using a pointing device such as a touchscreen or cursor and control keys. If not then control passes to step to determine whether end conditions are satisfied as described above.

If it is determined in step that a consumer has selected a URL then in step the browser requests and displays the web page from the URL. If the browser is not executing when the URL is selected e.g. the URL is presented by the UI module of the context client then step includes launching the browser and then requesting and displaying the web page from the URL. Thus in some embodiments the context client launches a browser to access the network resource if it is determined that the consumer has selected the data that indicates the network resource in response to presenting the data that indicates the network resource to the consumer.

In step the browser is operated based on user input e.g. the consumer interacts with one or more items or links on the web page provided by the URL. Control then flows to step to determine if end conditions are satisfied as described above.

An advantage of system is that external service providers are not required to enter their own URLs and provide context data related to their content. This saves processor and memory usage by operators on the operators equipment. Instead the context indexed URL module obtains data directly from maps and other sources associated with consumers. Storage on the apparatus hosting the context indexed URL module is conserved because there is no need to have a separate tool for content providers. Costs are saved because separate tools do not need to be developed for each network resource and there are no solicitation costs to obtain context data from providers of network resources. Network bandwidth is conserved that would otherwise be consumed in sending and responding to such solicitations and monitoring content of all network resources. Time to market is significantly improved by possibly years as there is already data available for the context aware recommendation service by focusing on a subset of services which are employed by consumers of the context aware recommendation service. The comprehensive monitoring of the advertiser supported free URL search engine is leveraged to identify other network resources outside the focus subset. Because the system is automated there is less manual intervention and improved management and service infrastructure. The modularized framework depicted in is an example means to achieve the advantage of allowing new sources of data to be added simply when available a corresponding query stack is added to the QM module without affecting the operation of the other modules or data structures and .

The processes described herein for providing context indexed network resources may be advantageously implemented via software hardware firmware or a combination of software and or firmware and or hardware. For example the processes described herein including for providing user interface navigation information associated with the availability of services may be advantageously implemented via processor s Digital Signal Processing DSP chip an Application Specific Integrated Circuit ASIC Field Programmable Gate Arrays FPGAs etc. Such exemplary hardware for performing the described functions is detailed below.

A bus includes one or more parallel conductors of information so that information is transferred quickly among devices coupled to the bus . One or more processors for processing information are coupled with the bus .

A processor or multiple processors performs a set of operations on information as specified by computer program code related to providing context indexed network resources. The computer program code is a set of instructions or statements providing instructions for the operation of the processor and or the computer system to perform specified functions. The code for example may be written in a computer programming language that is compiled into a native instruction set of the processor. The code may also be written directly using the native instruction set e.g. machine language . The set of operations include bringing information in from the bus and placing information on the bus . The set of operations also typically include comparing two or more units of information shifting positions of units of information and combining two or more units of information such as by addition or multiplication or logical operations like OR exclusive OR XOR and AND. Each operation of the set of operations that can be performed by the processor is represented to the processor by information called instructions such as an operation code of one or more digits. A sequence of operations to be executed by the processor such as a sequence of operation codes constitute processor instructions also called computer system instructions or simply computer instructions. Processors may be implemented as mechanical electrical magnetic optical chemical or quantum components among others alone or in combination.

Computer system also includes a memory coupled to bus . The memory such as a random access memory RAM or other dynamic storage device stores information including processor instructions for providing context indexed network resources. Dynamic memory allows information stored therein to be changed by the computer system . RAM allows a unit of information stored at a location called a memory address to be stored and retrieved independently of information at neighboring addresses. The memory is also used by the processor to store temporary values during execution of processor instructions. The computer system also includes a read only memory ROM or other static storage device coupled to the bus for storing static information including instructions that is not changed by the computer system . Some memory is composed of volatile storage that loses the information stored thereon when power is lost. Also coupled to bus is a non volatile persistent storage device such as a magnetic disk optical disk or flash card for storing information including instructions that persists even when the computer system is turned off or otherwise loses power.

Information including instructions for providing context indexed network resources is provided to the bus for use by the processor from an external input device such as a keyboard containing alphanumeric keys operated by a human user or a sensor. A sensor detects conditions in its vicinity and transforms those detections into physical expression compatible with the measurable phenomenon used to represent information in computer system . Other external devices coupled to bus used primarily for interacting with humans include a display device such as a cathode ray tube CRT or a liquid crystal display LCD or plasma screen or printer for presenting text or images and a pointing device such as a mouse or a trackball or cursor direction keys or motion sensor for controlling a position of a small cursor image presented on the display and issuing commands associated with graphical elements presented on the display . In some embodiments for example in embodiments in which the computer system performs all functions automatically without human input one or more of external input device display device and pointing device is omitted.

In the illustrated embodiment special purpose hardware such as an application specific integrated circuit ASIC is coupled to bus . The special purpose hardware is configured to perform operations not performed by processor quickly enough for special purposes. Examples of application specific ICs include graphics accelerator cards for generating images for display cryptographic boards for encrypting and decrypting messages sent over a network speech recognition and interfaces to special external devices such as robotic arms and medical scanning equipment that repeatedly perform some complex sequence of operations that are more efficiently implemented in hardware.

Computer system also includes one or more instances of a communications interface coupled to bus . Communication interface provides a one way or two way communication coupling to a variety of external devices that operate with their own processors such as printers scanners and external disks. In general the coupling is with a network link that is connected to a local network to which a variety of external devices with their own processors are connected. For example communication interface may be a parallel port or a serial port or a universal serial bus USB port on a personal computer. In some embodiments communications interface is an integrated services digital network ISDN card or a digital subscriber line DSL card or a telephone modem that provides an information communication connection to a corresponding type of telephone line. In some embodiments a communication interface is a cable modem that converts signals on bus into signals for a communication connection over a coaxial cable or into optical signals for a communication connection over a fiber optic cable. As another example communications interface may be a local area network LAN card to provide a data communication connection to a compatible LAN such as Ethernet. Wireless links may also be implemented. For wireless links the communications interface sends or receives or both sends and receives electrical acoustic or electromagnetic signals including infrared and optical signals that carry information streams such as digital data. For example in wireless handheld devices such as mobile telephones like cell phones the communications interface includes a radio band electromagnetic transmitter and receiver called a radio transceiver. In certain embodiments the communications interface enables connection to the communication network for providing context indexed network resources to the UE .

The term computer readable medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing information to processor including instructions for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to computer readable storage medium e.g. non volatile media volatile media and transmission media. Non transitory media such as non volatile media include for example optical or magnetic disks such as storage device . Volatile media include for example dynamic memory . Transmission media include for example coaxial cables copper wire fiber optic cables and carrier waves that travel through space without wires or cables such as acoustic waves and electromagnetic waves including radio optical and infrared waves. Signals include man made transient variations in amplitude frequency phase polarization or other physical properties transmitted through the transmission media. Common forms of computer readable media include for example a floppy disk a flexible disk hard disk magnetic tape any other magnetic medium a CD ROM CDRW DVD any other optical medium punch cards paper tape optical mark sheets any other physical medium with patterns of holes or other optically recognizable indicia a RAM a PROM an EPROM a FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge a carrier wave or any other medium from which a computer can read. The term computer readable storage medium is used herein to refer to any computer readable medium except transmission media.

Logic encoded in one or more tangible media includes one or both of processor instructions on a computer readable storage media and special purpose hardware such as ASIC .

Network link typically provides information communication using transmission media through one or more networks to other devices that use or process the information. For example network link may provide a connection through local network to a host computer or to equipment operated by an Internet Service Provider ISP . ISP equipment in turn provides data communication services through the public world wide packet switching communication network of networks now commonly referred to as the Internet .

A computer called a server host connected to the Internet hosts a process that provides a service in response to information received over the Internet. For example server host hosts a process that provides information representing video data for presentation at display . It is contemplated that the components of system can be deployed in various configurations within other computer systems e.g. host and server .

At least some embodiments of the invention are related to the use of computer system for implementing some or all of the techniques described herein. According to one embodiment of the invention those techniques are performed by computer system in response to processor executing one or more sequences of one or more processor instructions contained in memory . Such instructions also called computer instructions software and program code may be read into memory from another computer readable medium such as storage device or network link . Execution of the sequences of instructions contained in memory causes processor to perform one or more of the method steps described herein. In alternative embodiments hardware such as ASIC may be used in place of or in combination with software to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware and software unless otherwise explicitly stated herein.

The signals transmitted over network link and other networks through communications interface carry information to and from computer system . Computer system can send and receive information including program code through the networks among others through network link and communications interface . In an example using the Internet a server host transmits program code for a particular application requested by a message sent from computer through Internet ISP equipment local network and communications interface . The received code may be executed by processor as it is received or may be stored in memory or in storage device or other non volatile storage for later execution or both. In this manner computer system may obtain application program code in the form of signals on a carrier wave.

Various forms of computer readable media may be involved in carrying one or more sequence of instructions or data or both to processor for execution. For example instructions and data may initially be carried on a magnetic disk of a remote computer such as host . The remote computer loads the instructions and data into its dynamic memory and sends the instructions and data over a telephone line using a modem. A modem local to the computer system receives the instructions and data on a telephone line and uses an infra red transmitter to convert the instructions and data to a signal on an infra red carrier wave serving as the network link . An infrared detector serving as communications interface receives the instructions and data carried in the infrared signal and places information representing the instructions and data onto bus . Bus carries the information to memory from which processor retrieves and executes the instructions using some of the data sent with the instructions. The instructions and data received in memory may optionally be stored on storage device either before or after execution by the processor .

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes a communication mechanism such as a bus for passing information among the components of the chip set . A processor has connectivity to the bus to execute instructions and process information stored in for example a memory . The processor may include one or more processing cores with each core configured to perform independently. A multi core processor enables multiprocessing within a single physical package. Examples of a multi core processor include two four eight or greater numbers of processing cores. Alternatively or in addition the processor may include one or more microprocessors configured in tandem via the bus to enable independent execution of instructions pipelining and multithreading. The processor may also be accompanied with one or more specialized components to perform certain processing functions and tasks such as one or more digital signal processors DSP or one or more application specific integrated circuits ASIC . A DSP typically is configured to process real world signals e.g. sound in real time independently of the processor . Similarly an ASIC can be configured to performed specialized functions not easily performed by a more general purpose processor. Other specialized components to aid in performing the inventive functions described herein may include one or more field programmable gate arrays FPGA not shown one or more controllers not shown or one or more other special purpose computer chips.

In one embodiment the chip set or chip includes merely one or more processors and some software and or firmware supporting and or relating to and or for the one or more processors.

The processor and accompanying components have connectivity to the memory via the bus . The memory includes both dynamic memory e.g. RAM magnetic disk writable optical disk etc. and static memory e.g. ROM CD ROM etc. for storing executable instructions that when executed perform the inventive steps described herein to provide context indexed network resources. The memory also stores the data associated with or generated by the execution of the inventive steps.

Pertinent internal components of the telephone include a Main Control Unit MCU a Digital Signal Processor DSP and a receiver transmitter unit including a microphone gain control unit and a speaker gain control unit. A main display unit provides a display to the user in support of various applications and mobile terminal functions that perform or support the steps of providing context indexed network resources. The display includes display circuitry configured to display at least a portion of a user interface of the mobile terminal e.g. mobile telephone . Additionally the display and display circuitry are configured to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal. An audio function circuitry includes a microphone and microphone amplifier that amplifies the speech signal output from the microphone . The amplified speech signal output from the microphone is fed to a coder decoder CODEC .

A radio section amplifies power and converts frequency in order to communicate with a base station which is included in a mobile communication system via antenna . The power amplifier PA and the transmitter modulation circuitry are operationally responsive to the MCU with an output from the PA coupled to the duplexer or circulator or antenna switch as known in the art. The PA also couples to a battery interface and power control unit .

In use a user of mobile terminal speaks into the microphone and his or her voice along with any detected background noise is converted into an analog voltage. The analog voltage is then converted into a digital signal through the Analog to Digital Converter ADC . The control unit routes the digital signal into the DSP for processing therein such as speech encoding channel encoding encrypting and interleaving. In one embodiment the processed voice signals are encoded by units not separately shown using a cellular transmission protocol such as global evolution EDGE general packet radio service GPRS global system for mobile communications GSM Internet protocol multimedia subsystem IMS universal mobile telecommunications system UMTS etc. as well as any other suitable wireless medium e.g. microwave access WiMAX Long Term Evolution LTE networks code division multiple access CDMA wideband code division multiple access WCDMA wireless fidelity WiFi satellite and the like.

The encoded signals are then routed to an equalizer for compensation of any frequency dependent impairments that occur during transmission though the air such as phase and amplitude distortion. After equalizing the bit stream the modulator combines the signal with a RF signal generated in the RF interface . The modulator generates a sine wave by way of frequency or phase modulation. In order to prepare the signal for transmission an up converter combines the sine wave output from the modulator with another sine wave generated by a synthesizer to achieve the desired frequency of transmission. The signal is then sent through a PA to increase the signal to an appropriate power level. In practical systems the PA acts as a variable gain amplifier whose gain is controlled by the DSP from information received from a network base station. The signal is then filtered within the duplexer and optionally sent to an antenna coupler to match impedances to provide maximum power transfer. Finally the signal is transmitted via antenna to a local base station. An automatic gain control AGC can be supplied to control the gain of the final stages of the receiver. The signals may be forwarded from there to a remote telephone which may be another cellular telephone other mobile phone or a land line connected to a Public Switched Telephone Network PSTN or other telephony networks.

Voice signals transmitted to the mobile terminal are received via antenna and immediately amplified by a low noise amplifier LNA . A down converter lowers the carrier frequency while the demodulator strips away the RF leaving only a digital bit stream. The signal then goes through the equalizer and is processed by the DSP . A Digital to Analog Converter DAC converts the signal and the resulting output is transmitted to the user through the speaker all under control of a Main Control Unit MCU which can be implemented as a Central Processing Unit CPU not shown .

The MCU receives various signals including input signals from the keyboard . The keyboard and or the MCU in combination with other user input components e.g. the microphone comprise a user interface circuitry for managing user input. The MCU runs a user interface software to facilitate user control of at least some functions of the mobile terminal to provide context indexed network resources. The MCU also delivers a display command and a switch command to the display and to the speech output switching controller respectively. Further the MCU exchanges information with the DSP and can access an optionally incorporated SIM card and a memory . In addition the MCU executes various control functions required of the terminal. The DSP may depending upon the implementation perform any of a variety of conventional digital processing functions on the voice signals. Additionally DSP determines the background noise level of the local environment from the signals detected by microphone and sets the gain of microphone to a level selected to compensate for the natural tendency of the user of the mobile terminal .

The CODEC includes the ADC and DAC . The memory stores various data including call incoming tone data and is capable of storing other data including music data received via e.g. the global Internet. The software module could reside in RAM memory flash memory registers or any other form of writable storage medium known in the art. The memory device may be but not limited to a single memory CD DVD ROM RAM EEPROM optical storage or any other non volatile storage medium capable of storing digital data.

An optionally incorporated SIM card carries for instance important information such as the cellular phone number the carrier supplying service subscription details and security information. The SIM card serves primarily to identify the mobile terminal on a radio network. The card also contains a memory for storing a personal telephone number registry text messages and user specific mobile terminal settings.

While the invention has been described in connection with a number of embodiments and implementations the invention is not so limited but covers various obvious modifications and equivalent arrangements which fall within the purview of the appended claims. Although features of the invention are expressed in certain combinations among the claims it is contemplated that these features can be arranged in any combination and order.

