---

title: Communication routing based on presence in a confined wireless environment
abstract: System(s), method(s) and user interfaces are provided to route an incoming communication (e.g., a voice call, a data call) to a wireless devices or a wireline device, based in part on at least one routing preference and a presence condition of a mobile device in a confined wireless environment served by a confined-coverage access point (AP). The at least one routing preference is subscriber-specific and configurable by the subscriber linked to the mobile device, whereas the presence condition reveals if the mobile device is attached to the confined-coverage AP and is automatically detected. A routing server acquires the at least one routing preference and the presence condition for the mobile device. Based on routing logic applied to the at least one routing preference and the presence information, the routing server directs the incoming communication to a set of wireline devices, a set of wireless devices, or a combination thereof.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09413836&OS=09413836&RS=09413836
owner: AT&T INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY I, L.P.
number: 09413836
owner_city: Atlanta
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100408
---
The subject application is related to co pending and commonly assigned U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 756 473 entitled PRESENCE BASED COMMUNICATION ROUTING SERVICE AND REGULATION OF SAME and filed on Apr. 8 2010. The entirety of the above referenced application is incorporated herein by reference.

The subject disclosure relates to wireless and wireline communications and more particularly to routing of communications amongst wireless and wireline devices based on subscriber preferences and presence information of a mobile device in a confined wireless environment.

Wireless communication offers an array of services that allow substantive personalization of mobile devices employed for telecommunication thus a significant segment of wireless service subscribers employ their mobile devices as primary point of contact with other parties even when the mobile devices operate indoors. Available wireline services such as digital television internet protocol IP television media on demand broadband internet access voice over internet protocol VoIP communications also can provide highly customized services and can satisfy the communication needs of the wireless service subscribers particularly within the confined environment in which the various devices that provide the wireline services are deployed. Even though a wireless subscriber has access to highly personalized service in both the wireless service domain and the wireline service domain a calling party to a wireless subscriber generally originates a communication without knowledge of communication mechanism preference e.g. wireless service or wireline service of the wireless subscriber. In addition the calling party typically does not know a current location of the wireless subscriber at home at the workplace in transit in a vehicle out of wireless service area etc. which can dictate election of a specific called device e.g. cellular telephone VoIP device associated with the wireless subscriber. As a result connectivity amongst the calling party and the wireless subscriber can suffer due to various usage pitfalls with the ensuing perceived quality of service degradation. For example the wireless subscriber may not be reached because the wireless subscriber was distanced from his mobile device when an important communication was directed to the mobile device thus the important communication can be directed to a voice mail inbox that is accessed at a time the communication has become irrelevant. As another example the wireless subscriber may not be reached because the calling party directed her call to a wireline telephone in the wireless subscriber s office while the wireless subscriber was outside the office.

While wireline networks can be integrated with network elements that provide wireless services in indoor and outdoor environments integration of wireless service domain and wireline service domain within indoor environments has been directed primarily to provision of certain control functions of specific devices and telecommunication enhancement and continuity e.g. call session preservation during handover from macrocell coverage to femtocell coverage . Generally network integration has not been exploited to pursue robust connectivity that mitigates common usage pitfalls amongst other wireless service deficiencies that can lead to low perceived quality of service and related subscriber attrition.

The following presents a simplified summary of the subject disclosure in order to provide a basic understanding of some aspects thereof. This summary is not an extensive overview of the various embodiments of the subject disclosure. It is intended to neither identify key or critical elements of the subject disclosure nor delineate any scope thereof. Its sole purpose is to present some concepts in a simplified form as a prelude to the more detailed description that is presented hereinafter.

One or more embodiments of the subject disclosure provide system s and method s that enable routing of an incoming communication e.g. a voice call a data call to wireless device s or wireline device s based in part on at least one routing preference and presence information of a mobile device in a confined wireless environment served by an access point. The spatial boundaries of the confined wireless environment are determined by the coverage range or radius of the access point and thus the confined wireless environment can correspond to a confined coverage area which can include indoor space outdoor space or a combination thereof. The at least one routing preference is specific to a subscriber who owns or leases and operates the mobile device and thus is a personalized routing preference. A routing server retrieves or receives or otherwise accesses the at least one routing preference and the presence information for the mobile device. Based on routing logic applied to the at least one routing preference and the presence information the routing server directs the incoming communication to a set of wireline devices a set of wireless devices or a combination thereof.

In an aspect a customization server manages e.g. retrieves receives generates modifies or commits a set of routing preferences linked to a subscriber that consumes personalized communication routing the routing preferences in the set are personalized routing preferences. In one or more embodiments a configuration component that is part of the customization server provides a configuration environment e.g. a graphical user interface a user interface . . . to collect data that defines at least in part a routing preference that is personalized or specific to a subscriber. An interface component can render the configuration environment to receive the data the interface component conveys the data to the customization component which can commit the data in routing preference storage or process e.g. decode modify the data prior to data commitment in the routing preference storage. The configuration component is remote to the customization component and communicates thereto via an interface that can include at least one of wired links wireless links or network functional elements. In alternative or additional embodiments the interface component and the customization component can be integrated in a subscriber device e.g. a mobile device . Collected data that defines a routing preference is delivered to the customization server for management of at least one routing preference.

In another aspect a client server architecture enables generation of presence information of the mobile device based in part on processing of attachment signaling exchanged with a confined coverage access point generation can include detection processing and reporting of a presence condition of the mobile device. The confined coverage AP provides wireless service to the confined wireless environment. Based on deployment e.g. installation configuration testing and acceptance the client server architecture can implement various procedures to ascertain a presence condition of the mobile device. The procedures include a network based procedures wherein a presence client component embodied in a network element executes at least part of the procedures b access network based procedures wherein the presence client component resides in a confined coverage access point and executes at least part of procedures and c mobile device procedures wherein the presence client component in the mobile device executes at least part of the procedures. For the various procedures a presence server in the telecommunication network platform of a wireless service provider supplies e.g. produces and stores one or more presence condition records based on attachment notification s and related location data such records can be retained in a memory and reveal whether a mobile device is attached to a femtocell access point or not.

Aspects features or advantages of the subject disclosure are network and radio technology agnostic and can be exploited in substantially any network and through most any or any wireless communication technology. For example Wi Fi wireless fidelity Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX IS 95 Enhanced General Packet Radio Service Enhanced GPRS Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE Third Generation Partnership Project 2 3GPP2 Ultra Mobile Broadband UMB 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS High Speed Packet Access HSPA High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA or LTE Advanced. Additionally substantially all or all aspects of the subject disclosure can include legacy telecommunication technologies.

While various aspects features or advantages of the subject disclosure are illustrated in reference to femtocell femto access point s such aspects and features also can be exploited in other types of confined coverage access points e.g. home based access point s enterprise based access point s that provide wireless coverage to a confined wireless environment through substantially any or any disparate telecommunication technologies such as but not limited to Wi Fi or picocell telecommunication.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the subject disclosure then comprises the features hereinafter fully described. The following description and the annexed drawings set forth in detail certain illustrative aspects of one or more embodiments of the disclosure. However these aspects are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which the principles of the subject disclosure may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the subject disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description of various example embodiments of the subject disclosure when considered in conjunction with the drawings.

The subject disclosure is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the present disclosure. It may be evident however that the present innovation may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the present disclosure.

As employed in this specification and annexed drawings the terms component system platform interface node driver coder decoder layer and the like are intended to refer to a computer related entity or an entity related to an operational apparatus with one or more specific functionalities wherein the such entities can be either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. One or more of such entities are also referred to herein as functional elements. As an example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor a memory a code object an executable code instruction a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a server and the server can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers. In addition these components can execute from various computer readable media having various data structures or code instructions stored thereon. The components may communicate via local and or remote processes such as in accordance with a signal having one or more data packets e.g. data from one component interacting with another component in a local system distributed system and or across a network such as the Internet with other systems via the signal . As another example a component can be an apparatus with specific functionality provided by mechanical parts operated by electric or electronic circuitry which is operated by a software or a firmware application executed by a processor wherein the processor can be internal or external to the apparatus and executes at least a part of the software or firmware application. As yet another example a component can be an apparatus that provides specific functionality through electronic components without mechanical parts the electronic components can include a processor therein to execute software or firmware that provides at least in part the functionality of the electronic components. As further yet another example interface s can include input output I O components as well as associated processor application or Application Programming Interface API components. While the foregoing examples are directed to aspects of a component the exemplified aspects or features also apply to a system platform interface node driver coder decoder layer and the like.

In addition the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or. That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. Moreover articles a and an as used in the subject specification and annexed drawings should generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Moreover terms like user equipment mobile station mobile subscriber station subscriber equipment access terminal terminal handset and similar terminology refer to a wireless device utilized by a subscriber or user of a wireless communication service to receive or convey data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any data stream or signaling stream. The foregoing terms are utilized interchangeably in the subject specification and related drawings. Likewise the terms access point AP base station Node B evolved Node B eNode B home Node B HNB or home access point HAP which include femtocell access point picocell access point Wi Fi base station . . . and the like are utilized interchangeably in the subject application and refer to a wireless network component or apparatus that at least delivers and receives data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any or any data stream or signaling stream. Sources or recipients of such data control voice video sound gaming or substantially any or any data stream or signaling stream can be at least a set of network components such as but not limited to user equipment customer premises equipment or network servers controllers gateways or management components. Data and signaling streams can be packetized or frame based flows. It is noted that context in the subject specification generally distinguishes amongst a base station that provides or is intended to provide primarily outdoor wireless coverage and a facility based access point e.g. femtocell AP that provides or is intended to provide primarily indoor wireless coverage or outdoor wireless coverage within a confined range. Explicit distinction between indoor serving AP and outdoor serving base station is made when context may be insufficient to distinguish the utilized terms.

Furthermore the terms user subscriber customer consumer and the like are employed interchangeably throughout the subject specification unless context warrants particular distinction s among the terms. It should be appreciated that such terms can refer to human agent s or automated component s supported through artificial intelligence e.g. a capacity to make inference based on complex mathematical formalisms which can provide simulated vision sound recognition and so forth.

Further yet the term set as employed herein excludes the empty set. Thus a set in the subject disclosure includes one or more elements or entities. As an illustration a set of devices includes one or more devices a set of access points includes K access points with K a natural number greater than or equal to unity a set of attributes spans one or more attributes etc.

As described in detail below the subject disclosure provides system s and method s that enable routing of an incoming communication or incoming call to wireless device s or wireline device s based in part on at least one routing preference and presence information of a mobile device in a confined wireless environment served by a confined coverage access point. The at least one routing preference is specific to a subscriber who owns or leases and operates the mobile device and thus the at least one routing preference is personalized to the subscriber. A routing server retrieves or receives or otherwise accesses the at least one routing preference and the presence information for the mobile device. In an aspect the routing server is functionally coupled to or integrated at least in part with one or more functional elements of a telecommunication network platform that enable standard call processing. Based on routing logic applied to the at least one routing preference and the presence information the routing server directs the incoming communication to a set of wireline devices a set of wireless devices or a combination thereof.

Calls referred to and described in the subject disclosure e.g. incoming calls or call sessions include voice communications and data communications such as multimedia communications video call text message audio communication data communication etc. In addition the various devices referred to and described herein include any communication devices such as cellphones wireline telephones personal computers portable computers e.g. netbooks or laptops personal digital assistants PDAs Moving Picture Experts Group MPEG 1 Audio Layer 3 MP3 players set top boxes television sets TVs stereo players radio tuners satellite signal based or conventional gaming boxes set top or portable digital video recorders DVRs or the like.

Features or aspects described in the subject disclosure can rely at least in part on delivery or reception of directive s indication s request s or the like and information or payload data e.g. content s associated therewith. Directive s can be embodied in multi bit words e.g. P bit words with P a positive integer and coded to specifically convey a request to a particular functional element e.g. a femtocell AP in order to execute one or more specific operation. Information or payload data within signaling and request s or indication s conveyed therein can be embodied for example in one or more reserved bits in a packet header a light payload e.g. of the order of 1 byte data packet a predetermined multi bit word conveyed in a control channel a lightweight file e.g. a cookie an email communication an instant message or the like. In addition directive s request s indication s or the like as described herein can be delivered in accordance with various communication protocols. As an example the various protocols can include at least one of file transfer protocol FTP secure shell FTP SFTP FTP over secure socket layer FTPS short message service SMS protocol multimedia messaging service MMS protocol unstructured supplementary service data USSD standard simple network management protocol SNMP lightweight directory access protocol LDAP session initiation protocol SIP SIP for Instant Messaging and Presence Leveraging Extensions SIMPLE Open Mobile Alliance OMA device management DM protocol Technical Report 069 TR 069 protocol also referred to as Customer Premise Equipment CPE Wide Area Network WAN Management Protocol or CWMP or the like.

While aspects or features of the subject disclosure are illustrated in terms of applicability to femtocell access points such aspects and features are also applicable to and can be exploited in other radio access points such as Wi Fi APs picocell base station microcell base stations or the like which may provide greater radio access capacity.

Various illustrative scenarios are set forth herein to represent example operational environments that exploit one or more features of communication routing based on femtocell present intelligence as described herein and reveal the utility of such one or more features. The various illustrative scenarios are of course not exhaustive of the multiple operational environments in which the one or more features described in the subject disclosure can be exploited. In addition the various illustrative scenarios and related examples are intended to be non limiting without restricting the applicability or utility of the various embodiments of systems and methods described herein or any modification or variations thereof.

With respect to the drawings illustrates a schematic deployment of a macrocells and femtocells for wireless service coverage in accordance with aspects of the subject disclosure. In wireless environment two areas represent macrocell macro coverage each macrocell is served by a base station which includes a set of one or more antennas and various equipment or apparatuses that enable operation of the base station. It should be appreciated that macrocells are illustrated as hexagons however macrocells can adopt other geometries generally dictated by the deployment or floor plan geographic areas to be covered e.g. a metropolitan statistical area MSA or rural statistical area RSA and so on. Macro coverage is generally intended to serve mobile wireless devices like UE in primarily outdoor locations. An over the air wireless link provides such coverage the wireless link comprises a downlink DL and an uplink UL and utilizes a predetermined band of the radio frequency RF spectrum. As an example UE can be a Third Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS mobile phone. It is noted that a base station its associated electronics circuitry or components and a wireless link operated in accordance to the base station form a radio access network RAN . In addition base station communicates with macro network platform via backhaul link s through one or more components e.g. radio network controller s aggregator component s . . . that are part of access network s aspects and deployment of the one or more components are dictated by the underlying radio technology employed for telecommunication. In cellular wireless technologies e.g. 3rd Generation Partnership Project 3GPP Universal Mobile Telecommunication System UMTS Global System for Mobile Communication GSM macro network platform represents a core network. In an aspect macro network platform controls a set of base stations that serve either respective cells or a number of sectors within such cells. Macro network platform also communicates with other base stations not shown that serve other cells not shown . Backhaul link s can include a wired backbone link e.g. optical fiber backbone twisted pair line T1 E1 phone line a digital subscriber line DSL either synchronous or asynchronous an asymmetric ADSL or a coaxial cable . . . . Backhaul pipe s link disparate base stations .

In wireless environment within one or more macrocells a set of femtocells served by respective femtocell femto access points APs can be deployed. While in illustrative wireless environment three femtocells are deployed per macrocell aspects of the subject innovation are geared to femtocell deployments with substantive femto AP density e.g. 10 10femto APs per base stations . A femtocell typically covers an area that includes confined area which is determined at least in part by transmission power allocated to femto AP path loss shadowing and so forth. While coverage area associated with femtocell and confined area typically coincide it should be appreciated that in certain deployment scenarios confined coverage area can include an outdoor portion e.g. a parking lot a patio deck a recreation area such as a swimming pool and nearby space while area spans an enclosed living space or residence space. The coverage area associated with femtocell typically is spanned by a coverage radius or coverage range that ranges from 20 to 100 meters. The confined coverage area can encompass a setting that can span about 5000 sq. ft. and can include a residential dwelling a business space an entertainment area a worship area an educational facility a wellness area a hospital etc. and access to wireless service typically is regulated. In addition or in the alternative instead of being stationary the confined coverage area can be mobile for example it can be part of a vehicle a car an elevator an aircraft a vessel etc. . It should be noted that the confined coverage area is substantially smaller e.g. 1 3 orders of magnitude smaller than a macrocell .

In the subject disclosure a confined coverage area such as confined coverage area embodies a confined wireless environment which as indicated supra can include indoor space outdoor space or a combination thereof. In addition femtocell AP e.g. or any other type of access point e.g. Wi Fi AP picocell AP that serves the confined coverage area e.g. is referred to as confined coverage AP to denote that such an AP provides wireless service coverage to a confined wireless environment. Moreover a confined coverage AP transmits electromagnetic radiation e.g. radiates at lower power than a base station intended for outdoor coverage and that serves a macrocell. In an aspect an AP e.g. femtocell AP picocell Wi Fi AP that serves the confined coverage area e.g. can be deployed within the indoor space e.g. within a building or structure that the AP serves outdoor space that is part of the confined coverage area e.g. confined coverage area also is served by the AP. In yet another aspect an AP that covers the confined coverage area e.g. can be deployed in the outdoor space that the AP serves in certain deployments the AP can be mounted on or attached to non residential structure present in the outdoor space that is part of the confined area. A confined coverage area e.g. confined coverage area referred to in the subject disclosure is owned or leased by the owner or lessee of the AP that serves the confined coverage area where the AP is deployed as part of structure mobile or stationary within the confined coverage area.

A femto AP typically serves a few for example 1 5 wireless devices e.g. subscriber station within confined coverage area via a wireless link which encompasses a downlink DL and an uplink UL . A femto network platform can control such service in addition to mobility handover from macro to femto handover and vice versa and registration and provisioning of femto APs. Control or management is facilitated by backhaul link s that connect deployed femto APs with femto network platform through one or more components of access network s . The one or more components can include a network interface device NID a gateway node a digital subscriber line DSL access multiplexer DSLAM or the like. In addition the one or more components of access network s can be functionally coupled to an access aggregator node which can be embodied in a broadband remote access server B RAS such aggregator node generally is functionally coupled to a femtocell gateway node not shown deployed e.g. installed configured and active within femto network platform . Backhaul pipe s are substantially the same as backhaul link s . In UMTS based radio technology backhaul link is embodied at least in part in Iuh interface.

In an aspect of the subject innovation part of the control effected by femto AP is based on measurements of radio link conditions and other performance metrics. Femto network platform also includes components e.g. nodes gateways and interfaces that facilitates packet switched PS e.g. internet protocol IP traffic and signaling generation for networked telecommunication. It should be appreciated that femto network platform can be femto AP can integrate seamlessly with substantially any packet switched PS based and circuit switched CS based network such as macro network platform . Thus operation with a wireless device such as is substantially straightforward and seamless when handover from femto to macro or vice versa takes place. As an example femto AP can integrate into an existing 3GPP Core Network via conventional interfaces or reference links such as Iu CS Iu PS Gi or Gn. In addition femto AP can serve a mobile device that operates in accordance with 3GPP radio technology ies without dedicated functionality such as Wi Fi transceivers.

It is to be noted that substantially all voice or data active sessions associated with subscribers within femtocell wireless coverage e.g. area are terminated once the femto AP is shut down in case of data sessions data can be recovered at least in part through a buffer e.g. a memory associated with a femto gateway at the femto network platform. Coverage of a suspended or hotlined subscriber station or associated account can be blocked over the air interface. However if a suspended or hotlined customer who owns a femto AP is in Hotline Suspend status there is no substantive impact to the customers covered through the subject femto AP . In another aspect femto AP can exploit high speed downlink packet access either via an interface with macro network platform or through femto network platform in order to accomplish substantive bitrates.

In addition in yet another aspect femto AP has cell identifier s e.g. in UMTS based radio technology a LAC location area code or a RAC routing area code that is different from the underlying macro network. It should be appreciated that in macro networks cell identifiers IDs such as LAC and RAC are reused over several base stations or Node Bs and large areas so location information or intelligence accuracy and attachment procedure s e.g. LAU or RAU frequency are relatively low. It should be noted that based at least in part on radio technology deployment for macro networks cell ID reuse granularity may differ wherein radio technologies with distributed processing and more signaling capacity may afford more granular cell ID e.g. LAC and RAC assignments.

Femto LAC and RAC are used to identify subscriber station location for a variety of reasons most notably to direct incoming voice and data traffic to appropriate paging transmitters and emergency calls as well. As a subscriber station e.g. UE that exploits macro coverage e.g. cell enters femto coverage e.g. area the subscriber station e.g. UE attempts to attach to the femto AP through transmission and reception of attachment signaling. The signaling is effected via DL UL in an aspect of the subject innovation the attachment signaling can include a Location Area Update LAU and or Routing Area Update RAU . As an example of attachment procedure and mechanism s associated therewith UMTS handsets monitor network pilots e.g. generated through a femtocell or femtocell AP while in the idle mode each pilot includes LAC and or RAC. As a subscriber station moves between pilots e.g. moves within a macro sector and reaches vicinity of a femtocell the subscriber station probes for a change in LAC or RAC. When a change in LAC or RAC is detected the subscriber station performs LAU and or RAU so mobile network s becomes aware of subscriber station location in order to properly route incoming call pages. Attachment attempts are thus a part of procedures to ensure mobility so voice calls and data sessions can be initiated even after a macro to femto transition or vice versa.

It is to be noted that UE can be employed seamlessly after either of the foregoing transitions. In addition femto networks typically are designed to serve stationary or slow moving traffic with reduced signaling loads compared to macro networks. A service provider network e.g. an entity that commercializes deploys or utilizes femto access point and macro base stations is therefore inclined to minimize unnecessary LAU RAU signaling activity at substantially any opportunity to do so and through substantially any available means. It is to be noted that substantially any mitigation of unnecessary attachment signaling control is advantageous for femtocell or femtocell AP operation. Conversely if not successful UE is generally commanded through a variety of communication means to select another LAC RAC or enter emergency calls only mode. It is to be appreciated that this attempt and handling process can occupy significant UE battery and femto AP capacity and signaling resources e.g. communication of pilot sequences as well.

When an attachment attempt is successful UE is allowed on femtocell and incoming voice and data traffic are paged and routed to the subscriber through the femto AP . To facilitate voice and data routing and control signaling as well successful attachment can be recorded in a memory register e.g. a Visited Location Register VLR or substantially any data structure stored in a network memory. It is to be noted also that packet communication e.g. voice and data traffic and signaling typically paged routed through a backhaul broadband wired network backbone e.g. optical fiber backbone twisted pair line T1 E1 phone line s T3 phone line s digital level zero line DS0 digital subscriber line DSL either synchronous or asynchronous an asymmetric DSL a coaxial cable . . . . To this end femto AP is typically connected to the broadband backhaul network backbone via a broadband modem not shown . In an aspect of the subject innovation femto AP can display status indicators for power active broadband DSL connection gateway connection and generic or specific malfunction. In another aspect no landline is necessary for femto AP operation.

An incoming call is initially processed in accordance with standard call processing logic which in an aspect of the subject disclosure is configured e.g. adapted or modified to enable processing of the incoming call in accordance with customized call processing logic such enablement illustrated with a dashed arrow outgoing from block to block . The incoming call can be a wireless call or a wireline call. Customized call processing logic consumes information generated as part of presence intelligence collection logic and called party routing preferences collection logic . In the subject specification and annexed drawings routing preferences are also referred to as preferences. A subscriber that utilizes the customized communication routing service can configure at least one routing preference. The presence intelligence collection logic produces a femtocell presence condition associated with a location of a destination mobile device e.g. UE . The femtocell presence condition can be embodied in a record e.g. a logical variable or a field entry in table retained in a memory or memory element such as a database or a memory register. Based on at least one of a presence condition and a routing preference customized call processing logic determines appropriate call handling to apply and after applying such handling it provides signaling and related payload data to standard call processing logic such provision is illustrated in the subject drawing as an outgoing dashed arrow. Standard call processing logic consumes such signaling and related payload data and completes call session establishment resulting in setup call which can be consumed in a wireline device or a wireless device or any combination thereof.

The various aspects disclosed herein in connection with customized call processing do not affect adversely the operational features of wireless devices and wireline devices that establish a call session according to aspects described herein. A subscriber that consumes the customized routing service set forth in the subject disclosure continues to be able to utilize their wired and wireless devices to communicate without operation features thereof being degraded.

Implementation of the logic described in connection with diagram enables at least the communication scenario illustrated in . In diagram a confined area is afforded wireless service through femtocell AP also referred to herein and annexed drawings as femto AP . The femtocell AP is connected to an access network e.g. via network interface device NID . The confined area is illustrated as a residential dwelling such as a single family home or an apartment with four living areas and one exterior space e.g. a deck patio veranda garage or combination thereof covered by femtocell AP . It should be appreciated that while a single femto AP is illustrated features of the subject communication scenario are also realized in dwelling areas covered by a plurality of two or more femtocell access points. It should further be appreciated that the confined area can be embodied in other locations such as a business space e.g. a hotel an enterprise place of operation a factory an entertainment area which can include bars night clubs or the like a worship area such as a church or mosque an educational facility which can include open and semi open spaces as it may be the case in a college campus a wellness area e.g. a health club a hospital or nursing home etc. In addition femto AP or one femto AP in the plurality of one or more femtocell APs can supply wireless service to more or less than four indoor areas and one exterior space.

In an aspect of the subject first scenario mobile device can be located in living area within an enclosure e.g. a purse located in an upstairs bedroom or deposited in a piece of furniture e.g. dresser in the upstairs bedroom . A subscriber linked to the mobile device e.g. the mobile device s owner can roam throughout the residential dwelling without carrying mobile device . In particular the subscriber illustrated with a solid star can be at living area e.g. the kitchen of residential dwelling conducting a specific activity e.g. cooking with grandchildren or cooking and watching television when an incoming call directed to mobile device is effected. As an example incoming call can be a voice call placed by the subscriber s neighbor to alert the subscriber that the subscriber s dog is loose in the neighbor s backyard. In conventional communication scenarios that do not exploit customized call processing logic the subscriber misses the established call session . In contrast if customized call processing logic is configured in instances the subscriber is at the residential dwelling incoming call intended for mobile device can be automatically routed as a call session e.g. voice call to one or more devices wireless or wireline within residential dwelling e.g. devices or or a combination thereof. In particular call session can be established through wireline telephone placed in living area and thus the subscriber can answer the call session . Such communication behavior has at least the following advantages with respect to conventional communication scenarios i Improved service experience for the subscriber and related customer satisfaction with the ensuing enhanced service provider stickiness e.g. lessened churn reduction and ii increased connectivity and related service delivery.

In the foregoing communication scenario the instances in which the subscriber is within confined area can be asserted based at least on a presence condition extracted from data on attachment to femtocell AP . Likewise instances in which the subscriber is outside area of femtocell service coverage also can be asserted based at least on a presence condition gleaned from data on attachment to a macrocell base station not shown in . As described in greater detail below changes in presence conditions associated with mobility of mobile device outside femtocell service coverage can result in incoming calls intended to mobile device no longer being routed to one or more devices within the confined area .

In another aspect of the subject first communication scenario the subscriber can be in a semi open area e.g. separated from mobile device when incoming call e.g. voice call directed to mobile device is effected the subscriber represented by an open star in . In view that the subscriber is distanced from the mobile device in conventional communication scenarios that do not exploit customized call processing logic the subscriber typically misses the incoming call . Yet when customized call processing logic is enabled and active e.g. configured with a set of routing preferences and based on at least one routing preference and a presence record the incoming call can be routed as a call session to one or more devices such as mobile stations and that are attached to femtocell AP . The at least one preference can be configured e.g. generated conveyed or committed by the subscriber via at least one functional element e.g. a device or apparatus . Proximity of such mobile stations to the subscriber represented by open star and the subject customized routing prevent the subscriber from missing the incoming call and enable the subscriber to engage in the call session originating from incoming call . In an aspect the subject disclosure allows simultaneous or substantially simultaneous ringing of mobile device and mobile stations and . Specific ringtones can alert the subscriber and bearers of mobile stations and that the established call session is intended for the subscriber. As an illustration after entering confined area the subscriber can leave the mobile device in her purse in living space while bearers of mobile stations and who can be family members of the subscriber carry such mobile stations with them while inside the confined area . If the subscriber represented with an open star and the bearers of mobile stations and are located in exterior space and incoming call intended for mobile device is effected by an end user linked to the subscriber such as a friend of the subscriber a call session can be established with the mobile device and mobile stations and based on at least one of one or more customized routing preferences linked to the subscriber and presence record that reveals mobile device is within confined area . Bearers of mobile stations and can identify the end user and provide the subscriber with one of the mobile stations or so the subscriber can respond to the call session and thus not miss the incoming call.

In yet another aspect of the subject first scenario incoming call e.g. voice call can be a wireline call intended for a wireline device e.g. telephone within residential dwelling . Conventionally in communication scenarios that do not exploit customized call processing logic a subscriber misses the incoming call when the subscriber is outside residential dwelling and related femtocell service coverage area. In contrast in accordance with aspects of the subject innovation at a time customized call processing logic is configured such deficiency is mitigated or avoided if the subscriber is linked or associated to a mobile device e.g. or other one or more devices not shown with wireless capability that operate in close proximity of the subscriber. In particular in an instance the subscriber is outside residential dwelling and based on at least one routing preference the incoming call e.g. voice call intended for the wireline device e.g. telephone can be routed automatically e.g. without human intervention as a call session to the mobile device e.g. or the other one or more devices with wireless capability that operate in close proximity of the subscriber. In an aspect the at least one routing preference is associated with the subscriber the association can be a one to one relationship or a one to many relationship. In another aspect the one or more devices operating in proximity to the subscriber can include a wearable device with enabled wireless capability that is attached to the subscriber s garment or gear goggles helmet etc. . In diagram a dashed star within a coverage cell represents the subscriber being outside area of femtocell coverage provide by femtocell AP and associated with dwelling . As an illustration such customized routing functionality can allow an end user to communicate with the subscriber while unbeknownst to the end user the subscriber is outside the residential dwelling e.g. shopping in grocery store and despite the end user being memory challenged and attempting to communicate through the subscriber s home phone number which the end user has used for the past several e.g. 30 years because the end user s fails to remember subscriber s mobile device number. It should be appreciated that for the end user e.g. the subscriber s aging mother with a perceived imperative need to contact the subscriber as it may be the case when the end user is worried about results of her most recent doctor visit enhanced connectivity can provide an increased perceived quality of service related to the telecommunication service provider.

The functionality afforded by implementation of customized call processing logic in the foregoing scenario results in at least the following advantages with respect to conventional communication scenarios i Improved service experience for the subscriber and related customer satisfaction with the ensuing enhanced service provider commercial stickiness e.g. lessened chum reduction and ii increased connectivity and related service delivery.

To provide customized communication routing invocation the at least one component can execute one or more methods for implementing personalized handling of an incoming call wherein the one or more methods can be embodied in at least one set of code instructions retained in a memory in the standard call processing platform s . In an embodiment the one or more methods can be integrated in mechanisms conventionally employed to effect add on communication services in order to modify such mechanisms and afford the one or more features and advantages of the subject disclosure. For example the one or more methods when implemented e.g. executed by at least a processor can exploit Serving Call Session Control Function S CSCF to apply the IMS filter rule that can initiate customized communication routing.

Customized routing server receives the indication to effect customized communication routing. In response the customized routing server retrieves or otherwise accesses a at least one routing preference for customized communication routing and b femtocell presence information e.g. a presence condition record of a mobile device associated with the incoming call . The femtocell presence information establishes if a mobile device of a subscriber that consumes the customized communication routing service is inside a confined area of femtocell coverage service or outside the confined area. In an aspect in an instance the mobile device is inside the confined area the presence condition record can adopt an At Home value or In Premises value whereas in other instances in which the mobile device is outside the confined area the presence condition record can adopt a Not At Home value or Not In Premises value. Based on the at least one routing preference for customized communication routing and the femtocell presence information the customized routing server effects personalized communication routing and establishes in part call session . In the illustrated embodiment of customized routing server in example system collection component can retrieve or otherwise access the at least one routing preference from routing preference s storage . Collection component also can extract or otherwise access the presence condition record from presence intelligence storage also referred to as presence intelligence in the subject disclosure. In addition in the illustrated embodiment customized server includes a routing component that directs the incoming communication to one or more devices e.g. device s to establish in part setup call session based in part on the at least one routing preference and the presence condition record. Device s can include mobile devices e.g. cellular telephone cellphone laptop computer with wireless connectivity card netbook DVR . . . and wireline devices e.g. POTS telephone home manager IP based telephone . . . that utilize wireless network resources to telecommunicate voice or data.

Depending in part on the at least one routing preference incoming communication e.g. a wireless call or a wireline call can be routed to a wireless device a wireline device or any combination thereof represented in example system by device s . In an example in a scenario the incoming communication is intended to a mobile device e.g. a wireless call if the presence condition record has a value of At Home and if the at least one routing preference conveys a subscriber associated with the mobile device desires to receive the wireless call on both the mobile device and one or more wireless home devices and one or more wireline home devices then the incoming call e.g. the wireless call is routed to at least one of a wireline number and a wireless number e.g. a cellphone number . In another example in a scenario the incoming communication is intended to a wireline home telephone e.g. a wireline call if the presence condition record has a value of Not At Home and if the at least one routing preference conveys a subscriber associated with the wireline home telephone desires to receive the wireline call on a subscriber mobile device when the subscriber is not at home and the subscriber does not desire their wireline calls to provide alerting when they are not at home then the wireline call is routed to the subscriber mobile device number and not the subscriber s wireline home telephone number.

Presence server determines and maintains generates modifies stores etc. dynamic femtocell presence information which presence server can store in presence intelligence storage within memory . In an aspect based on data the presence server automatically determines the femtocell presence information based in part on whether or not the mobile device is registered or attached to a femtocell AP that supplies wireless service to the confined area. To provide such functionality the presence server can execute a first set of procedures which can be embodied in one or more sets of code instructions retained in a machine readable or computer readable storage medium. Presence server can be part of a telecommunication network platform e.g. macro network platform or femto network platform or a backend service platform thereof. In an embodiment the presence server can be an application server deployed external to other components of the telecommunication network platform or the backend service platform conventional standardized or proprietary interfaces can be utilized to functionally connect e.g. communicatively couple presence server to the other components. In another embodiment the presence server can be integrated within an existing node in the telecommunication network platform or the backend service platform. For example the existing network node can be a CAMEL serving node in the circuit switched CS domain of the telecommunication network platform a femtocell gateway node or an internet protocol IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS Telephony Application Server TAS .

Data can be generated through execution of a second set of procedures which determine the scope e.g. data domain or data structure of the data various components within at least one of a telecommunication network platform e.g. CN in UMTS based technologies an access network AN or a group of end user devices can execute the second set of procedures. The second set of procedures also can be embodied in one or more sets of code instructions retained in a machine readable or computer readable storage medium. The first set of procedures and the second set of procedures form a group of presence procedures.

The second set of procedures can be categorized based on the component s that can execute such procedures Network based procedure s access network based procedure s and subscriber device based procedure s . Network based procedure s affects primarily one or more components in a telecommunication network platform AN based procedure s affects mainly a femtocell AP while subscriber device based procedure s particularly impacts at least one user device e.g. a mobile device linked to a subscriber that has customized routing service as described herein .

Network based procedure s . The second set of procedures can be retained in a memory within the telecommunication network platform administered by a telecommunication carrier or external network s functionally coupled thereto. A procedure in this category is determined in part by the underlying operational features of the telecommunication network platform or the external network s e.g. CS network platform e.g. 2G 2.5G networks or PS network platform e.g. 3G 3.5G or 4G networks . 1 A CS based procedure can exploit Signaling System 7 SS7 signaling and related payload data. In an aspect the CS based procedure can include a group of code instructions retained in memory e.g. memory that can be part of CAMEL. Presence server can execute the group of code instructions in order to exploit the CAMEL functionality that discloses mobility management events and related data to a Service Control Function SCF component and generate e.g. determine and maintain femtocell presence information. In an aspect a wireless subscriber can be provisioned with CAMEL service s particularly with relevant CAMEL subscription information to support mobility management events. Example mobility management events that presence server can consume to generate a presence condition record associated with femtocell presence information include the following. Location update within a Visited Location Register VLR service area location update to a disparate VLR service area IMSI attach mobile device initiated IMSI detach or explicit detach e.g. the mobile device is powered off or network initiated IMSI detach or implicit detach. The foregoing location update events occur in response to movement of a mobile device between macrocell coverage area e.g. and femtocell coverage area e.g. whereas IMSI attach occurs if a mobile device is powered on and explicit detach occurs if the mobile device is turned off. At least one of the example mobility events can trigger the CAMEL functionality that conveys data on the at least one of the example mobility events to the SCF component based on this conveyance of data the SCF component accesses femtocell presence information which can be delivered to the presence server . Further to femtocell presence information the SCF component can access or otherwise acquire information related to routing incoming calls e.g. . An incoming call destined to a mobile telephone number TN provisioned with customized communication routing can invoke the CAMEL service s . Service logic which can be part of routing logic can be exploited by the SCF component to determine how to route a call based at least on presence condition record s . It should be noted that in certain embodiments when SCF component is invoked and routing information is to be returned or exchanged the SCF component returns a single destination address or number in response to the invocation however in such embodiments various destination addresses can be supplied sequentially.

In addition or in the alternative the group of code instructions that are part of the CS procedure can be retained in VLR. As part of the CS procedure the VLR can receive a Location Update message when e.g. at a time or after a time a mobile device of a subscriber that is provisioned customized routing service moves from macrocell coverage to femtocell coverage or from femtocell coverage to macrocell coverage. The VLR can analyze Serving Area Information SAI and determined of the mobile device is attached to a femtocell AP owned or leased by the subscriber or a third party and based on the analysis notify the presence server that the mobile device is in At Home or In Premises presence condition or Not At Home or Not In Premises presence condition. In the alternative or in addition the VLR can send the SAI to presence server which can analyze the information to determine if the presence condition of the mobile device either At Home or Not At Home .

 2 A PS based procedure when executed by a functional element can exploit at least one or more components of a PS domain in the telecommunication network for example the one or more components can be part of an IMS core network. As part of the PS based procedure presence server can receive an indication to supply femtocell presence information in response to an incoming call attempt to a mobile device. The incoming call attempt is received by the one or more components which in response apply a filter criterion or filter rule to convey the indication in an aspect the filter criterion can be provisioned in a Home Subscriber Server within the PS domain. The indication can be delivered as part of data . As discussed supra to supply femtocell presence information the presence server can generate or update a presence condition record and deliver it.

An advantage of PS based procedure s is that access to femtocell presence information can be integrated with various PS based e.g. IP based applications that support a myriad of interfaces such as APIs and services including web based services. Another advantage of PS based procedure s is integration of one or more aspects of SS7 interfaces and related functionality for example presence server can exploit SS7 signaling are related payload data to produce femtocell presence information and supply such information as part of the PS based procedure s .

AN based procedure s . The second set of procedures can be retained within a femtocell AP which can be owned or leased by the subscriber or a third party 3P such as a relative friend colleague vendor e.g. a dentist or employer of the subscriber. Data includes femtocell presence information of the mobile device associated with a subscriber that consumes customized routing service. A femtocell AP conveys the femtocell presence information to presence server through signaling delivered in part over a backhaul network e.g. an IP broadband backhaul network such as backhaul link s and at least one component of access network s . In an aspect a client component in the femtocell AP generates a presence information record at a time or a predetermined period after the time a mobile device registers on the femtocell AP or deregisters from the femtocell AP. For instance when e.g. at an instant or after the instant the mobile device registers on the femtocell AP as part of the registration procedure and in response to registration the client component generates a presence condition record with a value of At Home for the mobile device and delivers a notification message within data to the presence server to convey the presence condition record. When the mobile device de registers from the femtocell AP in response to de registration the client component updates the presence condition record for the mobile device or generates a new presence condition record for the mobile device to reflect a condition value of Not At Home and delivers a notification message to the presence server to disclose the updated presence condition record or the new presence condition record. It should be appreciated that the response s of the client component to registration de registration of the mobile device with the femtocell AP can be enabled by execution of the second set of procedures. At least a portion of the second set of procedures can modify conventional registration procedures to accomplish the described aspects of the subject disclosure.

In one or more embodiments the client component can be a Session Initiation Protocol SIP based client running on the femtocell AP and can alert e.g. deliver signaling to a SIP based AS in an IMS core network. The client component in the femtocell AP can execute the second set of procedures. In the alternative at least one processor in the femtocell AP can execute the second set of procedures by executing the client component.

The subject AN based procedure s can be advantageous in communication scenarios in which wireless devices that are not dual transfer mode DTM capable are expected to operate in the confined area s covered by femtocell wireless service. In such scenarios femtocell presence information and associated signaling to a presence server e.g. is not affected by the precedence of voice calls over data sessions in wireless devices that are not DTM capable.

Subscriber device based procedure s . The second set of procedures can be retained within a mobile device of a subscriber that consumes the customized communication routing service described herein. The subject procedure s are a client based approach. A client component that resides in the mobile device can execute at least a portion of the second set of procedures in response to detection of attachment to a femtocell AP owned or leased by the subscriber or a third party or detection of attachment to a macrocell base station. As a result the client component can produce e.g. generate or update a presence condition record and deliver a notification message to the presence server to supply the presence condition record. The presence condition record can adopt a value of At Home if attachment to the femtocell AP is detected whereas detection of attachment to the macrocell base station leads to a Not At Home value for the presence condition record. The client component can deliver the notification message as part of data through various protocols or mechanisms e.g. SIP signaling or H.323 signaling in PS domain short message service SMS or conventional SS7 signaling in GSM based or UMTS based radio technology peer to peer protocol such as Extensible Markup Language XML Document Management Server XDMS protocol.

In one or more embodiments the client component can be SIP client executing on the mobile device via at least one processor to enable interaction of the mobile device with IMS operational environment or platform over an IP access network e.g. AN s . In an aspect the client component can perform a SIP registration over a femtocell AP data channel when e.g. at a time it detects that the mobile device is registered with the femtocell AP. Such registration attempt and related attachment signaling is relayed to presence server which can be embodied in an IMS AS. In an additional or alternative embodiment the client component can communicate with the presence server in accordance with other packet based e.g. IP protocol or signaling mechanism to convey femtocell presence information.

Memory can be embodied in at least one of a Home Location Register HLR or a Home Subscriber Server HSS or a data repository functionally coupled to a femtocell gateway node in a femtocell network platform e.g. . Memory also can be embodied in a memory integrated or operationally coupled to a server in an external network functionally connected to a macro network platform a Core Network in UMTS based radio technology . In an example memory can be functionally connected to an AS the server in an IMS the external network . In another example memory can be functionally connected to a broadband remote access server B RAS the server and the internet the external network in this example memory can be either a conventional data repository or a cloud web based file server. In addition in an embodiment memory can be part of a memory platform in a backend service infrastructure such as a consolidated data repository that centralizes data of one or more network platforms that provide wireline or wireless service s . The data can be operational data and administrative data.

In one or more additional or alternative embodiments presence intelligence storage can be part of a customer premises equipment CPE e.g. a femtocell AP a component that aggregates one or more femtocell APs a switch or router or a private branch exchange PBX apparatus or b a user device e.g. a mobile device a personal computer or other home networking component. Compared to storage in a memory deployed within a telecommunication network platform e.g. storage of a presence condition record in a memory in accordance with aspects a and b results in increased flexibility and accessibility to the presence condition record by an end user or user device. The increased flexibility and accessibility is provided at the expense of call session processing efficiency in view of increased signaling that might be incurred in order to access data e.g. the routing preference remote to the telecommunication network platform. Specific operational scenarios can afford such tradeoff.

Routing logic storage also referred to as routing logic in the subject disclosure can include default logic and exception handling logic wherein logic is a set of one or more rules. For a subscriber that consumes customized communication routing service example default logic can comprise the following rules. 1 Route all incoming calls to a mobile device of the subscriber and a set of wireline devices linked to a physical address of the subscriber if the presence condition for the mobile device is At Home . 2 Route an incoming call intended for a mobile device of the subscriber and an incoming call intended for a wireline device linked to the physical address of the subscriber to the mobile device and not the wireline device if presence condition for the mobile device is Not At Home. It should be appreciated that the foregoing rules are illustrative and additional or alternative rules can compose the default logic. In particular default logic can route an incoming call to one or more wireless devices e.g. and registered on a femto AP e.g. femto AP utilized as a reference for presence intelligence associated with a mobile device e.g. of the subscriber. To implement such default logic routing component can convey a directive to collection component to extract one or more presence condition records for the one or more wireless devices and based on the one or more presence condition records direct the incoming call to the one or more wireless devices. Routing component can identify the one or more wireless device via at least one access control list that regulates access to the femto AP e.g. the ACL can be retained in a network based memory such as a subscriber database in HSS. It is noted that in one or more embodiments routing of an incoming call to a set of mobile devices registered on a femtocell AP that establish presence condition can be effected only if the presence condition of the mobile device is in At Home or In Premises or other suitable alphanumeric value . In addition for the subscriber exception handling logic can route an incoming call in anomalous scenarios For example for the subscriber becomes hotlined for lack of service payment a customized routing service deactivation notice e.g. a SMS communication or an automated voice recording can be delivered to a mobile device utilized by the subscriber to convey the service anomaly.

In addition routing logic storage can include schedules or profiles that regulate application of at least one routing preference. For instance for a specific mobile device such as a business cellular phone customized communication routing is inactive during weekends e.g. from 8 00 p on Friday until 5 00 a on following Monday . Routing logic storage also can include discriminator s that establish level of personalization of customized routing e.g. customization for residential subscribers can be different from that for enterprise or business subscribers. At least one discriminator can be employed for security or safety As an example the at least one discriminator can trigger collection of data related to a routed incoming call traffic called numbers calling numbers etc. as part of Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act CALEA employer monitoring or parental control. As another example the at least one discriminator can override a routing preference that includes a specific group of one or more devices wireless or otherwise.

Routing logic storage also can include criteria to manipulate an incoming communication. For example the criteria can dictate that the incoming communication is to be reformatted prior to delivery and select a specific device for certain types of communication A digital picture frame can be selected for MMS communication selection can be automatic or based on a ranking which can be configured by a subscriber that exploits the customized routing service.

Customization server manages e.g. creates modifies receives or delivers routing preferences of a subscriber that consumes customized communication routing service as described herein. The routing preferences enable in part the femtocell presence based routing or customized call processing and can be retained in memory . As illustrated as a separate functional element in one or more embodiments memory can be integrated in customization server . In an aspect customization server can be a dedicated server or it can be integrated in one or more servers that provide other functionality. In an aspect the customization server can be integrated in a server that is part of a macrocell network platform or a femtocell network platform . In another aspect the customization server can be integrated in a server that is part of an external network functionally coupled to at least one of such network platforms for instance the external network can be an IP Multimedia Subsystem IMS and the server can be embodied in an Application Server AS . In addition customization server can include a database management component not shown that administers at least in part data retained in memory .

Memory and memory have similar aspects and in one or more embodiments such memories can be integrated. Memory can be embodied in at least one of a Home Location Register HLR or a Home Subscriber Server HSS . In addition memory can be embodied in a data repository functionally coupled to a femtocell gateway node in a femtocell network platform e.g. . Memory also can be embodied in a memory integrated or operationally coupled to a server in an external network functionally connected to a macro network platform a Core Network in UMTS based radio technology . As an example memory can be functionally connected to an AS the server in an IMS the external network . As another example memory can be functionally connected to a broadband remote access server B RAS the server and the internet the external network in this example memory can be a conventional data repository or a cloud web based file server. In addition in an embodiment memory can be part of a memory platform in a backend service infrastructure such as a consolidated data repository that centralizes data of one or more network platforms that provide wireline or wireless service s . The data can be operational data and administrative data and can be retained as part of one or more customer profiles e.g. a Common Customer Profile CPP for access to at least one service.

In one or more additional alternative embodiments routing preference s storage within memory can be part of i customer premises equipment e.g. a femtocell AP a component that aggregates one or more femtocell APs a switch or router or a private branch exchange PBX or ii a user device e.g. a mobile device a personal computer or other home networking component. Compared to storage of a set of routing preferences in a memory deployed within a telecommunication network platform e.g. it should be appreciated that storage of a routing preference in a memory in accordance with aspects i and ii results in increased flexibility and accessibility to the routing preference by an end user or user device. The increased flexibility and accessibility is provided at the expense of call session processing efficiency in view of increased signaling that might be incurred in order to access data e.g. the routing preference remote to the telecommunication network platform. Such tradeoff can be afforded in specific operational scenarios.

In scenarios in which routing preference s storage is distributed across multiple platforms or devices or a combination thereof one or more functional elements can be deployed e.g. configured installed tested and accepted to ensure service integration integrity. In one or more embodiments an integrity component not shown can be included in example system to resolve such conflicts conflict resolution and improved telecommunication performance can offset additional complexity associated with deployment of the integrity component. Deployment of such functional elements e.g. components servers can increase operational complexity of example system or any other system s described herein for customized communication routing but advantages associated with mitigation or eradication of service integration concerns such as problems possibly conflicting call forwarding unconditional settings can realize one or more operational efficiencies for a service provider or a subscriber.

Customization server can receive or retrieve or otherwise acquire data to commit at least one routing preference in routing preference s storage . Data can include a set of preference parameters that define the at least one routing preference the set of preference parameters can be generated by at least one system not shown that collects input data from a subscriber via a subscriber device. In an embodiment the at least one system can be a user device mobile station PC etc. that executes an application software or firmware to configure the at least one routing preference. In another embodiment the at least one system can be a functional element such as a component or server deployed e.g. installed configured tested and accepted in a telecommunication network platform and that is communicatively coupled to a user device mobile station PC etc. the functional element executes an application software or firmware to configure the at least one routing preference. Data also can be supplied by a customer support network component as conveyed by a subscriber through personal interaction with a service provider representative e.g. over the phone or at a service center.

In one or more embodiments of example system one or more processors not shown configured to enable or that enable at least part of the functionality of the group of servers e.g. and and associated component s can be included in or functionally coupled to each server in the group of servers in the example system . To implement or provide at least part of the described functionality of at least a server in the group of servers the one or more processors can execute one or more sets of code instructions not shown stored in one or more of memory or memory or other memory accessible to the one or more processors. The one or more sets of code instructions can include program module s or software application s or firmware application s that when executed by the one or more processors not shown implement specific tasks which can be accomplished through at least one of the example methods described in the subject specification and that are associated at least in part with functionality of the at least one server in the group of servers in example system . In certain embodiments a server in the group of servers e.g. and can be embodied at least in part in one or more sets of code instructions stored in a memory e.g. or accessible to the one or more processors not shown when executed by the one or more processors the one or more sets of code instructions implement the server and its functionality.

In one or more embodiments of example system a server in the group of servers e.g. and in example system can include input output I O interface s not shown that enable at least in part networked communication. Additionally in example system either memory or memory or both of these memories can be a centralized element or a distributed element and each can include any memory element described in connection with example system . In addition memory and memory can be integrated even though in the illustrated embodiment such memories are presented as separate entities.

Presence client component also can notify presence server through interface of an updated presence condition record. In an aspect presence client component can notify of the updated presence condition record through one or more communication protocols proprietary or otherwise such as SIP XDMS XML Configuration Access Protocol XCAP Hypertext Transfer Protocol HTTP or the like. As described supra presence server can retain payload data e.g. data available in the notification within memory element in memory . In another aspect interface can be embodied in at least one of conventional link s e.g. a fiber optic link an Ethernet link a T1 E1 line . . . reference link s e.g. Gi Gn . . . or one or more components of an access network or a core network.

In an aspect presence client can be embodied in a software application or firmware application comprising one or more sets of code instructions retained in a memory e.g. memory that when executed by at least one processor not shown in provide at least in part the described functionality of presence client . In an aspect memory can be part of the mobile device that attaches detaches from the femtocell AP and the at least one processor can be a processor that provides functionality of such mobile device.

In an embodiment of example system interface component can be remote to configuration component which can be part of configuration server . In such embodiment interface component can be part of a user device that i supplies and consumes data and signaling and ii renders a configuration environment to define at least one routing preference in response to preference driver executing the software application or firmware application. In an aspect interface component can be a display interface that is part of the user device. The user device can be a mobile device e.g. cellphone associated with a subscriber that configures at least one routing preference for personalized routing as described herein a personal computer pseudo stationary or portable laptop notebook netbook etc. a PDA a television set top box for IP television IPTV or the like. In another aspect configuration component can be a web server that enables a configuration web portal when preference driver executes the software application or the firmware application retained in application storage the configuration environment rendered by the interface component is at least a portion of the web portal. In such an embodiment memory is the same or substantially the same as memory and memory element is substantially the same or the same as routing preference s storage . In addition interface can be embodied in at least one of conventional link s e.g. a fiber optic link an Ethernet link a T1 E1 line . . . reference link s e.g. Gi Gn . . . or one or more components of an access network or a telecommunication network platform e.g. core network .

In another embodiment of example system interface component configuration component memory and memory can be integrated in a single apparatus e.g. a user device. Interface can be at least one of a bus architecture or internal programming interfaces not shown retained in memory the bus architecture can include at least one of a system bus a memory bus an address bus or a message bus. In such an embodiment configuration component can deliver data e.g. data that includes the at least one preference parameter to customization server not shown in delivery can be effected in peer to peer modality in accordance with one or more communication protocols e.g. XDMS XCAP . . . . In addition routing preference storage can operate as a data cache to store the at least one preference parameter in accordance with a retention protocol not shown which can be stored in memory . The retention protocol can be configured statically or dynamically and includes a set of predetermined parameters e.g. an inactivity period priority ranking s . . . that dictate preservation or removal of data in memory element . In the subject embodiment interface component also can provide the functionality of a presence client component e.g. .

Processor s represent a set of one or more processors configured to enable or that enable at least part of the functionality of interface component and configuration component . To implement or provide at least part of the described functionality of interface component and configuration component processor s can execute one or more sets of code instructions not shown stored in one or more of memory or memory . The one or more sets of code instructions can include program modules or software applications or firmware applications that when executed by processor s implement specific tasks which can be accomplished through at least one of the example methods described in the subject specification and that are associated at least in part with functionality of example system . While illustrated as stand alone functional element s in certain embodiments of example system processor s can be distributed amongst interface component and configuration component to provide at least part of the described functionality thereof. Additionally in an alternative or additional embodiment interface component can reside at least in part within memory as one or more sets of code instructions that when executed by processor s implement each of such components and the described functionality thereof. Likewise in such alternative or additional embodiment configuration component or at least one component thereof also can reside within memory e.g. within application storage as one or more sets of code instructions that when executed by processor s carry out the described functionality of configuration component or the at least one component therein. Either memory or memory or both of these memories can be a centralized element or a distributed element and each can include any memory element described in connection with example system .

Example UI is directed to configuration of at least one routing preference for Not in Premises category of presence condition. Indicia illustrates a configured routing preference that establishes an incoming communication e.g. incoming call is routed to Mobile e.g. a subscriber s cellphone if intended to Mobile . In addition the configured routing preference establishes that the incoming communication is offloaded to device Aux. which can be an auxiliary wireline device. A soft button allows to include an additional routing preference associated with a set of mobile devices e.g. Mobile and Mobile . Indicia conveys additional routing preferences the direct an incoming communication e.g. incoming call to Mobile if the incoming call is intended to device Wireline or to device Wireline . In an aspect indicia illustrates rendition of content or information as a result of actuating soft button Add button to configure an additional routing preference in an aspect the actuating can be implemented via various gestures touch speech movement etc. . Indicia presents a set of wireline devices that can be selected as prospective destination addresses that result in routing of an incoming communication to wireless device Mobile .

With respect to example UI various routing preferences are illustrated for wireless device Mobile . Routing preferences establish that incoming communication s intended to Mobile are to be routed to Mobile and to Wireline e.g. home manager IP based telephone . Indicia illustrate a menu of optional devices allowed to be utilized in a routing preference the menu can be toggled on via actuation of soft button . It should be noted that the menu presents Mobile as an optional device such device can be a wireless device authorized to receive femtocell service through the femtocell AP that determines presence condition of the wireless device e.g. Mobile for which the example UI is employed to configure a routing preference. Identity of the wireless device Mobile can be extracted from an access control list associated with the femtocell AP that determines presence condition the identity can convey a number code or token for the wireless device and a tag the characterizes ownership e.g. owned by fried owned by employee owned by relative thereof. Characterization of ownership can guide at least in part configuration of a routing preference.

Example UI also enables generation of one or more routing preferences that direct an incoming communication e.g. a SMS message to all available wireline devices e.g. POTS home telephones home manager telephone . . . in case All Wireline option is selected in such option is unchecked. Routing preferences disclose that an incoming communication intended to Mobile Wireline or Wireline are routed to Mobile for instance a VoIP call session intended for PC can be directed to mobile device . Soft button can be actuated to render support information for at least one of configuration of a routing preference registration of a mobile device or wireline device to be included in menus of available devices or the like. In an aspect identity of a wireline device can be extracted through various mechanisms which can be implemented by a configuration component or a processor that enables at least in part the functionality of the configuration component 1 Device handshake. The configuration component that transmits a directive to render a configuration environment can deliver a request for identification data to one or more devices provisioned in a wireline network e.g. broadband network for packet based services with an associated physical address e.g. billing address that matches the physical address of a femto AP employed as reference for presence intelligence. In response an active wireline device can acknowledge the request and deliver the identification data which can be employed to populate a menu of available devices. 2 Identification data mining. The configuration component extracts identification data for a wireline device provisioned in the wireline network and that has a physical address that matches the physical address of the femto AP. It should be appreciated that in one or more embodiments actuation of soft button does not provide a set of pre populated fields but rather an empty form field into which data can be entered to identify a device wireless or otherwise to which a communication is intended to or to which the communication is to be routed to. In addition configuration of one or more routing preferences is specific to a subscriber that utilizes customized communication routing service data received by a device that renders one or more of the user interfaces described herein e.g. is provided by the subscriber and thus the one or more routing preferences are personalized routing preference s .

It should be appreciated that in mobile devices or wireline devices are identified with tags Mobile Mobile Wireline Wireline Wireline Wireline Wireline and Aux. Aux. and Aux. . Each of those tags can be one of various device identifiers codes or tokens that uniquely identify a device such as an international mobile subscriber identity IMSI temporary IMSI TIMSI a mobile subscriber integrated services digital network MSISDN an international mobile equipment identifier IMEI a mobile directory number MDN a mobile identification number MIN a Telecommunications Industry Association TIA electronic serial number ESN or a multi bit identification number like the mobile identity number MEID .

In the subject disclosure in addition to receiving and processing CS based traffic and signaling data PS gateway node s can authorize and authenticate PS based data sessions e.g. an incoming call or setup call with device s served through access network via link s and link s which include wireline links e.g. reference links or wireless link s e.g. line of sight LOS links . Device s is a set of devices that includes wireless device s wireline device s or a combination thereof. For example device s can include a mobile device of a subscriber that exploits customized communication routing as described herein and a set of wireline devices e.g. that operate within service coverage area e.g. served by a femtocell AP e.g. .

Access network s can include one or more components that enable transmission of data and signaling including related payload data amongst device s and macro network platform access network s can be part of access network s and operate in substantially the same or the same manner thereof. Access network s can include a radio access network RAN and associated component s . The RAN comprises one or more outdoor based or outdoor base stations and associated electronic circuitry and respective deployment site s of the one or more outdoor base stations. In addition the RAN includes the air interface which comprises a least one wireless radio link operated in accordance with the base station s radio technology. It should be noted that the RAN comprises various coverage cells such as cell . For a wireless device served by base station s not shown one or more network components that are part of a radio access network in access network enable transmission of data and signaling. For wireline devices one or more components that are part of a wireline network e.g. service network s enable the transmission of data and signaling. Link s represented with open arrows operationally connected to network interface s can deliver data and signaling to the wireline device via the one or more components of the wireline network for example represented by access network and related link s represented with open arrows connecting the access network to device s . Data sessions e.g. an incoming call or setup call can include traffic exchange with networks external to network platform such as wide area network s WAN s or service network s local area network s LAN s e.g. enhanced 911 also can be interfaced with macro network platform through PS gateway node s . Network interface s enable the traffic exchange such interface s can include conventional wireline or wireless links or reference links specific to each of the external network s that interface with PS gateway node s or other portions of the PS domain in macro network platform . In an aspect PS gateway node s can generate packet data protocol PDP contexts when a data session is established. To at least that end in an aspect PS gateway node s can include a tunnel interface e.g. tunnel termination gateway TTG in 3GPP UMTS network s not shown which can facilitate packetized communication with disparate wireless network s which can be part of access network s and can include Wi Fi networks femtocell network s macrocell network s and associated radio access network s RAN s based on various radio technology generations etc. It should be further appreciated that packetized communication can include multiple flows of data that can be generated through server s such as management server s e.g. a provisioning server a MSC or application server s which can implement at least a part of the functionality of customized routing server presence server or customization server . It is to be noted that in 3GPP UMTS network s PS gateway node s e.g. GGSN and tunnel interface e.g. TTG comprise a packet data gateway PDG .

In network environment network platform also includes serving node s that conveys the various packetized flows of data streams that can be directed to device s and that are received through PS gateway node s from server s . In turn server s can receive the communication s such as request for data intended to service network s which can include an IMS core or other packet based cores from user equipment within device s or network elements e.g. customized routing server requests presence information from a HSS . As an example in a 3GPP UMTS network serving node s can be embodied in serving GPRS support node s SGSN . As another example in a 3GPP LTE network service node s can be embodied in a Mobility Management Entity MME .

Server s can operate in various layers of macro network platform . For example server s can operate as part of Operations Support Systems OSS Business Support Systems BSS or network subsystems such as IMS core network. In addition to embodying one or more of customized routing server presence server or customization server and enabling functionality thereof as described herein server s can execute numerous applications which can include consumer oriented application s such as messaging services location services online gaming wireless banking or system oriented applications e.g. wireless device management scheduling or queuing of network traffic or the like. Such application s either consumer oriented or system oriented can generate sets of packetized data streams or flows and manage e.g. schedule queue format . . . such flows. Such application s for example can include add on features to standard services provided by mobile network platform in an aspect the add on features can include the customized communication processing described herein. Data streams generated by server s can be conveyed to PS gateway node s for authentication authorization and initiation of a data session e.g. an incoming call or setup call and to serving node s for communication to device s thereafter.

Server s also can effect security e.g. implement one or more firewalls of macro network platform to ensure network s operation and data integrity in addition to authentication and authorization procedures that CS gateway node s and PS gateway node s can enact. In addition server s can implement timing protocols e.g. Network Time Protocol NTP that supply timing framework s for various operation s of macro network platform . Moreover server s can provision services from external network s e.g. WAN LAN s IMS core network which can be part of service network s or Global Positioning System GPS network s not shown . Server s can include one or more processors not shown configured to provide or that provide in part the functionality of macro network platform . To that end the one or more processors can execute one or more sets of code instructions not shown stored in memory for example.

In example network environment memory can store information related to operation of macro network platform . Information can include content s such as subscriber generated content or from various other sources subscriber account s and associated credential s pricing schemes e.g. promotional rates flat rate programs couponing campaigns and so forth. Memory also can store data related to implementation of customized communication routing described in the subject disclosure for instance in an aspect memory can retain at least part of one or more of presence intelligence routing preference s storage or routing logic . In addition memory can store information from at least one of telephony network s WAN s LAN s SS7 network or service network s . While illustrated as a single entity memory can be distributed amongst one or more of the described external networks server s or other functional elements of network platform . Memory can be embodied at least in part in a VLR a HSS or storage available within a consolidated data repository that centralizes data administrative data operational data etc. for at least macro network platform .

Femto network platform includes component s node s gateway node s interface s server s or platform s that enable both packet switched PS communication e.g. IP based communication frame relay communication ATM communication . . . and generation of control signaling for networked wireless communication. In an aspect femto network platform includes femto gateway node s which have substantially the same functionality as PS gateway node s . Femto gateway node s also can include substantially all or all functionality of serving node s . In an aspect disparate femto gateway node s can control or operate disparate sets of deployed femto APs. Femto network platform also includes clock layer s which can include the clock strata of network time protocol NTP and thus supply various time based utilities and one or more time records.

Server s have substantially the same functionality as described in connection with server s . In an aspect server s can execute multiple application s that provide service e.g. voice and data to wireless devices served through access network and associated femto AP s . Server s also can provide security features to femto network platform . Moreover server s can manage e.g. schedule queue format . . . substantially all packetized flows e.g. IP based flows frame relay based flows ATM based flows . . . the server s generates in addition to data received via interface reference link s wireless link s various bus architectures etc. from macro network platform . Furthermore server s can provision at least in part femtocell service and exchange signaling and related payload data with one or more network components that effect activation of the femtocell service. Further yet server s also implement operations and maintenance O M procedures associated with at least one femto AP and one or more functional elements in femto network platform. In one or more embodiments server s can include one or more processors configured to enable or that enable at least in part the functionality of femto network platform . To that end the one or more processors can execute one or more sets of code instructions stored in memory for example.

Memory also can retain information relevant to operation of the various components of femto network platform and femtocell service provided to one or more subscribers. For example operational information that can be stored in memory can comprise subscriber intelligence such as physical address es billing preference s and plan s one or more records of incidents contracted services which can include media entertainment gaming or the like maintenance and service records related to femtocell service femtocell configuration including devices authorized for femtocell service and authorized subscribers e.g. access control list s associated with one or more deployed e.g. provisioned and active femto APs service policies such as service priority for a device attached to a deployed femto AP and equipment specifications privacy policies add on features which can include parental controls and so forth. In one or more embodiments memory can retain at least part of one or more of presence intelligence routing preference s storage or routing logic .

Communication platform comprises electronic components and associated circuitry that enable processing and manipulation e.g. coding decoding deciphering modulation demodulation of signal s received by femto AP and signal s to be transmitted by femto AP received or transmitted signal s are modulated and coded or otherwise processed in accordance with various radio technology protocols e.g. 3GPP UMTS 3GPP LTE . . . . Components or functional elements in communication platform exchange information through a bus information includes data code instructions signaling and related payload data or the like and the bus can be embodied in at least one of a system bus and address bus a data bus a message bus or a reference link or interface. The electronic components and circuitry can include the set of Q receiver s transmitter s and component s therein a multiplexer demultiplexer mux demux component a modulator demodulator component a coder decoder and a set of one or more chipsets e.g. multi mode chipset s . Receiver s transmitter s can convert signal from analog to digital and vice versa. In addition receiver s transmitter s can divide a single data stream into multiple parallel data streams or perform the reciprocal operation such operations are typically conducted in various multiplexing schemes. Functionally coupled to receiver s transmitter s is a multiplexer demultiplexer mux demux component that enables processing or manipulation of signal s in time and frequency space or domain. Electronic mux demux component can multiplex and demultiplex information data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM code division multiplexing CDM space division multiplexing SDM . In addition mux demux component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code e.g. Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and so on. A modulator demodulator mod demod component also is a part of communication platform and can modulate and demodulate information according to various modulation techniques such as frequency modulation e.g. frequency shift keying amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation QAM with M a positive integer amplitude shift keying ASK phase shift keying PSK and the like. In embodiment mod demod component is functionally coupled to mux demux component via bus . In addition processor s enables at least in part femto AP to process data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing modulation demodulation such as implementing direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times etc.

Communication platform also includes a coder decoder that operates on data in accordance with one or more coding decoding schemes suitable for communication at least in part through one or more receivers s transmitter s . In an aspect the coding decoding schemes or related procedures can be retained as a group of one or more code instructions in memory . When telecommunication through one or more transmission point s not shown associated with femto AP exploits multiple input multiple output MIMO multiple input single output MISO single input multiple output SIMO or single input single output SISO operation coder decoder can implement at least one of space time block coding STBC and associated decoding or space frequency block SFBC coding and associated decoding. Coder decoder also can extract information from data streams coded in accordance with spatial multiplexing scheme. To decode received information e.g. data or control coder decoder can effect at least one of computation of log likelihood ratios LLR associated with constellation realization for a specific demodulation maximal ratio combining MRC filtering maximum likelihood ML detection successive interference cancellation SIC detection zero forcing ZF and minimum mean square error estimation MMSE detection or the like. In addition to operate in the manner described herein coder decoder can employ at least in part mux demux component and mod demod component .

In addition communication platform can process code decode format etc. signal s originated in a wireless environment within a set of one or more electromagnetic EM radiation frequency bands also referred to as frequency bands in the subject specification. The set of EM frequency bands can comprise radio frequency RF portion s and microwave portion s of the EM spectrum although other spectral regions such as infrared IR also can be included. In addition in one aspect the set of EM radiation frequency bands can include at least one of i all or substantially all licensed EM frequency bands or ii all or substantially all unlicensed frequency bands currently available for telecommunication. It is noted that the set is configurable and can be upgraded to incorporate frequency bands or frequency carriers therein as such bands or carriers become available for telecommunication e.g. auctioned for utilization or authorized for free of charge utilization. Communication platform also can operate in accordance with a configurable set of radio technologies or communication protocols thereof procedures that when executed for example by a processor implement the communication protocols can be retained in memory . As new radio technologies become standardized or available a network operator that provides telecommunication service via femtocell network can introduce such technologies in the set of radio technologies that can be utilized for telecommunication through a femto AP deployed in a confined restricted area.

In embodiment multimode chipset s can enable femtocell AP to operate in multiple communication modes through various radio network technologies e.g. second generation 2G third generation 3G fourth generation 4G or deep space satellite based communication in accordance with disparate technical specifications or standard protocols for the radio network technologies or satellite communication. The various radio network technologies being part of the set of radio technologies indicated supra. In an aspect multimode chipset s can enable at least in part communication platform to operate in accordance with standard protocols specific to a telecommunication mode of operation e.g. Long Term Evolution LTE based communication. In another aspect multimode chipset s can be scheduled to operate concurrently in various modes or within a multitask paradigm in which the multimode chipset s operates in a dedicated mode for a specific time interval.

Communication platform can receive and deliver attachment signaling which can be exchanged with a mobile device as a result of a mobility event. In one or more embodiments presence client component can collect via a scanner component not shown and through communication platform the attachment signaling. To collect attachment signaling presence client component via for example the scanner component not shown can decode the attachment signaling based at least in part on blind decoding of received signal s computation of log likelihood ratios LLR associated with constellation realization for a specific demodulation maximum likelihood ML estimation minimum mean square equalization MMSE zero forcing ZF filtering or maximal ratio combining MRC filtering. In response to the attachment signaling presence client component can generate a notification of attachment e.g. IMSI attachment to femto AP or a notification of detachment e.g. implicit detachment or explicit detachment from femto AP . Presence client component also can generate a notification of attachment based on signaling exchanged with a mobile device as part of location area update LAU or a notification of routing area update RAU . Presence client component can supply the foregoing notifications of attachment for delivery through communication platform to provide a notification of attachment presence client component can generate format or encoded and convey the notification based on attachment signaling. The foregoing notifications of attachment can be provided by presence client component or presence client as described supra see e.g. and related discussion .

In embodiment femto AP also includes display interface which can render various indicia associated with functions that control operation of femto AP or reveal operation conditions thereof e.g. available connectivity to backhaul broadband network. In addition display interface can convey information to an end user such as number of currently served mobile devices. Moreover display interface can receive one or more directives to render an environment e.g. display a user interface to configure at least one routing preference associated with customized communication routing as described herein. The one or more directives can be issued e.g. generated and delivered by configuration component which operates in substantially the same or the same manner as configuration component .

Display interface can convey the environment to configure the at least one routing preference via visual or aural indicia. In an example embodiment of display interface see display component can render such environment or other content s associated with configuration of a routing preference to at least such end display component can convey visual or aural indicia. Various schemes can be employed to render the environment to configure the routing preference such as but not limited to windows based schemes e.g. iconic representation pop up representation or text based representation with scroll down or scroll sideways delivery or static rendering. In an aspect display component can be embodied at least in part in a display element within a monitor such as a cathode ray tube CRT monitor a Liquid Crystal Display LCD monitor a plasma monitor a light emitting diode LED monitor an electrochromic monitor or the like. Display component also can enable communication of aural indicia for example via speaker s not shown .

In response to rendering a configuration environment to define a set of routing preferences see e.g. and related description display interface enables entry of data that defines one or more routing preferences in the set of routing preferences. Display interface can collect entry of data through data entry component that can enable femto AP to receive external commands e.g. restart operation or configuration information e.g. edit access control list s within femto AP or in administration component within a core network . Display interface can process e.g. decode code at least in part received input data and convey it as signaling to one or more functional elements component s platform s etc. or memory within femto AP . To mitigate fraudulent transaction s entry of data can be secured through various credential based mechanisms such as password protection biometric protection or the like and an associated secured transport protocol s that can include data encryption. In an aspect one or more sets of code instructions that can be executed to implement such mechanisms can be retained within application app. storage .

Various functional elements and associated circuitry that can embody at least in part data entry component enable data input through one or more gestures e.g. touch speech motion one or more communication protocols. Such functional elements can include a keypad a touch screen a microphone a camera s a bar code reader radio frequency ID RFID reader infrared IR wireless based reader or the like. In addition data entry component also can be functionally coupled to peripheral interface that enables connection to a peripheral device and communication therewith. As an example peripheral interface can allow connection of an external antenna to receive global navigation data e.g. global positioning system GPS data the antenna can reside in an outer location of a confined restricted area in which example femto AP is deployed so the antenna is exposed to open sky. As another example peripheral interface can enable connection to disparate femto AP s . In an aspect peripheral interface can include a set of ports which comprises at least one of parallel ports serial ports Ethernet ports V.35 ports X.21 ports wherein parallel ports can comprise General Purpose Interface Bus GPIB IEEE 1284 while serial ports can include Recommended Standard RS 232 V.11 Universal Serial Bus USB FireWire or IEEE 1394.

Femto AP includes processor s which can be configured to provide or that can provide at least in part functionality to substantially any or any component s platform s interface s node s and so forth within femto AP in accordance with one or more aspects of the described operation of femto AP . Processor s is functionally coupled to each functional element within femto AP and to memory through bus which can be embodied in at least one of a memory bus a system bus an address bus a message bus or one or more reference link s or interface s . In embodiment processor s is illustrated as external to the various functional elements e.g. component s interface s platform s node s of femto AP however in additional or alternative embodiment s processor s can be distributed amongst a plurality of such functional elements. In some embodiment s one or more functional elements that comprise femto AP can reside within memory as one or more sets of code instructions that when executed by processor s implement the various functional elements and described functionality thereof.

Processor s also can supply information to and retrieve information from memory . Such information can enable at least in part operation of or can provide at least in part functionality to communication platform and at least a portion of functional elements therein display interface and functional element s therein as well as other operational components not shown of femto AP . The information can include at least one of code instructions code structure s data structures or the like.

Processor s can execute code instructions stored in memory for example within app. storage or other memory ies functionally coupled to femto AP to provide at least in part the described functionality of femto AP . Such code instructions can include program modules or software applications or firmware applications that implement various methods described in the subject specification and associated at least in part with functionality or operation of femto AP .

Memory also can retain at least in part in application storage at least one of data structures e.g. objects classes metadata code structure s e.g. modules procedures or code instructions or substantially any type of software application s or firmware application s that processor s can execute to enable at least in part functionality associated with substantially any or any component s platform s interface s or functional element s within femto AP in accordance with aspects described herein. In addition memory can store network or device information e.g. within data storage such as one or more communication protocol s or technical specification s code sequences for scrambling or spreading blind decoding hypotheses semi persistent scheduling parameters frequency offsets macrocell base station identifiers and femtocell AP identifiers IDs address book s or the like. Moreover memory can retain content s such as multimedia files or subscriber generated data. Furthermore memory can retain e.g. within data storage security credentials e.g. passwords encryption keys digital certificates biometric keys such as voice recordings iris patterns fingerprints deoxyribonucleic acid DNA profiles hardware identifying tokens or codes such as at least one of an IMSI a temporary international mobile subscriber identity TIMSI packet TIMSI P TIMSI an IMEI an MDN a MIN a TIA ESN or a multi bit identification number such as MEID. It is noted that memory can include affixed or removable elements such as a subscriber identification module SIM card storage a universal integrated circuit card UICC storage or a removable user identity module RUIM . In one or more embodiments at least a portion of memory and content thereof can be external to femto AP and linked thereto via a peripheral interface e.g. .

Memory also includes access control list s ACL s which can be employed at least to configure default logic for customized routing of an incoming call as discussed supra. ACL s enable at least in part regulation of access to wireless service supplied through femto AP and features of supplied wireless service. To at least that end ACL s can comprise a set of access attributes which identify devices that can communicate wirelessly and are authorized to receive telecommunication service through femto AP . An access attribute uniquely identifies a device.

An access control list associated with a femtocell AP can enable regulation of access thereto in at least the following manner. If a femtocell AP e.g. receives attachment signaling e.g. LAU signaling or RAU signaling in UMTS based radio technology originated by a device e.g. a handset in set the femtocell AP validates an identity of the device as conveyed in the attachment signaling against the access control list e.g. ACL s associated with the femtocell AP. If the identity of the device matches a device identifier in the ACL the attachment procedure associated with received attachment signaling is completed and the femtocell AP allows the device to camp therein and establish call sessions normally. In the alternative if validation against the ACL results in no match amongst the identity of the device and a device identity retained in the ACL the femtocell AP rejects the attachment signaling and the device is allowed only to establish emergency calls. An owner or lessee of a femtocell AP can determine access attributes to be recorded in or removed from an access control list associated with the femtocell AP.

More than one ACL can be retained in memory however a single ACL can be active at a time in order to regulate access and provide wireless services. Memory also can retain service attributes that control logic for provision of service to a wireless device identified in an ACL. Service attributes can be specific to a femto AP . The logic for provision of service can establish at least one of the following features i Supplied service s e.g. voice only service data only service and available applications voice and data service and provided applications associated with the service s . In addition radio technology employed to supply service s also can be set. ii Service priority e.g. ranking of access to radio resources such as radio technology 3G or 4G bandwidth dedicated channels. iii Access schedule or time constraints such as time of day considerations or expected duration of provided service. iv Level of service or access quality of service e.g. quality of service QoS profile such as best effort conversational real time. It should be appreciated that service attributes also can determine other service features.

A configuration of service attributes also referred to as a profile of service attributes or access profile is specific to a mobile device identified in an access control list even though it should be noted that a particular configuration of service attributes can display a one to many relationship with identified devices in an ACL. Accordingly specification of a service attribute profile can customize provision of wireless service through a femto AP .

Communication platform comprises electronic components and associated circuitry that enable processing and manipulation e.g. coding decoding deciphering modulation demodulation of wireless signal s received by mobile device and wireless signal s to be transmitted by mobile device the wireless signal s modulated and coded or otherwise processed in accordance with various radio technology protocols. Components or functional elements in communication platform exchange information through a bus information includes data code instructions signaling or the like and the bus can be embodied in at least one of a system bus and address bus a data bus a message bus or a reference link or interface. The electronic components and circuitry can include the set of K receiver s transmitter s and component s therein a multiplexer demultiplexer mux demux component a modulator demodulator component a coder decoder and a set of one or more chipsets e.g. multi mode chipset s . As indicated above the transceivers includes receiver s transmitter s that can convert signal from analog to digital upon reception and from digital to analog upon transmission. Receiver s transmitter s also can divide a single data stream into multiple parallel data streams or perform the reciprocal operation such operations typically conducted in various multiplexing schemes. Functionally coupled to receiver s transmitter s is a multiplexer demultiplexer mux demux component that enables processing or manipulation of wireless signal s in time and frequency space or domain. Electronic mux demux component can multiplex and demultiplex information data traffic and control signaling according to various multiplexing schemes such as time division multiplexing TDM frequency division multiplexing FDM orthogonal frequency division multiplexing OFDM code division multiplexing CDM space division multiplexing SDM . In addition mux demux component can scramble and spread information e.g. codes according to substantially any code e.g. Hadamard Walsh codes Baker codes Kasami codes polyphase codes and so on. A modulator demodulator mod demod component also is a part of communication platform and can modulate and demodulate information according to various modulation techniques such as frequency modulation e.g. frequency shift keying amplitude modulation e.g. M ary quadrature amplitude modulation QAM with M a positive integer amplitude shift keying ASK phase shift keying PSK and the like. In embodiment mod demod component is functionally coupled to mux demux component via bus . In addition processor s enables at least in part mobile device to process data e.g. symbols bits or chips for multiplexing demultiplexing modulation demodulation such as implementing direct and inverse fast Fourier transforms selection of modulation rates selection of data packet formats inter packet times etc.

Communication platform also includes a coder decoder that operates on data in accordance with one or more coding decoding schemes suitable for telecommunication through one or more receivers s transmitter s . When communication platform exploits MIMO MISO SIMO modes of operation coder decoder can implement at least one of space time block coding STBC and associated decoding or space frequency block SFBC coding and associated decoding. Coder decoder also can extract information from data streams coding in accordance with spatial multiplexing scheme. To decode received information e.g. data or control signaling coder decoder can effect at least one of computation of log likelihood ratios LLR associated with constellation realization for a specific demodulation maximal ratio combining MRC filtering maximum likelihood ML detection successive interference cancellation SIC detection zero forcing ZF and minimum mean square error estimation MMSE detection or the like. In addition to operate in the manner described herein coder decoder can employ at least in part mux demux component and mod demod component .

A network operator can configure as part of provisioning of mobile device a set of electromagnetic EM radiation frequency bands and a set of radio technologies that communication platform and components therein can exploit for wireless communication. The set of EM radiation frequency bands also referred to herein as frequency bands can comprise radio frequency RF portion s and microwave portion s of the EM spectrum although other spectral regions such as infrared IR also can be included. In an aspect the set of EM radiation frequency bands can include at least one of i all or substantially all EM frequency bands licensed by the network operator e.g. PCS bands AWS bands GWCS bands and so forth or ii all or substantially all unlicensed frequency bands currently available for telecommunication e.g. the 2.4 GHz Industrial Scientific and Medical ISM band or one or more of the Unlicensed National Information Infra structure UNII bands in the 5 GHz range . It is noted that as part of network upgrades the network operator can add frequency bands or frequency carriers therein to the set of EM radiation frequency bands as such bands or carriers become available for telecommunication e.g. auctioned for utilization or authorized for free of charge utilization. Similarly as new radio technologies become standardized or available the network operator can introduce such technologies in the set of radio technologies that can be utilized for telecommunication by mobile device .

Additionally in embodiment multimode chipset s can allow mobile device to operate in multiple communication modes through various radio network technologies e.g. 2G 3G or 4G or deep space satellite based communication in accordance with disparate technical specifications or standard protocols for the radio network technologies or satellite communication. In an aspect multimode chipset s can enable at least in part communication platform to operate in accordance with standard protocols specific to a telecommunication mode of operation e.g. 3GPP Long Term Evolution LTE based communication. In another aspect multimode chipset s can be scheduled to operate concurrently e.g. when K 1 in various modes or within a multitask paradigm in which the multimode chipset s operates in a dedicated mode for a specific time interval. In yet another aspect multi mode chipset s enable communication platform to receive global positioning system GPS pilot signals e.g. timing message s orbit information from one or more deployed global navigation satellite systems GNNSs .

Communication platform can exchange e.g. received and transmit attachment signaling with at least one confined coverage AP e.g. a femtocell AP or outdoor based base station e.g. an eNode B or other type of macrocell base station and deliver notification of attachment e.g. IMSI attachment to the confined coverage AP or a notification of detachment e.g. implicit detachment or explicit detachment from the confined coverage AP. Moreover based on exchange of attachment signaling communication platform can deliver notification of attachment to the outdoor based base station e.g. an eNode B or a notification of detachment therefrom. In one or more embodiments for example in UMTS based radio technology communication platform also can deliver a notification of location area update LAU or a notification of routing area update RAU . In an aspect the foregoing notifications of mobility events can be provided by presence client component or presence client as described supra see e.g. and related discussion to provide a notification presence client component can generate format or encoded and convey the notification based on attachment signaling.

In an aspect display interface can receive one or more directives to render an environment e.g. display one or more user interfaces to configure at least one routing preference as described supra. In addition display interface can receive and process e.g. decode encode format or deliver data from a subscriber via one or more gestures e.g. touch speech motion . In response to rendering the environment to configure the at least one routing preference the display interface can receive and process data that defines the at least one routing preference a data entry interface and associated circuitry within display interface can cast such input into data. Display interface can deliver the data either raw or processed to memory to be retained in memory element or data cache . To mitigate fraudulent or undesired configuration of the at least one routing preference in an embodiment a security component not shown can secure input data that defines the at least one routing preference through various credential based mechanisms such as password protection biometric protection or the like and associated secured transport protocol s which include data encryption.

Further to enabling wireless communication of voice or data mobile device can provide a specific functionality for instance device can be a mobile phone a photography camera a video camera a wireless dedicated computer such as a device in an industrial environment a navigation device a printer or photocopier a scanner a fax machine a television set a digital picture frame or the like. Such specific functionality can be supplied primarily through a functional platform that comprises a set of components not shown that enable at least in part one or more specific functionalities that can complement or supplement wireless communication. It should be appreciated that functional platform can exploit an application either a software application or a hardware application retained in application storage in order to provide one or more functionalities of mobile device the application is retained as one or more sets of code instructions. As an example in an aspect of the subject innovation application storage can include an application that when executed can provide tutorial s for operation of mobile device . As another example when mobile device is a telephone functional platform can include functional elements such as a data entry interface e.g. a touch screen a keyboard a biometric pad for biometric based access a microphone a loud speaker a camera peripheral connectors e.g. a universal serial bus USB port or an IEEE 1394 port for transferring data to or exchanging data with a disparate device a voice coder decoder which can be part of coder decoder intelligent component s that can respond to voice activated command s and so on.

Display interface also can render visual or aural indicia that control functionality of mobile device as supplied through functional platform or reveal operational conditions of mobile device for example battery level radio technology employed for communication or the like.

Mobile device includes processor s configured to enable or that enable at least in part functionality to substantially any or any component s or platform s interface s and so forth within mobile device in accordance with one or more aspects of the subject disclosure. In embodiment processor s is illustrated as external to the various functional elements e.g. component s interface s platform s of mobile device however in additional or alternative embodiments processor s can be distributed amongst a plurality of such various functional elements. Processor s is functionally e.g. communicatively coupled to each functional element within mobile device and to memory through bus which can be embodied in at least one of a memory bus a system bus an address bus a message bus or one or more reference link s or interface s . In addition processor s can supply information to and retrieve information from memory wherein the information can enable at least in part operation and or can provide at least in part functionality to communication platform and at least a portion of component s therein presence client component configuration component and component s therein functional platform and component s therein as well as other operational components not shown of mobile device . The information can include at least one of code instructions code structure s data structures or the like.

Processor s can execute code instructions stored in memory for example within application storage or other memory ies functionally coupled to mobile device to provide the described functionality of mobile device . Such code instructions can include program modules or software applications or firmware applications that implement various methods described in the subject disclosure and that are associated at least in part with described functionality of mobile device .

Memory can retain at least in part in an application storage at least one of data structures e.g. objects classes metadata code structure s e.g. modules procedures or instructions or substantially any type of software or firmware that processor s can execute to provide functionality associated with substantially any or any component s platform s interface s or functional element s within mobile device in accordance with aspects of the subject innovation. In addition memory can store network or device information e.g. within data storage such as encoded pilot signal s one or more communication protocol s or technical specification s code sequences for scrambling or spreading blind decoding hypotheses semi persistent scheduling parameters frequency offsets macrocell and femtocell identifiers IDs address book s or the like. Moreover memory can retain content s such as multimedia files or subscriber generated data security credentials e.g. passwords encryption keys digital certificates biometric keys such as voice recordings iris patterns fingerprints deoxyribonucleic acid DNA profiles hardware identifying tokens or codes such as at least one of an IMSI a temporary mobile subscriber identity TMSI packet TMSI P TMSI an IMEI an MDN a MIN a TIA ESN or a multi bit identification number such as MEID. It is noted that memory can include affixed or removable elements such as a subscriber identification module SIM card storage a universal integrated circuit card UICC storage or a removable user identity module RUIM .

Mobile device also includes power supply which can provide power to one or more components or functional elements that operate within mobile device . In an aspect power supply can be rechargeable e.g. it can be embodied in a rechargeable battery. In addition power supply can include one or more transformers to achieve power level s that can operate mobile device and components or functional elements and related circuitry therein. In an aspect power supply can attach to a conventional power grid to recharge or ensure mobile device is operational power supply can include input output I O interface s not shown or connector s not shown to functionally attach to the conventional power grid. Power supply also can include an energy conversion component s not shown such as a solar panel or a thermoelectric device or material which can be external or internal to the mobile device in order to provide additional or alternative power resources or autonomy to mobile device .

In view of the example systems described above example methods that can be implemented in accordance with the disclosed subject matter can be better appreciated with reference to . For purposes of simplicity of explanation various methods disclosed herein are presented and described as a series of acts however it is to be understood and appreciated that the claimed subject matter is not limited by the order of acts as some acts may occur in different order and or concurrently with other acts from that shown and described herein. It is noted that not all illustrated acts may be required to implement a described method in accordance with the subject specification. In addition for example one or more methods disclosed herein could alternatively be represented as a series of interrelated states or events such as in a state diagram. Moreover interaction diagram s or call flow s represent several of the example methods disclosed herein in accordance with the described subject matter particularly in instances when disparate entities or functional elements enact disparate portions of one or more of the several methods. Furthermore two or more of the disclosed example methods can be implemented in combination to accomplish one or more features or advantages described in the subject disclosure.

Methods disclosed throughout the subject specification and annexed drawings are capable of being stored on an article of manufacture e.g. a removable volatile memory or non volatile memory to facilitate transporting and transferring such methods to computers for execution and thus implementation by a processor or for storage in a memory. In an aspect one or more processors such as processor s that enact the one or more method described herein can be employed to execute code instructions retained in a memory volatile or non volatile or any computer or machine readable storage medium to implement one or more of the method described herein. Such code instructions provide a computer or machine executable framework to enact the various methods described herein.

At act an indication to effect customized call processing to route an incoming call is received. In an aspect the indication can be received in response to invoking a CAMEL service when the incoming call is intended for a mobile device associated with e.g. owned or leased by a subscriber that consumes personalized communication routing service described in the subject disclosure. In another aspect the indication can be received as a result of invoking an AS within an IMS core network when the incoming call is directed to the mobile device of the subscriber.

At act customized call processing to route the incoming call based on at least one of presence information or a set of routing preferences is effected. In an embodiment act can include various acts as illustrated in which presents a flowchart of an example method for effecting customized call processing according to aspects described herein. Server s component s or processor s that effect at least act also can effect the subject example method. At act at least one routing preference in a set of routing preferences associated with the called device is gathered. At act presence information for a mobile device associated with the called device is collected. In an aspect the association can be derived from device ownership as revealed by one or more records in a subscriber database in a telecommunication network platform e.g. . A mobile device can be associated with one or more devices wireless or otherwise if a physical address e.g. an address for billing of the mobile device matches a physical address of the one or more devices. In another aspect presence information can be characterized a one or more presence condition records which can be persisted in a memory that indicate whether the mobile device is attached to a femtocell access point or any other type of confined coverage access point. At act the at least one routing preference is applied to the incoming call according to the presence information for the called device. At act the incoming call is routed based on an outcome of applying the at least one routing preference to the incoming call.

At act customized routing server applies a routing preference based in part on presence intelligence. The routing preference can be retained within a memory element e.g. routing preference s storage functionally connected to customized routing server . The customized routing server can receive presence intelligence from a repository e.g. presence intelligence storage functionally linked thereto. At act the customized routing server submits an INVITE message with PSTN TN as source address and a wireline TN as the destination address to the IMS . It is noted that in one or more embodiments a plurality of INVITE messages can be delivered. At act the IMS initiates a call session with the wireline endpoint identified by the destination address by relaying the INVITE message received from the customized routing server .

Regarding the incoming call is directed or routed to a wireless device UE . At act an initial address message is delivered to IMS from GMSC . The address message includes references to a destination number IMRN and a source number PSTN TN . In response at act the IMS submits an INVITE message to customized routing server the invite message is directed to IMRN from PSTN TN. At act the routing server applies a routing preference based in part on presence intelligence this act is substantially the same as act and conveys an INVITE to IMS . The INVITE is directed to the wireless device through a reference to a mobile telephone number TN associated with the wireless device. The INVITE message has a reference to the source number PSTN TN . In view of the reference to the mobile TN IMS delivers an initial address message to GMSC at act . The GMSC responds by supplying an initial DP with references to IMRN and PSTN TN to IMS at act . IMS conveys at act signaling to continue the call session towards destination address IMRN. GMSC receives such signaling and validates destination address with a mobility management component such as a Home Location Register HLR validation acts not depicted in . After validation GMSC delivers at act an initial address message with references to mobile TN as source and PSTN TN as destination the initiation address message is delivered to mobility switching center MSC Visited Location Register VLR . In response to the initial address message MSC VLR exchanges signaling and related payload data through various acts with at least one component of a radio access network RAN for call setup. The RAN exchanges signaling and related payload data with the intended wireless device UE via one or more acts . The various acts and the at least one component of RAN are specific to the radio technology employing for wireless communication.

In example method at act an initial address message is delivered to IMS by one or more components within PSTN not shown represented with a solid circle in the drawing . In response at act IMS invokes personalized routing and delivers an INVITE message to routing server at act the INVITE message includes references to destination address wireline TN and source address PSTN TN . At act the routing server applies a routing preference based in part on presence intelligence. In an aspect in the illustrated scenario a routing destination address is a mobile device address mobile TN and customized routing server submits at act an INVITE message to IMS with references to mobile TN as destination address and PSTN TN as source address. In response to the received INVITE message and since the destination address is a mobile device address IMS delivers an initial address message to GMSC at act . After the initial address message is received at act GMSC conveys an initial DP message with references to PSTN TN as the calling party and mobile TN as the called party. IMS recognizes the destination address as the wireless device address and conveys a CONTINUE message to GMSC to proceed with call session establishment towards the wireless device.

Subsequent to routing validation not shown GMSC responds at act by delivering an initial address message with references to PSTN TN as calling party and mobile TN as called party to MSC VLR . It should be appreciated that in one or more embodiments such initial address message can be delivered to a MM component determined by a specific radio technology utilized to establish wireless call session s . In one or more acts MSC VLR exchanges a set of messages for call set up with one or more components of RAN . Likewise in one or more acts the one or more components of the RAN exchanges messages for call setup with UE . As discussed supra packet based network platforms other than IMSs can provide the functionality described herein and administer telecommunication services as part of the subject customized call routing. Other protocols for session initiation such as H.323 also can be employed.

At act a notification of a mobility event is received. The mobility event includes attachment towards either a macrocell base station or a femtocell AP and the notification can include information that characterizes the location of the macrocell base station or the femtocell AP. Receiving the notification can include receiving a notification message or message according to a peer to peer communication protocol as described supra. At act presence intelligence based at least in part on the notification is updated. In an aspect updating the presence intelligence includes creating or modifying at least one record in a presence intelligence database or memory element.

At act user equipment attaches to a femtocell access point and delivers at act a notification of the attachment to presence server . As indicated supra the notification can be delivered according to a proprietary data delivery protocol or one or more standardized data delivery protocol such as XDMS XCAP HTTP or the like. In an aspect UE can deliver the notification via a presence client component or a processor that executes the presence client component and resides within the UE . At act the presence server updates a presence condition which can be retained in a presence record e.g. a logical flag a database entry stored in a memory e.g. presence intelligence store accessible to the presence server . After the update is completed e.g. upon completion substantially upon completion or after a predetermined period subsequent to completion presence server delivers acknowledgement signaling to UE .

At act the UE attaches to a macrocell base station and delivers at act a notification of attachment to presence server . Attachment to the macrocell base station can arise as a result of UE moving outside the area of coverage afforded by the femtocell AP. In response the presence server updates the presence condition at act . As described supra after the update is completed e.g. upon completion substantially upon completion or after a predetermined period subsequent to completion presence server delivers acknowledgement ACK signaling to UE .

Example method can be implemented in a scenario a mobile device attaches to or registers in a femtocell upon powering on. At act UE powers on within area of coverage of femtocell AP and delivers location update signaling thereto at act . The location update signaling is specific to the radio technology utilized by the femtocell AP e.g. in UMTS based technology attachment signaling can include location area update LAU or routing area update RAU . Since UE powers on the location update signaling can include an IMSI attach request the updated location can be area information. Femtocell AP relays at act the location update signaling to femtocell gateway GTY node which conveys at act the location update signaling to mobility management MM component . In turn at act MM component delivers a location notification to presence server . It should be appreciated that MM component can be specific to the radio technology implemented for telecommunication through macro network platform for instance in 3GPP LTE networks MM component can be embodied in a mobility management entity MME whereas in the 3GPP UMTS network MM component can be embodied in a MSC. In an aspect acts through embody notification act the location notification embodies notification of attachment delivered in act . At act presence server updates presence condition or presence intelligence for UE by creating or modifying values of a presence flag to In Premises. While the subject example method is illustrated for a femtocell AP and related access network element s the subject example method can be advantageously exploited for other types of confined coverage access points Wi Fi AP picocell AP etc. .

At act MM component delivers ACK signaling to femtocell GTY node which relays at act the ACK signaling to femtocell AP . At act the femtocell AP conveys the ACK signaling to UE . It is noted that the order of acts and can be reversed without affecting the functionality provided by the subject example method. In addition in one or more additional or alternative embodiments presence server can receive the location notification from femtocell GTY in such embodiments the presence server can be embodied in one or more servers within a femtocell network platform e.g. .

Example method can be implemented in a scenario a mobile device attaches to a femtocell AP as a result of a mobility event that leads the mobile device into the coverage area of the femtocell AP. At act UE moves from femtocell to macrocell and at act delivers location update signaling to femtocell AP which relays at act the location update signaling to femtocell gateway node . As indicated supra the location update signaling is specific to the radio technology utilized by the femtocell AP e.g. in UMTS based technology attachment signaling can include location area update LAU or routing area update RAU . Since UE moves into femtocell service coverage the location update signaling can include LAU request. In turn the femtocell GTY node delivers at act the location update signaling to MM component which conveys at act a location notification to presence server . In an aspect acts through embody notification act the location notification embodies notification of attachment delivered in act . In response to receiving e.g. collecting and processing the location notification at act presence server updates presence condition or presence intelligence for UE by creating or modifying a value of a presence flag to reflect In Premises. In a scenario extrinsic forwarding service is enabled In Premises value can be composite including a field attribute that identifies femtocell AP as a home femto AP or a 3P femto AP. Similarly to example method while the subject example method is illustrated for a femtocell AP and related access network element s example method can be advantageously exploited for other types of confined coverage access points Wi Fi AP picocell AP etc. 

In response to receiving e.g. collecting and processing the location update signaling MM component delivers at act ACK signaling to femtocell GTY node which transmits at act the ACK signaling to femtocell AP . In turn femtocell AP delivers at act the ACK signaling to UE . In an aspect acts through embody acknowledgement act .

As discussed supra it is noted that the order of acts and can be reversed without affecting the functionality provided by the subject example method. In addition in one or more additional or alternative embodiments presence server can receive the location notification from femtocell GTY in such embodiments the presence server can be embodied in one or more servers within a femtocell network platform e.g. .

Example method can be implemented in a scenario a mobile device powers on in an area of coverage of a macrocell base station and attaches thereto. At act UE powers on within area of coverage of a macrocell base station that is part of RAN and delivers location update signaling thereto at act . The signaling is specific to the radio technology utilized by the femtocell AP e.g. in UMTS based technology attachment signaling can include location area update LAU or routing area update RAU . Since UE powers on the location update signaling can include an IMSI attach request the updated location can be area information. At act one or more components of the RAN e.g. the macrocell base station deliver the location update signaling to MM component . In turn at act MM component delivers a location notification to presence server . In an aspect acts embody notification act the location notification embodies notification of attachment delivered in act . In response to receiving e.g. collecting and processing the location notification at act presence server updates presence condition or presence intelligence.

At act MM component delivers ACK signaling to one or more components of RAN e.g. the macrocell base station which relay the ACK signaling to UE at act . In an aspect acts and embody acknowledgement act . As discussed supra the order of acts and can be reversed without affecting the functionality provided by the subject example method.

Example method for updating presence intelligence according to aspects of the subject innovation can be implemented in a scenario in which a mobile device attaches to a macrocell base station as a result of a mobility event that leads the mobile device into the coverage area of the macrocell base station. At act UE moves to macrocell from femtocell and at act delivers location update signaling to one or more component of RAN e.g. the macrocell base station which relays at act the location update signaling to MM component . The signaling is specific to the radio technology utilized by the femtocell AP e.g. in UMTS based technology attachment signaling can include location area update LAU or routing area update RAU . In turn MM component conveys at act a location notification to presence server . In an aspect acts through embody notification act the location notification embodies notification of attachment delivered in act . In response to receiving e.g. collecting and processing the location notification at act presence server updates presence condition or presence intelligence for UE .

In response to receiving e.g. collecting and processing the location update signaling MM component delivers at act ACK signaling to one or more components of RAN e.g. the base station which transmits at act the ACK signaling to the UE . In an aspect acts and embody acknowledgement act . As discussed supra it is noted that the order of acts and can be reversed without affecting the functionality provided by the subject example method.

At act an indication to configure at least one routing preference is received. Receiving the indication can include receiving an instruction to execute an application e.g. a software application or a firmware application. At act a directive to render an environment to configure the at least one routing preference is transmitted as a result in part of executing the application. At act a set of input data that defines the at least one routing preference is received. At act the at least one routing preference is committed. In an aspect committing the at least one routing preference includes storing the at least one routing preference in one or more memories removable or affixed accessible by component s or processor s that enact the subject example method or other methods described herein. For instance the at least one routing preference can be retained in routing preference storage within memory .

At act at least one of a first environment to configure a routing preference or a second environment to configure a screening criterion is rendered it should be appreciated that in one or more scenarios both the first and second environments can be rendered concurrently. At act at least one of a first set of input data that defines the routing preference or a second set of input data that defines the screening criterion is collected. At act at least one of the first set of input data or the second set of input data is delivered.

As it is employed in the subject disclosure the term processor can refer to substantially any computing processing unit or device comprising but not limited to comprising single core processors single processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors multi core processors with software multithread execution capability multi core processors with hardware multithread technology parallel platforms and parallel platforms with distributed shared memory. Additionally a processor can refer to an integrated circuit an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a digital signal processor DSP a field programmable gate array FPGA a programmable logic controller PLC a complex programmable logic device CPLD a discrete gate or transistor logic discrete hardware components or any combination thereof designed to perform the functions described herein. Processors can exploit nano scale architectures such as but not limited to molecular and quantum dot based transistors switches and gates in order to optimize space usage or enhance performance of user equipment. A processor may also be implemented as a combination of computing processing units.

In the subject specification and annexed drawings terms such as store data store data storage database repository and substantially any other information storage component relevant to operation and functionality of a component refer to memory components or entities embodied in a memory or components comprising the memory. It will be appreciated that the memory components described herein can be either volatile memory or nonvolatile memory or can include both volatile and nonvolatile memory. In addition memory elements described herein can be affixed removable or a combination thereof.

By way of illustration and not limitation nonvolatile memory can include read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM electrically programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable ROM EEPROM or flash memory. Volatile memory can include random access memory RAM which acts as external cache memory. By way of illustration and not limitation RAM is available in many forms such as synchronous RAM SRAM dynamic RAM DRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM double data rate SDRAM DDR SDRAM enhanced SDRAM ESDRAM Synchlink DRAM SLDRAM and direct Rambus RAM DRRAM . Additionally the disclosed memory components of systems or methods herein are intended to comprise without being limited to comprising these and any other suitable types of memory.

Various aspects or features described herein may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques. In addition various aspects disclosed in the subject specification can also be implemented through code instructions or program modules stored in a memory and executed by a processor or other combination of hardware and software or hardware and firmware. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. For example computer readable media can include but are not limited to magnetic storage devices e.g. hard disk floppy disk magnetic strips . . . optical disks e.g. compact disc CD digital versatile disc DVD blu ray disc BD . . . smart cards and flash memory devices e.g. card stick key drive . . . .

It should be appreciated that while various aspects features or advantages described herein have been illustrated through femtocell access point s and associated coverage such aspects or features also can be exploited in confined coverage access point s that provide wireless coverage through substantially any or any disparate telecommunication technologies such as for example Wi Fi wireless fidelity or picocell telecommunication. Moreover aspects features or advantages of the subject disclosure can be exploited in substantially any wireless telecommunication or radio technology for example Wi Fi Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMAX Enhanced General Packet Radio Service Enhanced GPRS 3GPP LTE 3GPP2 UMB 3GPP UMTS HSPA HSDPA HSUPA or LTE Advanced. Furthermore substantially all aspects of the subject disclosure can include legacy telecommunication technologies.

What has been described above includes examples of systems and methods that provide advantages of the subject disclosure. It is of course not possible to describe every conceivable combination of components or methodologies for purposes of describing the subject disclosure but one of ordinary skill in the art may recognize that many further combinations and permutations of the claimed subject matter are possible. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes has possesses and the like are used in the detailed description claims appendices and drawings such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising as comprising is interpreted when employed as a transitional word in a claim.

