---

title: Open class noun classification
abstract: A method of semantically classifying a data set of open class nouns and a system for executing the method. The method includes loading, by a processing device, a data set comprising one or more open class nouns from a computer readable medium operably connected to the processing device; extracting, by the processing device, the one or more open class nouns from the data set; for each open class noun, querying, by the processing device, one or more application programming interfaces (APIs) to produce one or more results; deriving, by the processing device, a confidence score for the data set based upon the one or more results; and determining, by the processing device, a classification for the data set based upon the derived confidence score.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08195458&OS=08195458&RS=08195458
owner: Xerox Corporation
number: 08195458
owner_city: Norwalk
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100817
---
This application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 857 997 filed Aug. 17 2010 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference.

The present disclosure relates to methods and systems for semantically classifying open class nouns. In some embodiments the present disclosure relates to methods and systems for semantically classifying a data set including a large number of open class nouns.

Many websites and interactive software programs include or create various data sets including one or more pieces of data. Typically semantically classifying the data included in these data sets requires comparing each piece of data in the set to an electronic knowledge base EKB to determine the classification for the individual datum. Various classifications may include first names last names peoples whole names street names business names product names song titles book titles etc. However occasionally a data set will include various pieces of data that overlap two or more classifications thereby making a single comparison to one or more EKBs unreliable to classify a data set.

In typical digital marketplaces a user can use a keyword or semantically based search to identify individual content such as text phrases and custom graphics and images. However content and other digital media previously organized into data sets such as a data set including pieces of data that overlap two or more classifications is difficult to search as the search results may include a large number of returned pieces of data many of which may be unrelated to the user s search. This can result in lost revenue for the digital marketplace because the user may be unable to sort through the results to find what they are looking for and thus the user may not purchase the content.

Additionally variable data marketing campaigns rely on one or more data sources to produce dynamic documents consisting of variable content. The dynamic documents are targeted toward particular recipients e.g. customers prospects event invitees etc. . The cleanliness of the data source content is crucial toward the success of a variable data marketing campaign. Therefore accurate semantic identification of data source content is highly valued.

This disclosure is not limited to the particular systems devices and methods described as these may vary. The terminology used in the description is for the purpose of describing the particular versions or embodiments only and is not intended to limit the scope.

As used in this document the singular forms a an and the include plural references unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. Unless defined otherwise all technical and scientific terms used herein have the same meanings as commonly understood by one of ordinary skill in the art. Nothing in this disclosure is to be construed as an admission that the embodiments described in this disclosure are not entitled to antedate such disclosure by virtue of prior invention. As used in this document the term comprising means including but not limited to. 

In one general respect the embodiments disclose a method of semantically classifying a data set of open class nouns. The method includes loading by a processing device a data set comprising one or more open class nouns from a computer readable medium operably connected to the processing device extracting by the processing device the one or more open class nouns from the data set for each open class noun querying by the processing device one or more application programming interfaces APIs to produce one or more results deriving by the processing device a confidence score for the data set based upon the one or more results and determining by the processing device a classification for the data set based upon the derived confidence score.

In another general respect the embodiments disclose a system for semantically classifying a data set of open class nouns. The system includes a processing device and a computer readable medium in communication with the processing device. The computer readable medium includes one or more programming instructions that when executed cause the processing device to load a data set comprising one or more open class nouns from the computer readable medium extract the one or more open class nouns from the data set for each open class noun query one or more application programming interfaces APIs to produce one or more results derive a confidence score for the data set based upon the one or more results and determine a classification for the data set based upon the derived confidence score.

In another general respect the embodiments disclose a method of semantically classifying a data set of open class nouns. The method includes loading by a processing device a data set comprising one or more open class nouns from a computer readable medium operably connected to the processing device processing by the processing device the data set to determine one or more application programming interfaces APIs to query extracting by the processing device the one or more open class nouns from the data set for each open class noun querying by the processing device the determined one or more APIs to produce one or more results deriving by the processing device a confidence score for the data set based upon the one or more results and determining by the processing device a classification for the data set based upon the derived confidence score.

For purposes of the discussion below a campaign refers to set of related media documents having variable data content and intended for one or more recipients.

 Semantically classifying refers to a process of assigning a received datum to at least one of a plurality of predetermined semantic classes based upon one or more heuristics or characteristics of the datum.

An electronic knowledge base EKB refers to one or more electronic data structures for storing various fact based pieces of data. Generally EKBs are sorted and searchable for determining various classifications types for a data set.

An open class noun refers to a freeform piece of data typically a proper noun that is not generally stored in an EKB or may overlap several EKBs.

An application programming interface API refers to a software interface designed to interact with additional software such as data repositories libraries operating systems or other additional software to access various services.

The present disclosure provides a system and method for semantically classifying open class nouns organized in various data sets such that reliable classifications are determined for the open class nouns. Semantic classification of a data set of open class nouns is not efficient or reliable using current semantic searching approaches. For example a user cannot query an EKB to easily discern a list of peoples first names.

The system and method discussed herein provides a collection of one or more network based application programming interfaces APIs gathered together into a single portal or interface accessible to a user. The portal provides querying capabilities that may determine the existence and classification of open class nouns stored in a data set. Each API may provide one or more query methods for access to a repository of open class nouns. For example a telephone directory such as www.whitepages.com may have an associated web based API call associated with the website. The web based API call may be used by the portal to look up one or more persons names. By querying a sample set of data against each available data repository a probabilistic confidence score referred to herein as confidence score may be determined for each data set. The confidence score may be determined or derived based upon a number of hits or positive matches a data set has when compared to a specific data repository. Based upon the confidence score a classification may be determined for the data set of open class nouns.

Examples of web based APIs offering data repositories for querying may include but are not limited to the following 

Each API may have its own programmatic interface to query its respective repositories. Numerous programming mechanisms currently exist to interface with various web based APIs. For example a representational state transfer REST interface may be used over a hypertext transfer protocol HTTP connection supporting various data formats such as extensible markup language XML JavaScript object notation JSON and hypertext preprocessing PHP . More details regarding the system and method taught herein are discussed in the following discussions related to .

For each open class noun extracted from the data set one or more APIs may be queried . A standard list of APIs may be queried for every data set or a specific list of APIs may be determined for each data set. For example a data set may be preprocessed to determine a best guess set of APIs to query . To determine the best guess various rules may be employed. One rule may be to analyze the data set of open class nouns for average word length phrase length common words used capitalization used etc. Based upon this analysis a set of APIs may be determined to query . For example if the words drive street road are commonly used an API related to addresses may be queried . Similarly an EKB may be used to discover the classification of various entries in the data set. Based upon the classifications determined based upon the EKB similar APIs may be determined for querying . For example if searching and EKB results in the classifications first name last name and city name being associated with open class nouns in the data set then APIs corresponding to persons names and city names may be queried .

The one or more APIs may be queried for each open class noun in the data set. If it is determined that there are additional open class nouns the APIs are queried until each open class noun in the data set has been queried for each API. Based upon the results of the querying a confidence score may be derived . The confidence score may indicate the results of the querying of each open class noun in the data set. To derive the confidence score the results of the individual queries may be tallied into a single confidence score. For example as a new classification type e.g. first name last name is determined during the querying a value is assigned to that classification type. Initially the value may be 1 N where N is the total number to open class nouns in the data set. For each open class noun classified in that classification type the value is incremented e.g. 2 N . . . 3 N . . . 4 N . Once each open class noun has been queried the confidence score may be derived by converting each classification type value into a decimal number.

For example if a data set has 100 open class nouns each classification type value will be X 100 where X is the total number of open class nouns in the set determined to be of that classification type. Thus the results of the querying may be 95 100 are first names 8 100 are last names and 4 100 are city names. In this example if 95 100 of the open class nouns in the data set were classified as first names 8 100 were classified as last names and 4 100 were classified as city names the confidence score may be derived as 0.95 0.08 0.04 first names last names city names with the highest likelihood the data set contains first names. Thus the confidence score may be a product of the likelihood that each open class noun in the data set belongs to a specific classification. To continue the above example based upon the confidence score of 0.95 0.08 0.04 first names last names city names there may be a 95 likelihood that the data set is first names an 8 likelihood that the data set is last names and a 4 likelihood that the data set is city names.

It should be noted that a single open class noun may have multiple classifications. For example Scott may be classified as a first name last name and city name. Thus the total confidence score for a data set may not necessarily add up to 100 but instead may be less than equal to or greater than 100 . illustrates additional details related to the derivation and interpretation of the confidence score.

Based upon the derived confidence score a semantic classification may be determined for the data set. To determine the classification the derived confidence score may be analyzed and broken into individual classification types and associated likelihood values. The classification type with the highest likelihood value may be determined to be the correct classification for the data set. To continue the above example based upon the confidence score of 0.95 0.08 0.04 first names last names city names the associated data set may be semantically classified First Names as first names has the highest individual portion or percentage value on the confidence score.

It should be noted that additional techniques may be used to determine the classification for the data set. For example the confidence score may be modified or adjusted to assign individual confidence values to each possible classification based upon the derived confidence score. These confidence values may then be compared to a confidence value threshold. For example a single classification may have a confidence value of 0.90 or higher to be determined as a potential classification for the data set. To continue the above example first names has an individual confidence value of 0.95 and thus may be determined as the classification for the data set. Additional techniques for determining based upon known classification techniques or heuristics may also be used.

One exemplary implementation of the above discussed process may be classifying a data set of 400 phrases each having a length of 2 5 words. A sample portion of the data set may include Miles From Nowhere Catcher in the Rye The Vagrants Fahrenheit 451 The Lost City Lord of the Flies All You Need is Love . . . . A rule set may preprocess the data set to perform the best guess analysis based upon various attributes of the data set entries such as phrase length. Based upon the preprocessing it may be determined the data set is likely a list of titles.

Optionally a query may be made against an EKB such a DBpedia to determine that some of the data set entries are book titles song titles and movie titles. For example a DBpedia query for Catcher in the Rye returns a classification of book title. However a DBquery for The Lost City returns both book title and movie title requiring further disambiguation. Similarly a DBpedia query for All You Need is Love returns the classification song title.

Based upon the best guess preprocessing a query may be limited to APIs that provide one or more of book titles movie titles and song titles. A result count of positive hits is returned and monitored for each API query and stored as a partial confidence score. Once each query is performed the confidence score for the complete data set is derived. Based upon the queries it is determined that 98 of the open class nouns in the data set are book titles 40 are movie titles and 3 are song titles. Therefore a semantic classification of book title may be determined with a high confidence level for this data set. Optionally the confidence score of 0.98 0.40 0.03 book titles movie titles song titles may be retained for the data set for later review and or further analysis.

The user interface may also include an instance browser showing information specific to the queried open class noun. In this example Effective Java has returned the class Book Title. Additionally a list of asserted types may be included. The asserted types list provides additional information related to the query that may be used to infer additional information about the queried open class noun. Such assertions may be gathered via the same or a related API that provides querying for any tags or sub classifications associated with the open class noun. In this example based upon the query and returned results one may infer that Effective Java is a non fiction computer programming book.

The user interface may include additional features such as an editor for modifying the query various tabs for viewing additional information a listing of the APIs queried and any additional information relevant to the query and results.

An exemplary implementation of the open class noun classification system as described above may be integrated with existing semantic classification system functioning as a heuristic for semantically classifying a data set of open class nouns. For example in a digital content marketplace such as the XMPie marketplace a large amount of data contained in variable data campaigns may be stored as relatively unsorted data. The variable data campaigns may be previously developed by users website content developers graphical artists and or others who have created one or more electronic documents incorporating variable data. A new user to the marketplace may wish to purchase and distribute a variable data campaign. An existing campaign may satisfy any requirements the new user may have. However because the variable data within the campaign is unsorted the new user may not be able to identify the variable data campaign. Thus the user may need to create an entirely new variable data campaign. This may cost the new user both time and money that would be ultimately saved if the previously created variable data campaigns were sorted and classified.

Various new or existing classification systems may be used to semantically classify some types of variable data in variable data campaigns using heuristics but any data sets containing open class nouns may be improperly or ambiguously classified. However the processes described and taught herein may be applied to the variable data campaign classification system such that any data sets of open class nouns may also be quickly and efficiently classified and organized for searching.

The variable data campaign classification system user feedback interface and various software modules described above may be presented on a display based on software modules including computer readable instructions that are stored on a computer readable medium such as a hard drive disk memory card USB drive or other recording medium. depicts a block diagram of exemplary internal hardware that may be used to contain or implement program instructions such as the process steps discussed above in reference to as well as a suitable processing and display devices to display the interface discussed above in reference to . A bus serves as the main information highway interconnecting the other illustrated components of the hardware. CPU is the central processing unit of the system performing calculations and logic operations required to execute a program. CPU alone or in conjunction with one or more of the other elements disclosed in is an exemplary processing device computing device or processor as such terms are used within this disclosure. Read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM constitute exemplary memory devices.

A controller interfaces with one or more optional memory devices to the system bus . These memory devices may include for example an external or internal DVD drive a CD ROM drive a hard drive flash memory a USB drive or the like. As indicated previously these various drives and controllers are optional devices. Additionally the memory devices may be configured to include individual files for storing any feedback information common files for storing groups of feedback information or one or more databases for storing the feedback information.

Program instructions software or interactive modules for providing the interface and performing any querying or analysis associated with one or more data sets may be stored in the ROM and or the RAM . Optionally the program instructions may be stored on a tangible computer readable medium such as a compact disk a digital disk flash memory a memory card a USB drive an optical disc storage medium such as a Blu ray disc and or other recording medium.

An optional display interface may permit information from the bus to be displayed on the display in audio visual graphic or alphanumeric format. Communication with external devices may occur using various communication ports . An exemplary communication port may be attached to a communications network such as the Internet or an intranet.

The hardware may also include an interface which allows for receipt of data from input devices such as a keyboard or other input device such as a mouse a joystick a touch screen a remote control a pointing device a video input device and or an audio input device.

Various of the above disclosed and other features and functions or alternatives thereof may be combined into many other different systems or applications. Various presently unforeseen or unanticipated alternatives modifications variations or improvements therein may be subsequently made by those skilled in the art each of which is also intended to be encompassed by the disclosed embodiments.

