---

title: Techniques for displaying third party content
abstract: Systems and methods for managing third party content are described. In one embodiment, the method includes storing information for a plurality of third party content elements that were selected by a user for display with a page of content, in response to a user request corresponding to a page associated with one of the plurality of third party content elements specified by the stored information, rendering for display on the page a third party content module associated with the third party content element, and, in response to a user modification of the third party content module, storing information corresponding to the user modification. The modified content module is rendered for display on a page of content according to the stored information. The user has the ability to customize and control the parameters of content modules selected by the user to be rendered on the accessed page.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09418388&OS=09418388&RS=09418388
owner: IMDb.com, Inc.
number: 09418388
owner_city: Seattle
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100908
---
As an ever increasing amount of information is available electronically techniques for displaying this information in ways that are useful and intuitive to a user are becoming more complex. Currently instances of electronic content such as Web pages available to a user are largely limited to single site and single source content. Normally users have to navigate away from the currently visited Web page in order to access content provided by other sites such as a user s favorite Web site. The ways of mixing content from popular or favorite sites on the same page have not been available to users as an exciting or useful way to experience the Web. When third party content e.g. advertisements buttons pictures logos and the like is displayed on a Web page visited by a user the user normally may have control over the configuration size and or type of the third party content displayed on the currently visited Web page. The user likewise will not have control over how many third party provided content elements are displayed on the viewed Web page or which third parties are allowed to present their content. Accordingly the third party content may occupy a substantial amount of real estate of a visited Web page which may not be desirable.

Systems and methods are presented for integrating multiple types or sources of content such as third party content on an otherwise single site Web page so as to preserve the traditional browsing experience. This can include for example displaying third party content modules widgets scripts or other grouping of content that can reside as sidebars overlays buttons frames modal windows or other auxiliaries to the primary content similar to a head up display HUD in which the primary site s content occupies the bulk of the viewing field. These third party modules may be user configurable e.g. they may be reordered may occupy different slots on a Web page may have different formats and or may be enabled or disabled by the user. Integration techniques disclosed herein preserve the traditional browsing experience for single site Web pages source pages while allowing for third party content modules to execute over the currently viewed page. In general a single site Web page as used herein refers to a page of content that includes main or body content that is provided from a single source typically a provider of the page but that may include secondary content from other sources such as advertising from advertisers or other supplemental content from the same or other third party providers.

Third party content modules may be configured to interact with a source page if allowed by one or more policies of the source page. This may involve collecting information about the source page or the user interaction with the page and sending the information to third party servers. The level of interaction and the selection of the third party content modules may be controlled by the source page content provider a user of the source page or any other appropriate entity. The source page content provider may control e.g. allow disallow or limit the integration and or define the parameters of the third party modules that can appear on the source page. A user may have control over enablement or disablement of the third party content modules that were allowed to integrate with the source page. In the latter case the module may not have any interactions with the source page. A layout size location on the page and functionality of a third party content module may also be controlled by a user depending on his her preferences. In one embodiment a user may access a content module by clicking on a third party content module element displayed on the Web page.

Various techniques are disclosed herein which may be used to implement the third party content integration with a source Web site or other such electronic grouping or display of content. For example third party content providers may develop software applications such as JavaScript libraries for their content modules which may be embedded by the source site in its pages. A framework may be developed to provide the user control and layout features of the third party content module components as discussed herein. In one embodiment this could be accomplished in a JavaScript implementation. In another embodiment special browser support could be added via a plug in. In this case a source site would not have to embed a trusted script such as JavaScript from each third party content module. In yet another embodiment the source Web site providers may develop their own content modules associated with third party content and render the modules to a user. The user is provided with an ability to control and customize an interface of the accessed Web site by for example allowing certain content modules to be displayed configuring the displayed content modules according to the user s preferences and using the stored user s preferences for displaying the selected and customized content modules in future browser sessions.

The illustrative environment includes at least one application server and a data store . It should be understood that there can be several application servers layers or other elements processes or components which may be chained or otherwise configured which can interact to perform tasks such as obtaining data from an appropriate data store. As used herein the term data store refers to any device or combination of devices capable of storing accessing and retrieving data which may include any combination and number of data servers databases data storage devices and data storage media in any standard distributed or clustered environment. The application server can include any appropriate hardware and software for integrating with the data store as needed to execute aspects of one or more applications for the client device handling a majority of the data access and business logic for an application. The application server provides access control services in cooperation with the data store and is able to generate content such as text graphics audio and or video to be transferred to a viewer which may be served to the viewer by the Web server in the form of HTML XML or another appropriate structured language in this example. The handling of all requests and responses as well as the delivery of content between the client device and the application server can be handled by the Web server. It should be understood that the Web and application servers are not required and are merely example components as structured code discussed herein can be executed on any appropriate device or host machine as discussed elsewhere herein.

The data store can include several separate data tables databases or other data storage mechanisms and media for storing data relating to a particular aspect. For example the data store illustrated includes mechanisms for storing production data and user information which can be used to serve content for the production side. The data store also is shown to include a mechanism for storing log data which can be used for reporting generating statistics and other such purposes. It should be understood that there can be many other aspects that may need to be stored in the data store such as for page image information and access right information which can be stored in any of the above listed mechanisms as appropriate or in additional mechanisms in the data store . The data store is operable through logic associated therewith to receive instructions from the application server and obtain update or otherwise process data in response thereto. In one example a viewer might submit a search request for a certain type of item. In this case the data store might access the user information to verify the identity of the viewer and can access the catalog detail information to obtain information about items of that type. The information then can be returned to the viewer such as in a results listing on a Web page that the viewer is able to view via a browser on the user device . Information for a particular item of interest can be viewed in a dedicated page or window of the browser.

Each server typically will include an operating system that provides executable program instructions for the general administration and operation of that server and typically will include a computer readable medium storing instructions that when executed by a processor of the server allow the server to perform its intended functions. Suitable implementations for the operating system and general functionality of the servers are known or commercially available and are readily implemented by persons having ordinary skill in the art particularly in light of the disclosure herein.

The environment in one embodiment is a distributed computing environment utilizing several computer systems and components that are interconnected via communication links using one or more computer networks or direct connections. However it will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art that such a system could operate equally well in a system having fewer or a greater number of components than are illustrated in . Thus the depiction of the system in should be taken as being illustrative in nature and not limiting to the scope of the disclosure.

In an embodiment users may access content provided by content providers in order to consume content search for information purchase items offered for consumption or sale engage in social networking and the like. As shown in the environment includes an electronic entity . The electronic entity for example may operate a Web site that may be rendered to the client device via a browser . The electronic entity may also operate systems such as those described above in connection with that enable users to access Web content.

The electronic entity may also operate affiliate with or associate with one or more content providers. In an embodiment the content providers not shown may offer content for a Web site operated by the electronic entity . As discussed above the electronic entity may affiliate with content providers and Web sites in a number of different ways. For example the electronic entity may own content providers and Web sites . In an embodiment the environment may also include one or more affiliate or third party content providers . A third party provider may be for example an entity that offers content that the electronic entity may allow for placement on a Web site along with the content . Third party content providers may cooperate with the electronic entity in various ways. In one embodiment the content providers may operate their own Web sites and provide content from or access to their Web sites through a Web site operated by the electronic entity by placing their own content modules on a Web site as described above. Third party content providers may also utilize various systems such as those described above in connection with that enable users to access Web content and other systems.

In an embodiment the environment includes components and instructions for generating one or more Web sites . One or more of the Web sites may be operated by the electronic entity although they need not be. The Web sites may offer various types of content such as news video shopping or other services search engine services audio social networking services and the like. While the example environment shows Web sites for the purpose of illustration it should be understood that any type of content provider may be included in the environment or variations thereof. For example content may be provided in various ways such as through an application interface or through other mechanisms that may not be properly classified as Web sites. As noted in an embodiment the users may interact with content from the various entities such as by viewing content from the entities consuming items from the entities and the like.

In one embodiment a third party content provider Web server having a domain external to the electronic entity may serve content modules associated with a Web site to a client device through a network . The entity that provides the Web site with content may allow a content module a feature or any other type of a Web element representing a third party Web site to be displayed on the Web site and rendered to the client device . For example the entity may render a button a side bar an overlay or any other feature that when accessed by a user on the client device may enable one or more features pertaining to the content rendered by the third party Web site for example a chat a social bar and the like. A content module may be rendered in a meta markup language such as HTML XML XHTML or the like.

The third party content provider through its Web server may provide features links or elements needed to operate a module rendered by the entity on the Web site as will be discussed below in greater detail. As described above a content module may include but is not limited to a sidebar an overlay a button a widget or other auxiliary to the primary content of the Web site . A content module may be implemented for example in an iFrame sourcing to a third party Web site and used to load the module from the third party Web site. In another embodiment the entity may render a third party content module using its own Web server while requesting content for the module from the third party Web server. In yet another embodiment the entity may import the third party s library e.g. JavaScript library and execute the script on the Web site . In yet another embodiment the script may be run on the Web site as a local copy of the script maintained by the third party content provider. The user of the client device may have control over the configuration location and functionalities of the content module depending on the user s preferences. The details of the integration of a third party content module with a Web site operated by the entity will be discussed below in reference to .

At block one or more content elements associated with a third party are rendered on the Web site. These elements may be rendered as requested by a user. Alternatively a default subset of elements may be rendered. The content element may be any Web based element representing third party content e.g. a button a logo a symbol a window etc. At the decision block it is determined whether a user accessed the content element. The user may access a content element in a number of different ways including but not limited to clicking highlighting or otherwise marking the element. If at block the determination is made that the user selected the content element the third party content module associated with the element is rendered on the Web site at block . Once displayed the user may access or select one or more elements of the content module e.g. click mark etc. in order to access third party content. The rendering of the third party content may be accomplished in a number of different ways. In one embodiment the content may be rendered via a trusted window e.g. an iFrame sourced to a third party server. In some embodiments the third party content may reside on the third party server and be loaded to the Web site upon selection of the content element. In another embodiment as described above the content module may be operated by the Web site operator. When the user accesses the content module a request may be sent to a server affiliated with the third party content provider for example a Representational State Transfer REST server which facilitates rendering the content on the Web site. The position of the content module displayed upon initial rendering on the Web site may be configured by either the third party content provider or the entity rendering the Web site. By way of example only a third party content provider may configure its content module to be initially displayed as a horizontal tool bar along the bottom of the Web site a vertical tool bar along either the left or right side of the Web site and so on. The entity rendering the Web site may similarly configure the content module to initially render in a particular region of the Web site.

In some embodiments a user may reposition a content module within the Web site after the module is initially rendered. For example a user may want to move the initially rendered content module to another region of the Web site e.g. move the module from the bottom of the screen to the top of the screen and or modify the configuration of the content module e.g. rearrange elements within the module . At decision block it is determined whether the user requested to change the position and or configuration of the rendered content module. If such request is received at block the configuration and or position of the content module is changed modified per user s request. The configuration of the content module may include a number of different parameters defining for example a location of the content module on the Web page a shape of the module a size of the module and a layout of the elements within the module. Once the user finishes accessing third party content and if needed modifying the content module the user may decide to turn off the content module if the module is no longer needed in the current session. At decision block it is determined whether a user requested to turn off the content module. If such request has been submitted at block the specific content module is not rendered upon a subsequent visit to the Web site and the user defined parameters of the content module i.e. user preferences are stored for future sessions. As described above any Web site visited by the user in future sessions may display the user configured content module if the Web site provider permits the third party content associated with the module. The process then ends.

At block the generated event is sent to a third party server associated with the third party content provider which at block renders a corresponding component to a second user e.g. a friend of the first user who is viewing the same content. Registering the received event and rendering the corresponding content component may be implemented in a number of different ways for example through a polling loop executed on the second user s computing device. The received event may contain information about the accessed content component e.g. identify the content component as a Document Object Model DOM component . The polling component may then find a corresponding content component in the DOM and mark the content component e.g. by coloring highlighting selecting or providing any other visual effect . The corresponding component is then rendered to the second user who therefore is kept abreast of the first user s activities associated with the viewed content. The process then ends. It is to be understood that the process described above may include tracking activities of not just one but multiple users members of the first user s Web community who happen to access the same third party content at the same time as the first user.

As discussed above the various embodiments can be implemented in a wide variety of operating environments which in some cases can include one or more client computers computing devices or processing devices which can be used to operate any of a number of applications. Client devices can include any of a number of general purpose personal computers such as desktop or laptop computers running a standard operating system as well as cellular wireless and handheld devices running mobile software and capable of supporting a number of networking and messaging protocols. Such a system also can include a number of workstations running any of a variety of commercially available operating systems and other known applications for purposes such as development and database management. These devices also can include other electronic devices such as dummy terminals thin clients gaming systems and other devices capable of communicating via a network.

Various aspects also can be implemented as part of at least one service or Web service such as may be part of a service oriented architecture. Services such as Web services can communicate using any appropriate type of messaging such as by using messages in extensible markup language XML format and exchanged using an appropriate protocol such as SOAP derived from the Simple Object Access Protocol . Processes provided or executed by such services can be written in any appropriate language such as the Web Services Description Language WSDL . Using a language such as WSDL allows for functionality such as the automated generation of client side code in various SOAP frameworks.

Most embodiments utilize at least one network that would be familiar to those skilled in the art for supporting communications using any of a variety of commercially available protocols such as TCP IP OSI FTP UPnP NFS CIFS and AppleTalk. The network can be for example a local area network a wide area network a virtual private network the Internet an intranet an extranet a public switched telephone network an infrared network a wireless network and any combination thereof.

In embodiments utilizing a Web server the Web server can run any of a variety of server or mid tier applications including HTTP servers FTP servers CGI servers data servers Java servers and business application servers. The server s also may be capable of executing programs or scripts in response to requests from client devices such as by executing one or more Web applications that may be implemented as one or more scripts or programs written in any programming language such as Java C C or C or any scripting language such as Perl Python or TCL as well as combinations thereof. The server s may also include database servers including without limitation those commercially available from Oracle Microsoft Sybase and IBM .

The environment can include a variety of data stores and other memory and storage media as discussed above. These can reside in a variety of locations such as on a storage medium local to and or resident in one or more of the computers or remote from any or all of the computers across the network. In a particular set of embodiments the information may reside in a storage area network SAN familiar to those skilled in the art. Similarly any necessary files for performing the functions attributed to the computers servers or other network devices may be stored locally and or remotely as appropriate. Where a system includes computerized devices each such device can include hardware elements that may be electrically coupled via a bus the elements including for example at least one central processing unit CPU at least one input device e.g. a mouse keyboard controller touch screen or keypad and at least one output device e.g. a display device printer or speaker . Such a system may also include one or more storage devices such as disk drives optical storage devices and solid state storage devices such as random access memory RAM or read only memory ROM as well as removable media devices memory cards flash cards and the like.

Such devices also can include a computer readable storage media reader a communications device e.g. a modem a network card wireless or wired an infrared communication device and working memory as described above. The computer readable storage media reader can be connected with or configured to receive a computer readable storage medium representing remote local fixed and or removable storage devices as well as storage media for temporarily and or more permanently containing storing transmitting and retrieving computer readable information. The system and various devices also typically will include a number of software applications modules services or other elements located within at least one working memory device including an operating system and application programs such as a client application or Web browser. It should be appreciated that alternate embodiments may have numerous variations from that described above. For example customized hardware might also be used and or particular elements might be implemented in hardware software including portable software such as applets or both. Further connection to other computing devices such as network input output devices may be employed.

Storage media and computer readable media for containing code or portions of code can include any appropriate media known or used in the art including storage media and communication media such as but not limited to volatile and non volatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage and or transmission of information such as computer readable instructions data structures program modules or other data including RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM digital versatile disk DVD or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by the system device. Based on the disclosure and teachings provided herein a person of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate other ways and or methods to implement the various embodiments.

The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than a restrictive sense. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereunto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the present disclosure as set forth in the claims.

