---

title: High-frequency, hexapod six degree-of-freedom shaker
abstract: A shaker for enabling the testing of gyros and/or other devices for performance under realistic 6DOF motions. The shaker may be implemented as a hexapod, comprising a plate and six individually, simultaneously, and real-time controllable strut assemblies that are capable of extending and contracting linearly. The strut assemblies may comprise high-precision, linear electromagnetic actuators. The strut assemblies may also comprise high-precision non-contact sensors to sense the extension/contraction of the strut assemblies along their stroke length. In addition, the strut assemblies may comprise, at each end thereof, stiff, bendable flexures to attain the repeatable and linear motion required. The controller preferably has a control bandwidth of 1000 Hz or more, so that the motion of the plate can be precisely controlled to realize realistic 6DOF motions.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08453512&OS=08453512&RS=08453512
owner: The Aerospace Corporation
number: 08453512
owner_city: El Segundo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100617
---
This invention was made with government support under Contract No. FA8802 04 C 0001 awarded by the Department of the Air Force. The government has certain rights in the invention.

State of the art gyroscopes gyros for space and other applications require realistic laboratory environments to test and characterize performance. Realistic environments cover a range of frequencies consistent with control moment gyros gimbals motors thruster events etc. They require controlled repeatable mechanical excitation of the gyro over six degrees of freedom 6DOF simultaneously just as the device would be exposed to in space. In particular one popular type of gyro for space applications are fiber optic gyros FOGs which have recently been found to be susceptible to low level vibration. This effect manifests itself as abrupt shifts in bias which can be detrimental to operations. This phenomenon was not identified using standard gyro test techniques and has been shown to be extremely nonlinear.

In one general aspect the present invention is directed to a shaker for enabling the testing of gyros and or other devices for performance under realistic 6DOF motions e.g. spacecraft motions. In various embodiments the shaker may be implemented as a hexapod comprising of a top plate and six 6 individually and simultaneously controllable strut assemblies that are capable of extending and contracting linearly. The strut assemblies can be individually and simultaneously controlled by a closed loop programmable controller to enable the plate to move linearly in all three directions and or to rotate about all three axes. The strut assemblies may comprise high precision linear electromagnetic actuators such as voice coil actuators. The strut assemblies may also comprise high precision non contact sensors to sense the extension contraction of the strut assemblies along their stroke length. In addition the strut assemblies may comprise at each end thereof stiff bendable flexures to attain the repeatable and linear motion required. The controller preferably has a control bandwidth of 1000 Hz or more so that the motion of the plate can be precisely controlled e.g. 20 nm or less resolution at high frequencies such as the high frequencies seen in known spacecraft environments.

By individually and simultaneously controlling the stroke position of each of the strut assemblies along their stroke length the real time closed loop controller can cause the top plate to realize a desired motion path with six degrees of freedom and with high resolution within 20 nm or less and preferably within 10 nm . Rotational motion is enabled for example by commanding different strut lengths simultaneously. As explained further below the real time closed loop controller may have a control bandwidth greater than or equal to 1000 Hz and preferably greater than 1500 Hz. That way the motion of the plate can be precisely controlled e.g. 10 nm resolution to realize realistic 6DOF spacecraft motions. Consequently the shaker can be used to test the response of sensors placed on the top plate such as a FOG for example. For example the objective of the shaker may be to transmit power to a unit under test e.g. a FOG across a set of discrete frequencies for all six DOFs simultaneously. shows the required linear acceleration spectrum for the z axis for two different motion programs there are three plots in because one of the programs had two profiles denoted A and B respectively .

As shown in the example of each strut assembly may have a lower end connected to a base or foot by a lower flexure . In addition pairs of strut assemblies may be connected respectively by upper flexures to upper bipod blocks . The upper bipod blocks in turn are connected to the plate such as a lower surface thereof to thereby connect the strut assemblies to the plate . For example as shown in the example of strut assemblies may be mounted to upper bipod block strut assemblies may be mounted to upper bipod block and strut assemblies may be mounted to upper bipod block

As mentioned above each strut assembly may comprise i a linear actuator for causing the strut assembly to extend or contract along a linear stroke length and ii one or more position sensors that measure the position e.g. linear displacement of the strut along the linear stroke length. Preferably in order to achieve the desired high control bandwidths e.g. greater than or equal to 1000 Hz the linear actuator comprises an electromagnetic actuator such as a voice coil actuator VCA and the position sensor s comprises a high precision non contact position sensor to sense the linear position of the strut assembly along its stroke length. The position sensors may have a resolution of for example 2 nm or less and preferably 1 nm or less. show aspects of a strut assembly that comprises a VCA and two non contact position sensors according to various embodiments of the present invention is a diagram of an assembled strut assembly is a side view of the strut assembly is an exploded view of the strut assembly and is a cross sectional view of the voice coil actuator VCA . Preferably each of the strut assemblies is identically constructed.

As shown in the VCA of the strut assembly may comprise an upper cap at an upper end of the VCA and a lower cap at a lower end of the VCA . The end caps may be made from metal such as stainless steel for example. The upper flexure may be connected to e.g. screwed into the upper cap of the VCA and the lower flexure may be connected to e.g. screwed into the lower cap of the VCA . and A B are diagrams of the upper and lower flexures respectively according to various embodiments. Preferably each of the upper flexures are identical and each of the lower flexures are identical. In addition the upper flexures and the lower flexures preferably comprise metal such as stainless steel. As shown in the upper flexure comprises a first threaded end portion that may be connected to the upper cap of the VCA . As shown in an upper threaded adapter may be used to connect the first threaded end portion of the upper flexure to the upper cap of the VCA . The upper flexure also comprises a second threaded end portion that is used to bolt the upper flexure to the upper bipod block for the strut assembly . In between the first and second threaded end portions the flexure may comprise a thick portion and a flexible stiff thinner stem portion the stem portion capable of being repeatedly flexed and bent due to extension contraction of the strut assembly . Preferably the flexible stem portion is made of a flexible metal with the stem portion having a circular cross section along the length thereof. The diameter of the stem portion may be uniform along its length or the diameter of the stem portion may vary along its length e.g. the stem portion may have a parabolic longitudinal cross section . Preferably at its thinnest the stem portion has a diameter of inch or less although the thickness and taper of the stem portion may vary in other embodiments.

The lower flexure as shown in may comprise a first threaded portion that is connected to the lower cap of the VCA . As shown in a lower threaded adapter may be used to connect the first threaded end portion of the lower flexure to the lower cap of the VCA . The lower flexure also comprises a second end portion that is connected to the base for the strut assembly . In between the first and second end portions the lower flexure comprises a thick portion and a thinner flexible stem portion that is capable of being repeatedly flexed and bent due to extension contraction of the strut assembly . The flexible stem portion of the lower flexure may be similar in construction to the stem portion of the upper flexure .

As shown in the VCA may comprise a non commutated moving magnet type linear VCA that comprises an inner magnet and an outer housing . The inner magnet moves linearly within the outer housing along a stroke length based on current in a coil not shown in the outer housing surrounding the inner magnet . The stroke length may be less than one 1 inch preferably less than 0.20 inches and more preferably less than 0.10 inches such as 0.06 inches in various embodiments. The radial clearance between the inner magnet and the outer housing preferably is on the order of hundredths of inches such as 0.01 inches in various embodiments. The coil may be energized with an analog strut control signal from the controller where the magnitude and polarity of the voltage of the analog extension control signal determines the extent of extension or contraction of the strut assembly e.g. whether the inner magnet linearly translates out of the housing extension or whether the inner magnet linearly translates into the housing contraction . The controller may comprise for example a digital to analog converter DAC to convert a digital strut extension control signal determined by the controller based on feedback from the position sensors to analog for supplying to and controlling the VCA . The sensor electronics units may comprise amplifiers for amplifying the analog control signals for the different strut assemblies . The DACs for converting the digital strut extension control signals to analog may also be part of the sensor electronics units . In other embodiments different types of linear electromagnetic actuators may be used such as for example moving coil linear VCAs etc.

The strut assembly may also comprise one or more position sensors for sensing the position of the strut assembly along its stroke length e.g. the extent to which the inner magnet of the VCA is extended from or contracted into the outer housing . Outputs of the one or more position sensors are input as feedback to the controller which determines the strut extension control signal for the VCA therefrom. Preferably the one or more position sensors are non contact high precision e.g. 2 nm resolution or better position sensors such as eddy current sensors capacitive sensors optical encoders or any other suitable type of non contact high precision position sensor. In the embodiment shown in the strut assembly comprises two 2 eddy current non contact position sensors . Position sensor is attached e.g. screwed into to a lower end cap and moves with the inner magnet of the VCA. The position sensor measures its distance from an electrically conductive e.g. aluminum alloy target . The target may be positioned between the lower cap and the outer housing of the VCA . Consequently when the VCA is actuated there is relative linear movement between the position sensor and the target with the linear distance between the position sensor and the upper target being sensed by the position sensor and output to the controller . The particular sensor used in this embodiment is a differential sensor and so the strut assembly requires a second position sensor which senses the relative linear movement between the position sensor and another electrically conductive e.g. aluminum alloy target that is positioned between the upper cap and the VCA as shown in . In various embodiments dynamic differential sensing DDS eddy current position sensors from Blue Line Engineering Inc. Colorado Springs Colo. may be used for the positions sensors . In other embodiments Mercury II optical encoders from MicroE Systems Bedford Mass. may be used for the position sensors.

As shown in in various embodiments the strut assembly may comprise various other components for assembling the strut assembly such as and including upper and lower triangular spacers upper and lower retainer rings upper and lower flexure leaves and upper and lower circular spacers . The various components of the strut assembly may be fastened and assembled with screws as shown in in various embodiments.

The real time programmable controller receives the inputs from the position sensor s of the strut assemblies and based thereon computes respective strut extension control signals for each of the strut assemblies in a closed loop fashion to thereby control the extension contraction of the strut assemblies along their respective stroke lengths to thereby control the 6DOF motion of the shaker top plate . The controller may be implemented with one or more programmable circuits such as for example one or more high performance field programmable gate arrays FPGA . In other embodiments other programmable circuits may be used such as a complex programmable logic device CPLD an application specific integrated circuit ASIC a programmable system on chip SOC a microcontroller a programmable microprocessor etc. The desired motion path may be programmed into the controller .

The controller operates in real time with a relatively high closed loop control bandwidth e.g. greater than 1000 Hz and preferably greater than 1500 Hz so that the motion of the top plate can be controlled with high resolution e.g. within 20 nm or less and preferably within 10 nm . A difficulty in realizing such a controller is that there is strong dynamic cross coupling in the strut assemblies especially for strut assemblies connected to the same upper bipod block such as struts and connected to upper bipod block . For example the position sensors of one strut assembly are sensitive to actuation of other strut assemblies . In various embodiments the controller may be designed using H or H infinity mixed sensitivity synthesis. More details about H methods used in control theory may be found in S. Skogestad and I. Postlethwaite 2nd ed. Wiley 2005 which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

The VCAs can be idealized as an inductor in series with a resistor driven by an input voltage V and a back EMF electromotive force term Kdot over x 

The structural model for the shaker may be obtained by finite element analysis. In one embodiment the finite element analysis may consist of 1 629 479 nodes and 996 670 elements. The structural model preferably includes almost all of the mechanical components as Well as the layers of adhesive e.g. epoxy used in construction of the top plate described further below . An example block diagram of the plant model for the shaker is shown in . This model has six inputs voltage commands to the VCAs and six outputs voltages read from the fine position sensors . The six linear VCAs were approximated as transconductive gains. The full structural plant may contain hundreds of modes many of them superfluous due to minimal mass participation or unobservability. A balanced truncation may be used to reduce the full plant down to a reasonable size. The number of states in the reduced model may be chosen to capture the major structural dynamics of the system. Further reduction may be necessary for the controller design.

The model discussed above and depicted in may be lumped into a transfer function matrix G s . The transfer function K s of the controller shown in must result in a stable closed loop system and preferably meets the desired performance objectives e.g. control bandwidth resolution . In one embodiment the H controller is designed using the following functions for the augmented plant where S s is the sensitivity function and is equivalent to the transfer function between a command input and the error signal which is the difference between the command input and the measured output. It also measures the response of the system to disturbance inputs. T s is the complementary sensitivity function because T s S s I identically. T s is also the closed loop transfer function matrix of the system.

The H controller may be determined by finding the controller K s that minimizes the infinity norm of the weighted augmented plant i.e. 

H design approaches have reached a state of maturity where turnkey tools exist for their design including a pair of MATLAB toolboxes. One of these the Robust Control Toolbox was used for this problem in an embodiment and it implements a set of state space formulae published in Keith Glover and John C. Doyle State space formulae for all stabilizing controllers that satisfy an h infinity norm bound and relations to risk sensitivity Systems Control Letters 11 167 172 1988 which is incorporated herein by reference. The designer need only to provide weighting functions. In various embodiments weighting the complementary sensitivity T s may result in prohibitively high control effort so R s may be weighted instead. Weighting R s preferably keeps the control effort at reasonable levels and below the saturation limits of the amplifiers.

A first order weighting function can be obtained by using a Robust control toolbox function that returns 

In other embodiments a Linear Quadratic Controller LQC controller may be used. LQC is often referred to as Hbecause it uses a 2 norm as opposed to an infinity norm in defining its performance objective. The transfer function K s of the LQC controller minimizes the 2 norm of the transfer function between a set of disturbances and a specified output. The original formulation of the problem however was as a classical quadratic minimization problem of finding a control signal u that minimized the weighted quadratic cost function where x is determined by the linear system In various embodiments the solution turns out to be a series connection between a Kalman filter to estimate x and a Linear Quadratic Regulator solution to derive the control signal as a linear gain on this estimate The designer is left with the task of choosing weighting matrices for the optimization problem.

As shown in the top plate may be fabricated from multiple pieces including an upper plate and several plates making up the lower surface of the top plate . The multiple plates making up the lower surface may comprise three large plates three small plates and a middle plate . The upper bipod block connection surfaces may be positioned on the small plates respectively. The various pieces may be made from metal or hard plastic for example. The pieces may be connected by epoxy for example.

The following provides instructions for assembling the shaker according to various embodiments. First the three bipod assemblies may be constructed. An example of a completed bipod assembly is shown in . Each bipod assembly may include two strut assemblies so for six strut assembly shaker three such bipods may be used. The following describes how each of the bipod assemblies may be constructed. First the upper and lower flexures are connected to each of the VCAs . The flexures may be connected to the VCAs by screwing the flexures into end of the VCAs . Also adapters may be used. Next the position sensor may be threaded into the VCAs . The positions sensors are then calibrated.

Next the upper bipod block may be connected e.g. bolted to the top of a bipod A frame . Next the top ends of the strut assemblies may be inserted into the respective bores of the upper bipod block and tightened with nuts respectively. Next one of the bases not shown in is connected to the lower end lower flexure of one of the VCAs . Next one end of a baseframe may be connected e.g. bolted to the base that was connected to the VCA . Next the second base not shown in is connected to the second VCA and then the other end of the baseframe is connected to the second base . Next the baseframe is connected to the bipod A frame . The steps may be repeated to construct the other bipod assemblies .

In some embodiments emergency stop columns may be employed. For example in some embodiments three emergency stop columns may be used. The following describes embodiments of how to assemble one of the emergency stop columns. An example of an assembled emergency stop column is shown in . First a number at least three of tooling balls are inserted into the base of the hardstop base . Only two tooling balls are visible in . In addition one tooling ball may be inserted into the top of hardstop top . Next a rotary platform lab jack may be connected to the top of the hardstop base and the bottom of the hardstop top . The height of the rotary platform lab jack may then be adjusted as desired. The other emergency stop columns may be assembled in a similar manner.

With the bipod assemblies and the emergency stop columns assembled the final assembly for the shaker may be performed. First the bipod assemblies may be placed on a base platform as shown in the example of and the bases of the bipod assemblies may be bolted to the base platform . Next the top plate may be placed on and bolted to the three upper bipod blocks as shown in . Next the bolts connecting the three upper bipod blocks to the bipod A frames may be removed and the bolts connecting the bases to the baseframes may be removed. Next the baseframes may be removed from the base platform . Next the bipod A frames may be removed by for example slowly sliding them under the center of the top plate rotating them and then sliding them out through the strut assemblies . Next the three emergency stop columns may be slid under the three upper bipod blocks leaving a small clearance e.g. 0.05 inches between the tops of the emergency stop columns and the bottoms of the upper bipod blocks resulting in an assembly with emergency stops as shown in .

In various embodiments the shaker may be used to test the performance of a gyroscope e.g. a FOG in response to vibration imparted to the gyroscope by the motion of the shaker . For example in various embodiments a FOG under test may be positioned on the shaker top plate . The FOG may comprise a very long fiber optic fiber e.g. up to 2 km in length wound in a coil. The coil may have a diameter of eight to ten inches for example. Two light beams may travel along the fiber in opposite directions. Due to the Sagnac effect the beam travelling against the rotation of the coil experiences a slightly shorter path than the other beam. The resulting phase shift affects how the beams interfere with each other when they are combined. The intensity of the combined beam then depends on the angular frequency of the device. The FOG may be vibrated by movement of the shaker top plate caused by actuation of the strut assemblies along a controlled precise movement sequence to test the response of the FOG in response to such controlled precise movement sequence. The vibration movement may simulate spacecraft motion. The performance of the FOG may be measured in response to such vibration to determine the effect of the vibration on the performance of the FOG. This is done by looking for shifts in the bias of the FOG output. This can be done by inspection of the data. Such tell tale shifts are indicators of the onset of the low level vibe phenomenon seen in FOGs.

In various embodiments therefore the present invention is directed to a shaker that comprises a programmable control circuit a plate at least one base assembly and a plurality of strut assemblies connected between the plate and the at least one base assembly. Each strut assembly comprises an electromagnetic actuator for extending and contracting the strut assembly along a linear stroke length based on a control signal from the programmable control circuit a non contact position sensor for sensing a stroke position of the strut assembly along the linear stroke length wherein an output of the non contact position sensor is input to the programmable control circuit an upper bendable flexure that connects the strut assembly to the plate and a lower bendable flexure that connects the strut assembly to the at least one base assembly. The programmable control circuit has an output connected to each of the electromagnetic actuators of the plurality of strut assemblies for individually controlling extension and contraction of the plurality of strut assemblies along the linear stroke length based on the outputs from the non contact position sensors of the plurality of strut assemblies so that the plurality of strut assemblies individually follow a desired motion path wherein the programmable control circuit has a control bandwidth for the strut assemblies that is 1000 Hz or greater.

In various implementations six 6 strut assemblies are used. Also voice coil actuators may be used for the electromagnetic actuators. Also the non contact position sensors may comprise eddy current position sensors optical encoders or capacitive sensors for example. In addition the upper and or lower flexures may comprise a thin metallic stem portion having a radius of 0.20 inches or less. The upper and or lower flexures may also comprise a parabolic profile. The plate may comprise an upper flat surface and a lower surface connected to the plurality of strut assemblies.

In other embodiments the present invention is directed to a method of testing a fiber optic gyroscope. The method may comprise the steps of vibrating the fiber optic gyroscope with a shaker while the fiber optic gyroscope is positioned on a platform of the shaker and measuring performance of the fiber optic gyroscope in response to the vibrating. The shaker used for the testing may be as described above.

It should be appreciated that for conciseness and clarity spatial terms such as vertical horizontal up and down may be used herein with respect to the illustrated embodiments. However the disclose devices may be used in many orientations and positions and these terms are not intended to be limiting and absolute.

Although the various embodiments of the devices have been described herein in connection with certain disclosed embodiments many modifications and variations to those embodiments may be implemented. Also where materials are disclosed for certain components other materials may be used. Furthermore according to various embodiments a single component may be replaced by multiple components and multiple components may be replaced by a single component to perform a given function or functions. The foregoing description and following claims are intended to cover all such modification and variations.

Any patent publication or other disclosure material in whole or in part that is said to be incorporated by reference herein is incorporated herein only to the extent that the incorporated materials do not conflict with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth in this disclosure. As such and to the extent necessary the disclosure as explicitly set forth herein supersedes any conflicting material incorporated herein by reference. Any material or portion thereof that is said to be incorporated by reference herein but which conflicts with existing definitions statements or other disclosure material set forth herein will only be incorporated to the extent that no conflict arises between that incorporated material and the existing disclosure material.

