---

title: Centralized web-based software solution for search engine optimization
abstract: A system and method for modifying a parameter of a website in order to optimize an organic listing of the website at one or more search engines is described. Several embodiments include methods and systems for generating scored representations based upon different portions of data associated with a website, and then combining the scored representations to achieve a result. The result indicates a feature of the website that may be modified in order to optimize the organic ranking of the website at one or more search engines.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08473495&OS=08473495&RS=08473495
owner: Covario, Inc.
number: 08473495
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101216
---
This application is a continuation of and claims priority to U.S. Utility patent application Ser. No. 11 689 406 entitled Centralized Web Based Software Solution for Search Engine Optimization filed on Mar. 21 2007 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 877 392 which claims priority to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 868 702 entitled Centralized Web Based Software Solution for Search Engine Optimization filed on Dec. 5 2006 U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 868 705 entitled System and Method for Measuring the Effectiveness of an Online Advertisement Campaign filed on Dec. 5 2006 and to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 823 615 entitled System and Method for Aggregating Online Advertising Data and Providing Advertiser Services filed on Aug. 25 2006. This application is also related to U.S. Provisional Patent Application Ser. No. 60 778 594 entitled System and Method for Managing Network Based Advertising Conducted by Channel Partners of an Enterprise filed on Mar. 1 2006. The content of each of these applications is hereby incorporated by reference herein in its entirety for all purposes.

The invention relates to among other things methods and systems for optimization of websites sites with respect to organic search results generated by search engines in response to user queries. In particular but not by way of limitation aspects of the invention pertain to one or more centralized web based software solutions that evaluate sites and identify features of those sites that may be optimized.

With the growth of search engines business entities e.g. companies are dedicating greater portions of their marketing budgets to search engine optimization SEO initiatives. Typically SEO initiatives are driven by organic search results. In this regard the organic listing of a website site pertains to the relative ranking of that site in the algorithmic results generated by a particular search engine on the basis of particular keywords. This contrasts with sponsored or paid search results which are often listed proximate such organic search results and which list sites that have compensated the operator of the search engine for such listing. For various strategic reasons a business entity may drive content of a site it owns or operates so that the site appears in organic search results created by one or more search engines. With respect to measuring the effectiveness of an organic SEO initiative previously known technology does not enable an enterprise scale business entity e.g. an enterprise scale business entity to measure the effectiveness of organic search results associated with various search engines. Furthermore previously known technology does not effectively allow a business entity to audit its site s in an automated fashion using SEO principles across many sites and across many search engines in a way that reflects enterprise scale hierarchies of the business entity.

Exemplary embodiments of the invention that are shown in the drawings are summarized below. These and other embodiments are more fully described in the Detailed Description section. It is to be understood however that there is no intention to limit the invention to the forms described in this Summary of the Invention or in the Detailed Description. One skilled in the art can recognize that there are numerous modifications equivalents and alternative constructions that fall within the spirit and scope of the invention as expressed in the claims.

In one aspect the invention provides a system and method for modifying one or more features of a website in order to optimize the website in accordance with an organic listing of the website at one or more search engines. The inventive systems and methods include using scored representations to represent different portions of data associated with a website. Such data may include for example data related to the construction of the website and or data related to the traffic of one or more visitors to the website. The scored representations may be combined with each other e.g. by way of mathematical operations such as addition subtraction multiplication division weighting and averaging to achieve a result that indicates a feature of the website that may be modified to optimize a ranking of the website with respect to the organic listing of the website at one or more search engines.

In one embodiment for example the scored representations may be combined by generating a respective weight for each of the scored representations and then applying the respective weights to their respective scored representations. Upon applying the respective weights the weighted scored representations may be summed to achieve an intermediate result which is then divided by a sum of the respective weights to achieve the result that may be used to optimize a ranking of the website with respect to the organic listing of the website at one or more search engines.

The invention relates to among other things methods and systems for optimization of websites sites to enhance organic search results generated by search engines in response to user queries. Several embodiments of the invention pertain to one or more centralized web based software solutions that evaluate the effectiveness of search engine optimization SEO with respect to sites of a business entity. More specifically embodiments of the software solutions may evaluate adherence to SEO best practices track organic rankings of a site with respect to one or more search engines determine one or more particular improvements for enhancing the organic rankings of the site implement the one or more particular improvements and or develop one or more reports for display on a user interface.

Aspects of the invention are designed to operate on computer systems servers and or other like devices. While the details of embodiments of the invention may vary and still be within the scope of the claimed invention shows a block diagram depicting a typical network system for analyzing SEO effectiveness of a site in accordance with the invention. The network system is only one example of a suitable computing environment and is not intended to suggest any limitation as to the scope of use or functionality of the invention. Neither should the network system be interpreted as having any dependency or requirement relating to any one or combination of components illustrated in the exemplary network system .

Aspects of the invention may be described in the general context of computer executable instructions such as program modules being executed by a computer or server. Generally program modules include routines programs objects components data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. The invention may also be practiced in distributed computing environments where tasks are performed by remote processing devices that are linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment program modules may be located in both local and remote computer storage media including memory storage devices.

As is shown the network system includes a communications network such as the Internet or a private network capable of providing communication between devices at search engine s advertiser client s an SEO analysis system and third party user s described hereinafter. The devices of communicate with each other via any number of methods known in the art including wired and wireless communication pathways.

As shown in a search engine is accessible by a third party user a client and by the analysis system . The third party user may utilize any number of computing devices that are configured to retrieve information from the World Wide Web WWW such as a computer a personal digital assistant PDA a cell phone a television TV and other network communications enabled devices. The client is typically a business entity with one or more websites that are to be indexed by a search engine or a social network. The analysis system operates one or more servers capable of Internet based communication with the search engine and the client . As is discussed below the modeling system enables the client to model the effectiveness of an SEO initiative with respect to other SEO initiatives of the client or entities other than the clients . It is a feature of embodiments of the invention that these models enable the client to quickly identify marketing inefficiencies and or opportunities.

As those skilled in the art will appreciate various intermediary network routing and other elements between the communication network and the devices depicted in have been omitted for the sake of simplicity. Such intermediary elements may include for example the public switched telephone network PSTN gateways or other server devices and other network infrastructure provided by Internet service providers ISPs .

Attention is now drawn to which depicts one implementation of the analysis system . As is shown the analysis system may include but not by way of limitation a processor coupled to ROM the database a network connection and memory e.g. random access memory RAM .

The database is described herein in several implementations as hard disk drive for convenience but this is certainly not required and one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that other storage media may be utilized without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the database which is depicted for convenience as a single storage device may be realized by multiple e.g. distributed storage devices.

As shown a software solution includes a statistic generator module a report generator module and a user interface UI module all of which are implemented in software and are executed from the memory by the processor . The solution can be configured to operate on personal computers e.g. handheld notebook or desktop servers or any device capable of processing instructions embodied in executable code. Moreover one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that alternative embodiments which implement one or more components of the invention in hardware are well within the scope of the invention. Each module is associated with one or more functions of the invention describe herein.

In general terms the solution analyzes the construction of a website site for any possible aspect of that site s construction that would affect the site s organic ranking with respect to one or more search engines. The solution may make recommendations regarding improvements with respect to the site s construction. For example the solution may make recommendations based on the size of one or more webpages pages belonging to a site. Alternative recommendations may pertain to whether keywords are embedded in a page s title meta content and or headers. The solution may also make recommendations based on traffic referrals from search engines or traffic related data from directories and media outlets with respect to the organic ranking of a site. Media outlets may include data feeds results from an API call and imports of files received as reports offline i.e. not over the Internet that pertain to Internet traffic patterns and the like. One of skill in the art will appreciate alternative recommendations.

The modules operate in concert with each other to perform certain functions of the solution . By way of example depicts a process flow diagram illustrating steps taken by the solution in accordance with one embodiment of the invention. As shown in step the UI module may receive filtering and configuration parameters from a user e.g. a system administrator the client etc. . The UI module in step may export those parameters to the data retrieval module and or the reports module . The parameters may pertain to system administration parameters that apply to general implementations of the solution e.g. pre configured data collection or to user parameters that apply to specific implementations of the solution e.g. real time data collection . The data retrieval module in step uses the parameters to gather specific data defined at least in part by the parameters. The data retrieval module may gather data from one or more search engine files one or more content source files e.g. video image document and various other non html files one or more web files associated with the client s and or one or more web analytics system files. Upon gathering data the data retrieval module in step stores the data in the database . The reports module in step accesses the database to retrieve data associated with the parameters and then in step produces one or more types of reports. In step the generated reports are exported to the UI module which displays one or more visual representations of the reports to the user.

The data retrieval module gathers data for use by the reports module in generating one or more reports that are visually represented via the UI module . The data may be gathered from any number of sources including by way of example one or more search engines e.g. the search engines one or more content sources e.g. one or more videos images and or documents such as .pdf .doc and .xls files among others one or more sites associated with the client s and or one or more web analytics systems.

For example the data collected by the data retrieval module may include traffic levels from one or more search engines to one or more pages of one or more sites. Collected data may also include a number of pages for one or more sites that are indexed by one or more search engines or social networks and whether particular keywords exist in the indexing. The data retrieval module may also collect data associated with an indexed page s category title description and URL with respect to the one or more search engines or social networks. Alternatively or additionally data pertaining to whether one or more keywords are found in a page s title meta content and or headers may be collected. Collected data may also include a total number of pages for one or more sites and whether a sitemap link exists on the home page s of one or more sites.

The data retrieval module may alternatively or additionally collect page level data including URL character length page size keyword density existence of flash navigation existence of JavaScript navigation existence of page errors and existence of header tags among others. One of skill in the art will recognize that the data retrieval module may collect data specific to any type of page including preferred landing pages.

Additional data collected by the data retrieval module may include rankings or a number of ranked positions of one or more pages or sites with respect to one or more organic search engine results that are based on one or more search terms e.g. one or more keywords during one or more time periods.

One of skill in the art will appreciate alternative forms of data within both the scope and spirit of the invention that the data retrieval module may gather including additional web analytics data and or data accessible via application programming interfaces APIs associated with search engines.

Attention is drawn to the reports module of which functions to receive parameters from the UI module retrieve data from the database generate one or more reports based on the parameters and the retrieved data and then send the generated reports to the UI module . The generation of reports may be automated e.g. the generation of reports occurs at specified time intervals . When generating the reports the reports module may use one or more linear and or non linear combinations involving one or more scored representations to achieve quantifiable metrics pertinent to the client .

A combination may include by way of example a mathematical operation such as addition subtraction multiplication division weighting and averaging among others.

A scored representation may include but not by way of limitation an alphanumeric representation of data collected by the data retrieval module e.g. 0 1 2 . . . n and a b c . . . z and or an alphanumeric representation of a resultant value derived from one or more linear non linear combinations.

A quantifiable metric may be for example indicative of a parameter or feature of a site that may be modified to optimize the site with respect to an organic ranking of the site at a search engine. By way of example in one embodiment a feature may reflect an inefficient or an unrealized use of a keyword with respect of the site s paid or organic ranking in search engine results. In another embodiment a feature may reflect an undesired visitor traffic pattern on the site following a selection of the site by the visitor from a listing of search results at a search engine. In yet another embodiment a feature may reflect the existence of any number of aspects relating to a site including accessibility related aspects site construction related aspects and or search engine related aspects. For example accessibility related aspects may reflect whether a sitemap exists on the site s homepage and or whether the site exists in a Yahoo and or DMOZ i.e. the Open Directory Project directory. Site construction related aspects may reflect exceeded page sizes exceeded URL character lengths lack of flash navigation lack of header tags lack of a keyword in header tags lack of a keyword is a page title and or lack of a keyword in page meta content. Search engine related aspects may reflect a ranking of a site or pages of the site in organic and or paid search results of one or more search engines. One of skill in the art will appreciate various other features that may be indicated using configurable metrics including any of the Collected Data described below with respect to Table 1.

As stated above the reports module may employ computations that are configurable in terms of scored representations and combinations. For example a first scored representation may be weighted a second scored representation may be weighted the resultant weighted scored representations may be summed to achieve a summed result and the summed result may be divided by a sum of the weights. In such a case the reports module employs four combinations 1 the weighting of the first scored representation 2 the weighting of the second scored representation 3 the summing of the two weighted scored representations and 4 the dividing of the summed weighted scored representations by the sum of the weights. One of skill in the art will appreciate that any number of combinations of any number of scored representations may be used to quantify metrics pertinent to the client . By way of example Table 1 displays a listing of data scored representations of such data and weights applied to the scored representations.

As shown in Table 1 scored representation Vrepresents whether a sitemap link exists on the home page of a site. If a sitemap exists a scored representation of 1 is used to represent V. Otherwise if a sitemap does not exist a scored representation of 0 is used to represent V. In either case a weight w e.g. 5 may be applied to the scored representation.

The scored representations may be represented by any type of strength or grading indicator e.g. alphanumeric representations color coding . Each scored representation as well as combinations of scored representations may be weighted with adjustable weights e.g. rational numbers configurable via the UI module .

As shown in Table 2 combination Cis formed by dividing the sum of weighted scored representations wV wVand wVby the sum of the scored representations weights w wand w. One of skill in the art will appreciated that combinations may be used as scored representations in other combinations. For example combinations Cand Care used as scored representations in combination C and combination Cis used as a scored representation in combination C. One of skill in the art will also appreciate that combinations used as scored representations in other combinations may be weighted. For example weight wmay be any negative or positive rational number e.g. 5 weight wmay be any negative or positive rational number e.g. 3 and weight wmay be any negative or positive rational number e.g. 5 .

One of skill in the art will recognize alternative combinations than those shown in Table 2. Additionally one of skill in the art will appreciate that combinations may be configurable via the UI module in terms of scored representations weights and mathematical operations.

The UI module receives filtering and customization parameters from a user sends at least a portion of those parameters to the data retrieval module and or the reports module receives one or more reports from the reports module and displays one or more visual representations of the report s received from the reports module . The visual representations may be formed of alphanumerical color coded graphical image based or any other type of representation.

At least a portion of the filtering parameters received by the UI module define the scope of data collection by the data retrieval module and or data retrieval by the reports generator . For example the parameters may define the scope of data collection and or data retrieval in terms of one or more instances or periods of time e.g. date ranges triggered events . Alternatively or additionally the parameters may define the scope of data collection and or data retrieval in terms of the types of data previously described with respect to the data retrieval module .

At least a portion of the customization parameters define the report s generated by the reports module . The customization parameters allow a user to configure the visual representation of the generated reports. Customization parameters may include parameters similar to those described above with respect to the filtering parameters. Additionally the customization parameters may include drill down online analytical processing OLAP research and sorting parameters e.g. ascending or descending organization as well as display parameters e.g. numeric color coded or video image representation display parameters .

Attention is now drawn to which represent different user interfaces that the UI module may present to a user when representing client pertinent metrics developed during the linear and or non linear combinations described above with respect to the reports module . includes a table that displays client pertinent metrics with respect to multiple sites. displays a table that lists multiple sites and their rank with respect to multiple search engines. comprises multiple charts that illustrate client pertinent metrics with respect to a single site e.g. a site selected from the multiple sites listed in or .

One of skill in the art will appreciate alternative embodiments wherein all or a portion of the reports generated by the reports module are accessible by one or more computer systems visual displays external to the analysis system e.g. via triggered or automatic emailing or other methods within both the scope and spirit of the invention . One of skill in the art will also appreciate alternative embodiments in which the reports module develops one or more reports when triggering events occur i.e. under preconfigured circumstances .

Attention is now drawn to which depicts an exemplary implementation of the client . As is shown the client includes a server connected to a database both of which may communicate either directly or indirectly with the communication network . also includes a computing device system configured in accordance with one implementation of the invention. The computing device may include but not by way of limitation a personal computer PC a personal digital assistant PDA a cell phone a television TV etc. or any other device configured to send receive data to from the communication network such as consumer electronic devices and hand held devices.

The implementation depicted in includes a processor coupled to ROM input output devices e.g. a keyboard mouse etc. a media drive e.g. a disk drive USB port etc. a network connection a display memory e.g. random access memory RAM and a file storage device

The storage device is described herein in several implementations as a hard disk drive for convenience but this is certainly not required and one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that other storage media may be utilized without departing from the scope of the invention. In addition one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that the storage device which is depicted for convenience as a single storage device may be realized by multiple e.g. distributed storage devices.

As shown a software solution includes a data retrieval module a reports generator module a user interface module all of which are implemented in software and are executed from the memory by the processor . The software can be configured to operate on personal computers e.g. handheld notebook or desktop servers or any device capable of processing instructions embodied in executable code. Moreover one of ordinary skill in the art will recognize that alternative embodiments implementing one or more components in hardware are within the scope of the invention. Each module function similarly to modules and respectively of .

The exemplary systems and methods of the invention have been described above with respect to the analysis system and or the client . One of skill in the art will appreciate alternative embodiments wherein the functions of the analysis system are performed on other devices in the networked system .

Those skilled in the art can readily recognize that numerous variations and substitutions may be made in the invention its use and its configuration to achieve substantially the same results as achieved by the embodiments described herein. Accordingly there is no intention to limit the invention to the disclosed exemplary forms. Many variations modifications and alternative constructions fall within the scope and spirit of the disclosed invention as expressed in the claims.

