---

title: Wireless controller device
abstract: A remote wireless device is provided that operates a user interface specific to a particular target application or device. The wireless device receives information regarding the status or operation of the target's application, and uses that information to determine what information and controls to present to the remote user. The remote user views information regarding the target application, and makes desired control selections using the available controls. The wireless device generates a message according to the control selections, and transmits the message to the target device. The target device acts responsive to the control message, and updated operational information may be sent to the remote wireless device.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08019329&OS=08019329&RS=08019329
owner: TOR Anumana
number: 08019329
owner_city: San Diego
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101211
---
The field of the present invention is applications for operation on a wireless remote device. More particularly the present invention relates to a wireless remote device configured to operate as a wireless remote controller.

Wireless devices are widely used today and their use is becoming more widespread as additional applications and devices become available. Also the network infrastructures have improved wireless coverage as well as communication quality and speeds. For example a wireless mobile handset has improved to the point where the mobile handset may have a wide range of entertainment applications as well as its essential communication capabilities. With these extended capabilities the wireless handset has become the most widely deployed and most conveniently available remote wireless device. Many users consider their wireless handset to be an essential partner both in business and in entertainment. As such these users almost always have access to their wireless handsets and are comfortable carrying and using the wireless handset in almost any environment. The wireless handset may take the form of a traditional wireless phone or may be included with a personal data assistant gaming device or music player for example.

The widespread use of mobile handsets permits users to work remotely while still maintaining communication with a home office co workers or clients. However when working remotely it may be difficult to interact with necessary devices such as a desktop computer. For example a user s main desktop computer may have a robust set of office applications which are far too complicated to operate on a wireless handset and for operational or security purposes can not be operated on remote computer systems. If the user needs to access the desktop computer or operate an application on the desktop computer the user must obtain the assistance of someone physically in the office or try to find a remote computer system that is allowed to remotely access the office s network. This limitation for remote users is frustrating and reduces user productivity.

In another example a work team may need to make a presentation to an important client. Some of the work team are local to the client so are able to attend in person but some of the team are remote and it would be too costly or time consuming to have them attend the meeting in person. Therefore the remote team members use a teleconferencing system to make their respective part of the presentation. Typically such presentations include the use of a graphical presentation program which displays charts graphical information or bullet slides to the client as a presenter speaks. Since some of team members are remote a local team member operates the projection system while the remote member speaks. Often the speaker gets out of sync with the presentation which may confuse or perturb the client audience or the remote speaker forgets the order or content of the slides. Either way the client has a poor impression.

What is needed then is a device and system that enables a remote user to effectively and efficiently control target devices.

Briefly the present invention provides a remote wireless device that operates a user interface specific to a particular target application or device. The wireless device receives information regarding the status or operation of the target s application and uses that information to determine what information and controls to present to the remote user. The remote user views information regarding the target application and makes desired control selections using the available controls. The wireless device generates a message according to the control selections and transmits the message to the target device. The target device acts responsive to the control message and updated operational information may be sent to the remote wireless device.

In a specific example a target is operating a graphical presentation program that includes a set of slides. The target is operating a host process that extracts status information regarding the presentation and sends that status information to a remote wireless handset. The status information may include for example a thumbnail image of the current slide a thumbnail image of the next slide speaker notes or a list of upcoming bullet points. The wireless device displays all or a subset of the status information to the remote users and also presents a user control interface. The user control interface may include controls to advance to next slide return to last slide display next bullet skip next bullet for example. As the user makes control selections the wireless handset generates and transmits control messages to the presentation program which then operates according to the command. The target host then collects an updated status and sends the updated status information to the remote wireless handset.

Advantageously the wireless controller may be implemented using a wireless phone operating on a standard commercial wireless network. Since handsets are so widely deployed and used the advantages of the present invention are available to a wide range of users and applications. The wireless controller intelligently interacts with a target device enabling the user of a handset to make effective and efficient control decisions from a location remote from the target device.

Referring now to an intelligent wireless control system is illustrated. Control system enables a standard wireless device to intelligently adapt to a target device s condition and thereby effectively and efficiently control that remote target device. Wireless control system has a mobile device communicating through a network to a target . In one example mobile device is a wireless mobile handset communicating on a public communication network. For example mobile device may be operating according to a CDMA CDMA 2000 UMTS GSM OFDMA PHS PCS or other wireless communication standard. In a similar manner communication network cooperates with mobile device for establishing two way communication with target . It will be appreciated that any over the air communication network and corresponding wireless device may be used. Control system has a target that has an operating application for providing a local function. For example target device may be a computer for locally displaying graphical information or may play unicast broadcast or multicast audio or video content. In another example the target may be an IPTV device which is configure to play audio video or movie files received on a TCP IP connection. In this way application may be an e mail application a media player application an IPTV application a graphical presentation application or a file management application. It will be appreciated that other types of applications may be used. The target device may connect through a network interface to establish communication with the over the air communication network . It will be appreciated that multiple communication networks may be used to establish communication. For example target device may be connected to local routers and switches which communicate to an internet server. The internet server may then couple to the over the air communication network using an internet service provider or network interface. Although several cooperating networks may be used mobile device and target are placed in communication.

Mobile device has a user interface for enabling a user to input control instructions for target . In this way user interface has been designed to implement the controllable features of application . For example if application is a media player the user interface may provide play stop pause fast forward rewind and volume functions which are typical control functions for media application . In another example if application is a presentation application then user interface may provide controls for advancing by one slide going backward by one slide viewing thumbnails of upcoming slides allowing selections of individual slides or enabling positioning of a marker or highlighter. In the specific example of a presentation application itemized bullets on a slide may be introduced sequentially using the mobile controller. In order to more effectively control the remote presentation the wireless mobile device receives information about the target presentation and adapts its control features according to the current state of the presentation. It will be appreciated that each application will have a particular user interface with which it may be associated.

System also has a trusted server for assisting in properly associating mobile devices and targets. This association is accomplished in a trusted and secure environment enabling targets to confidently allow mobile devices to assume control of selected aspects of applications. In order to facilitate this level of trusted communication trusted server has predefined information as to mobile device information and target information. In one example trusted server maintains handle information for the mobile device. Often the handle identifier will the mobile identification number MIN information for each of its mobile devices. In some cases the mobile devices may have communicate using a static TCP IP connection and therefore the IP address information may be used as the identifying handle. A public key is associated with the device address or MIN information which is useful for enabling a public key private key encryption system. In a similar way each target may have a handle which is a simple or common name for referring to a target. Often the handle is the email address for the target or may be a username associated with a target s address on a network. In some cases if the target uses a static IP address the static IP address may also be used as the identifying handle. Target may also have its public key stored at the trusted server . With the basic mobile device and target device information stored on trusted server mobile devices and targets may be associated for control applications.

In a typical application target device is operating and has a host application or other process available for enabling remote control and interaction. The remote control process is enabled to send selected control information to the mobile device as well as receive and respond to control messages from the mobile device. The information sent from the target application to the remote device enables the remote device to adapt its interface to reflect the current state of the target application. In this way the remote device enables intelligent control and operation of the remote target application. The target connects through network interface to an over the air communication network . Target device may have predefined information on which particular mobile devices are allowed to control it or mobile devices may make requests to control target . Either way target device and mobile device cooperate to establish a secure and trusted communication link. In one example target device and mobile device use an asymmetrical public key private key encryption mechanism to establish a trusted and authenticated communication link. Once a trusted relationship has been established the target device and mobile device may move to a more efficient symmetrical security system. In such a symmetrical system a time limited session key is used by both the mobile device and the target device for encrypting and decrypting session communications.

With communication established mobile device either retrieves or receives a user interface specific to the application to be controlled in the target. In one example target downloads the specific application user interface to mobile device and enables mobile device to control target . In this case the target device may download a user interface specific to the level of control allowable for the particular mobile device. In this way the target may limit the access or control ability of mobile device by downloading a restricted use user interface. In another example mobile device may locally store a user interface and upon determining the type of target application to be controlled retrieve a particular user interface. In this example the target device may have an access control list which is downloaded to mobile device which instructs the user interface that only a certain level of functionality is available. In another example user interface is not limited but target and its application restricts commands received from mobile device to a set of approved commands. Using any one of these techniques the ability of mobile device to control target may be limited restricted or controlled to desired levels.

Since user interface is operated remotely it is desirable that mobile device be provided with sufficient information so that a user may be enabled to make control decisions in a timely and effective manner. In this way current operational information regarding application is communicated to mobile device and made available through user interface . For example if application is a graphical presentation application then current slide information as well as available slide information is available for mobile device . In this way a user at mobile device may make timely decisions regarding future slides to be viewed at target . More specifically selected information from application is communicated to user interface for facilitating remote user decisions. When using a graphical presentation application it is often useful to allow the presenter to sequentially and individually present each bullet point on a slide. To do so remotely requires that the remote user have information regarding the present state of the presentation that is which slide and bullet is presently being shown to the audience. It would also be useful if the remote presenter had information regarding the presentation flow. For example the presenter may desire to know what the next bullet point will be on the current slide and may benefit from knowing the content of the next slide. With this information the remote user could effectively control the presentation confident that the presentation was properly synced with his or her desires. This intelligent remote control enables the wireless remote device to adapt to currently available options and enables the user to make proper control decisions.

Mobile device may in one example be a remote wireless handset. In another example mobile device may be a personal data assistant a portable computing device a wireless module installed in a larger device or other remote wireless device. Typically mobile device will be a mobile wireless handset due to the ubiquitous nature of wireless phones.

Referring now to a system for managing an intelligent wireless control device is illustrated. Control method has preamble activities which are performed prior to a control session initialization steps which are performed to discover and authenticate target and mobile devices and control processes which are used to actively control a target from a mobile. Preamble activities are used to register target and mobile devices with a trusted server so that future discovery and authentication processes may be done in a secure and trusted environment. As shown in block a public key private key is established for each target. A public key private key pair is useful in establishing asymmetrical secured communication. A handle is also defined for each target which enables simplified identification of a target. For example the handle for a computer may be the name of the computer on its network or may be the name of its primary user. In another example a handle may be the e mail address for the primary user of a computer or may be another easy to remember name for the computer. In this way the trusted server has handle and key information for each available target. Each mobile also registers with the trusted server as shown in block . Each mobile also has a public key private key pair and registers its public key with the trusted server. Mobile devices typically are identified with their mobile identification number MIN which is often referred to as their phone number. For data enabled devices the mobile device may be identified by its TCP IP address. In this way the public key and address information for each mobile device is also preregistered with the trusted server.

During the initialization process the preregistered targets and mobiles are associated for a particular control session. As shown in block this association may be predefined or may be dynamically set during initialization. In one example a target has a particular set of mobile devices which are an authorized to control it and upon initialization attempt to establish a trusted communication with each of the authorized mobiles. In another example the set of mobile control devices may not be preauthorized but may be discovered upon initialization. In this way mobile devices may be placed in a state to be discovered and targets may be placed in a state to receive requests from mobile devices. In a typical example a target is made operational and actively operates a particular target application. A mobile device makes a request to control the target s application. The target is in a state where it is able to receive the mobile s request and then proceeds to further authenticate the mobile device. For example the process may move to the authentication step as shown in block . The target and the mobile use asymmetric cryptography to authenticate each other. In the process a time limited session key is also communicated from one of the target and the mobile to the other. After authentication data in the session is encrypted using the session key. It will be appreciated that the asymmetrical private key public key messaging protocols consume valuable mobile processing power and therefore a more efficient symmetrical security system may be desirable. In this way after secure and trusted communication is established the target and mobile communicate securely via symmetric encryption using a session key. The target and the mobile use asymmetric cryptography to authenticate each other. In the process a time limited session key is also communicated from one of the target and the mobile to the other. After authentication data in the session is encrypted using the session key.

The mobile now loads an application specific control interface as shown in block . This user interface is specific to the application operating on the target. For example if the application is a media player then the application specific interface may include play pause stop fast forward rewind and volume controls. This user interface may be stored at the mobile device and retrieved or received in a message from target device. If the user interface is received from the target then the target may adjust the capability of the user interface according to the desired level of access for that particular mobile. In this way the access controls for the mobile device may be handled by limiting the utility of the user interface downloaded to the mobile device. In another example the target may download an access control mechanism to the mobile which cooperates with the user interface to limit the controls available to the user. In one specific example if the local application is a media player and the target does not desire the remote user to be able to adjust volume then the volume control may not be downloaded to the mobile device. In another example the access control list may define that the user interface is not allowed to control volume. Either way the mobile device would be restricted from controlling the volume on the remote target.

For ongoing control the mobile receives current data from a target process operating on the target as shown in block . The type of data or information received will depend on the specific application being operated on the target. The type of information will also depend on the access limits for the remote user and the technical capabilities of the remote wireless device. For example a fully authorized remote user having a wireless device with a full graphical display may receive substantial information regarding file structures application status available options etc. However if the user has more limited access rights or has a more limited capability wireless device then less information may be sent. In a similar manner the quality and speed of the communication link may dictate the level of information sent. Typically the target is operating a host process that is configured to extract useful information regarding the operating application. Often the operating application has an associated API application programming interface that allows the host process to interrogate the operating application or to extract operational information. The host process may intelligently determine what information to extract as well as which information to send to the remote device. To facilitate a positive user experience the mobile device desirably controls the target in a manner consistent with local or tethered control. In this way the remote user needs information sufficient to make proper decisions on target control. Accordingly the mobile receives current information from the target regarding status of the application as well as immediate control options. For example the mobile device may receive information regarding current media content options e mail options channel selection options or file information options. In a more specific example if the application is a graphical presentation application then the mobile device may receive information regarding current immediate past and future slides that may be presented. The mobile may also receive a file structure that enables viewing of all slides available for selection. In this way a remote user may make decisions consistent with decisions made at the local target. Using the local presentation of the user interface which includes the target application information the user sends commands to the host or target application as shown in block . This control may not only control the existing application but may halt applications start applications or make file selections as shown in block .

As generally described above the mobile device is used to control an application operating on the target and to present sufficient information and choices to the user so that the target application may be effectively and efficiently controlled. In other uses the mobile device may also be used to locally generate content such as text images video or audio and send that content to the host application. In this way the content creation process may be divided between the target and the mobile dependent on the particular application and the specific features available on the mobile. For example when the mobile is using an email host application the user may create text content on the mobile device. In doing so the user selects Compose email on mobile. Then using speech to text or an expanded mobile keyboard the user inputs email text and addresses. Then using the user interface for the target file system the user chooses attachment to attach to email and sends the email content to the host target. The user then sends commands to the target so that the target sends the email.

Referring now to a system for performing preamble activities for a wireless control device is illustrated. Method has a target operating an application. In one example the target is a computer system or another communication enabled processor system. The target has communication capability such that it may establish communication with a trusted server such as a key server. The target generates a private key and public key pair The target also has a handle which may be a name e mail address or other easy identification value or indicator. The target registers its public key handle or name with the trusted key server as shown in block . In a similar manner a mobile device generates a private and public key pair and registers its public key and handle with the trusted server. For a mobile the handle typically will be its mobile identification number although in other cases it may be its TCP IP address. Also the mobile may register its preferred discovery method with the trusted server. For example some mobile devices may more efficiently respond to an SMS MMS or EMS message while other mobile devices may respond more efficiently to TCP IP communications.

More specifically a mobile device may be configured to operate a small process which acts to determine when a target desires to establish a trusted communication. This small process may monitor for an SMS MMS EMS message and more particularly may monitor for an SMS MMS EMS message with a particular code value or message. In this way a target either alone or with in cooperation with a trusted server may send a predefined SMS MMS EMS message to a mobile and the mobile may therefore be aware that a target is trying to establish communication. In another example a mobile may have TCP IP enabled communication and may therefore identify a particular port for receiving requests from targets. When a request is received on this specific port address the mobile device becomes aware that the target desires to establish trusted communication. It will be appreciated that some mobile devices have both SMS MMS EMS and TCP IP communication capability and decision on which to enable may be made on application specific requirements. In another example the mobile may register both types of discovery methods and the target may attempt both methods in established communication.

During initialization the target may also define particular access limits for a specific mobile a set of mobiles or all mobile devices. For example if a target enables a mobile device to access its file structure mobile devices may be restricted to particular files or particular folder structures within the file system. In another example the access rights may be established for each mobile individually or may be established for sets of mobile devices. Also it will be appreciated that the access rights are only the predefined access rights and may be changed as specific communications are established between mobile and target devices. In one example access control is applied to resources available at the target application. When the remote device requests to view use modify delete augment a target resource the target consults an Access Control List ACL to determine the remote user s or device s rights. An example of a target resource is the list of files in a directory or folder. Another example is the list of bullets i.e. the order and the text of each bullet in a slide of a graphical presentation. Rights are determined by consulting the various ACLs. It will be appreciated that multiple levels of ACLs may be used. For example the user may have a specific ACL the type of device may have a specific ACL and the type of communication link may have a specific ACL. In application the most restrictive ACL wins and the mobile will be denied access according to the most limiting ACL.

Referring now to a method of using a wireless control device is illustrated. Method has a mobile device that is prepared to be discovered as shown in block In this way the mobile device may have registered its mobile identification number and public key as shown in block . After registration the mobile device monitors its SMS messages or its TCP IP ports for contact by an appropriate target. If such a request is made then the mobile starts a local client process and continues to establish trusted communication. In another example as shown in block the mobile device may generate a request control specific target. For example a user may walk into a room and be invited to control a target application. The mobile user may be invited to send a message to a target SMS mailbox or TCP IP address and thereby begin the establishment of trust communication.

The target is also prepared for discovery as shown in block . In one example the target has a set of predefined mobile devices that are authorized to control it. In this way the target may simply recall the mobile addresses as shown in block . In other cases the target may receive requests for control and thereby need to request a specific mobile handle MIN or address as shown in block . Finally the target may have made itself available to receive requests and thereby wait for requests from mobile devices as shown in block . Irrespective of which process is used to obtain the mobile address information the target cooperates with the key server to obtain the mobile public key. The mobile public key which has been prestored by the mobile device is associated with the address for the mobile device. In this way the target is able to retrieve the public key for the mobile device. The target then encrypts the target IP address and the target handle using first the target private key and then the resulting message is encrypted to the mobile public key. This twice encrypted message is then transmitted wirelessly to the mobile device. The mobile device using its private key decrypts the message. Upon decrypting with its private key the mobile obtains the handle for the target. The mobile is then able to communicate with the trusted server to obtain the public key for the target. Using the public key of the target the mobile further decrypts the message and obtains the target address as shown in block .

Upon confirming messages and addresses the mobile confidently trusts the origination of the target message. Accordingly the mobile generates a session key as shown in block . The session key is intended for symmetrical communication encryption which is more efficient then asymmetrical encryption. The session key is encrypted by the mobile using its private key and then encrypted to the target s public key as shown in block . The twice encrypted session key is then wirelessly communicated to a target as shown in block . The target then decrypts the message using its private key and then the mobile public key as shown in block . Provided the decryption process completes successfully the target has authenticated the mobile as a trusted communication partner. It also has obtained the session key as shown in block . The target and mobile may then proceed with symmetrical communication encryption as shown in block . The process illustrated with is used to establish a trusted communication between a target and a mobile. Further the process described with reference to also enables target devices and mobile devices to preregister with a trusted third party and then upon application needs establish control relationships between mobile devices and target devices.

Referring now to a method for controlling a target device is illustrated. Method has a mobile registering with a trusted server as shown in block . As generally described with reference to the mobile establishes trusted communication with the target as shown in block . Once trusted communication is established the mobile may retrieve a target interface as shown in block or may receive a target interface from the target as shown in block . Since the control interface is specific to the application operating on the target the mobile needs application information in order to retrieve the target interface as shown in block . For example if the target is operating a media player then the mobile uses this information to retrieve a player user interface from its local memory. Of course the specific capability available to the local player the may be adjusted according to the specific player activated at the target or according to an access control list. It will be appreciated that other methods of limiting the ability of the user interface may be used. In another example the target may detect or otherwise determine the type of mobile device used and download a specific user interface to the target. For example the target may determine the user has a specific wireless handset having a particular resolution for its graphical display. The target may also identify the user as having a particular access limit and thereby download a user interface particular to the mobile device and according to the level of access allowed for that user. Once the mobile device has received the user interface the user interface is activated on the mobile device as shown in block . The user interface operates according to the specific mobile capability and according to any target access controls that may be set. The mobile may also receive more specific control access information as shown in block . This control access information may be in the form of limitations in the remote control user interface or in the types of information or options made available to the remote user. It will be appreciated that that access control information may be provided in alternative forms.

In using the control interface the control interface desirably has information regarding the current status and available options at the target application. Since the mobile device may be operated from a remote location and communicates through public communication networks this information is important to provide an effective robust and user friendly experience for the remote user. In this way the mobile device and control interface receives application information from the target application as shown in block . This information may include for example information regarding current status available options and actions taken at the target.

With trusted and controlled communication established the mobile is now able to use the application control interface to send commands to the target as shown in block . These commands may be for example a command to launch a new application as shown in block a command to halt operation as shown in or other program operation. The commands may also include file commands such as open the file search for filed or phrase as shown in block or other file or folder operation. The commands may also include commands such as playing fast forward rewind play pause advance or other commands associated with media controls. The commands may also include commands for setting or disabling alerts as shown in block or may include volume controls or motion controls . The controls may also include broad selection capabilities or the ability to activate processes within target applications. For example the mobile device may be used to send an e mail from a target computer system. In a case where the remote device has substantial keyboard or voice to text capability and a relatively large display the remote device may include a robust set of email drafting and editing controls. In the case of a graphical presentation the remote wireless control may include advance or reverse one or more slides or pick a slide form thumbnail list. The remote may allow introduction or bypassing of bullets from individual slides. The remote may also present speaker comments or notes to assist the remote user in making the presentation. In the case of controlling an IPTV device the wireless remote may have controls for play pause stop select channel advance or rewind buffered channel. The wireless remote may also allow channel select from graphical or textual channel listing. In more sophisticated wireless remotes the wireless remote may even support a picture in a picture feature to preview content before making the selection active on the target.

Once the mobile has initiated a command as shown in block the mobile device generates a command message and forwards the command message through a public communication network to the target application. The target is operating a host process which receives the message and parses it to extract the specific command. The local application has an API application programming interface which allows an API command. The local process converts the command received from the mobile into an API command or data and sends the appropriate command or data to the application. The application then executes the command as received from the mobile device. In another example the mobile device may make information or status requests for the target application. Since the mobile device may be remotely positioned it may need periodic status updates to properly inform the mobile user of current control options. In another example the target application may send update information as target control options change. In some cases it may be possible that the mobile device and the target application to become unsynchronized. This may occur for example if a local or tethered control is also operating the target application. In this case synchronization could be affected. Synchronization may be lost for other reasons for example if another local or remote user changes a file location or deletes a file. However the target is aware that a remote mobile is authorized to operating it and thus whenever such changes occur the target may easily send the new state or an update to the mobile. In some cases the update would immediately be communicated to the remote user and in other cases the change would affect future choices the remote user could make.

In a particular example as shown in block after the target performs the command in block the target then responds to the mobile by sending a confirmation that the command has been performed or sends updated information regarding the status of the target application. Either way the mobile device becomes aware of the control status of the target application. In this way the user at the mobile device may make more accurate and effective decisions on future control of the target application.

Referring now to and a system for wireless control is illustrated. System has multiple mobile devices such as mobile devices and for communicating through an over the air communication network . As previously described mobile devices and may have registered with a trusted server thereby having their mobile data stored on the trusted server. In a similar manner multiple targets such as target and target may also communicate through a network interface to the over the air communication network . The targets may also have their information stored on the trusted server as shown in block . Each target may be running one or more applications. For example target is shown to be operating application . In other example target is shown to be operating applications and . Accordingly mobile device to may be set to establish control for one of the targets such as target and mobile device made may be established to have control of target device . In another example both mobile devices may be used to control applications on target or both mobile devices may be used to control application . It will be appreciated that many alternatives exist for the relationship between the mobile devices and the applications.

An auxiliary computer may also be used to facilitate setting up and using the wireless control system. The auxiliary computer may be used for example to define intended control relationships. In this way a user may use auxiliary computer to define which mobile devices such as mobile device and should be associated with particular applications operating on specific targets. It will be appreciated that the auxiliary computer may communicate through various network connections and may be implemented through one or more network systems.

Referring now to another wireless control system is illustrated. Wireless control system is similar to wireless and control system previously described so will not be discussed in detail. Wireless control system does not have a trusted third party key server but relies upon predefined relationships to establish trusted communications. For example mobile device has target data which defines an IP address and a public key for communication with a particular target. In a similar manner target has mobile data information which defines particular mobile address and public key information for establishing secured and trusted communication with mobile device . The mobile and the target may share their respective public keys for example by exchange over a secure network or by preloading the keys by exchanging magnetic media. The mobile data also includes discovery method information so that target can initiate the client process on mobile device . Since the mobile device and target device all have a predefined security and discovery information no third party discovery server is required. In this way user device may effectively securely and efficiently link control application . Of course target may communicate to the over the air communication networks through a network interface . As with previous networks the over the air communication network may be a CDMA CDMA2000 UMTS GMS edge GPRS PHS or PCS standard telecommunications system. Of course it will be appreciated that other over the air wireless communication standards may be used.

Referring now to a wireless control system is illustrated. Wireless control system has a mobile device communicating through an over the air communication network to a target computer system . The mobile device has an information processing application which is used for receiving and transmitting information to the over the air communication network . In a similar manner the target computer has an information processing application for sending and receiving information on the over the air communication network .

The mobile device operates a control interface that has an interface display for informing a mobile user of available control options. In particular this interface display displays information according to available control available at the target application as well as limitations according to access control limits. Input controls are also present of the mobile device for enabling target control. For example the mobile device may have a set of soft keys or may define particular keys to implement specific functions for the target application. It will be appreciated that many options exist for defining keys knobs controls and other imports on the mobile device. The mobile device also has local storage for storing control information and user interface information.

Target computer has an application which operates to provide a local target function. For example the application may be a media player graphical presentation e mail process or other local operating application. The application has an API control input which is enabled to receive commands from information processing application . In this way messages received from the information processing module may be used to effect control in application . More particularly when an input control is selected the mobile device generates a control message using the information processing module . The control message is transmitted through the over the air communication network to the target computer and received by the information processing module . The information processing module extracts the API command information and transfers it to the application . In this way the application performs the control selected by mobile device . The application associates with the application information module for maintaining status information regarding the application. The application information may be communicated to the mobile device for allowing the mobile user to make more effective control decisions. For example application information may be processed through information processing module for communication to information processing module on the mobile device. The application s status information may thereby be displayed on the interface display and also may affect which input controls are available for use or their particular function as shown in block .

Referring again to the target computer when the API command is received at the application the application proceeds to perform a particular control function. That control function may be for example to display particular information to play media in a defined way to start to stop or pause an application or it may be to control an attached device. It will be appreciated that many other application results may be used.

While particular preferred and alternative embodiments of the present intention have been disclosed it will be appreciated that many various modifications and extensions of the above described technology may be implemented using the teaching of this invention. All such modifications and extensions are intended to be included within the true spirit and scope of the appended claims.

