---

title: Adhesive article comprising an acrylic foam layer
abstract: The present disclosure provides an adhesive article comprising a foam layer having first and second major sides and a pressure sensitive adhesive layer associated with at least one of the major sides for the foam layer, said pressure sensitive adhesive layer comprising a cross-linked rubber and wherein the foam layer comprises an acrylic polymer obtainable by polymerization a polymerizable composition comprising one or more alkyl acrylates having an average of 3 to 14 carbon atoms in the alkyl groups, one or more polar monomers and one or more multi-functional monomers having at least two free radical polymerizable groups.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09376599&OS=09376599&RS=09376599
owner: 3M Innovative Properties Company
number: 09376599
owner_city: St. Paul
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100223
---
This application is a national stage filing under 35 U.S.C. 371 of PCT US2010 025045 filed Feb. 23 2010 which claims priority to EP Application No. 09154408.0 filed Mar. 5 2009 the disclosure of which is incorporated by reference in its their entirety herein.

The present disclosure relates to an adhesive article comprising an acrylic foam layer and a pressure sensitive adhesive layer that comprises a cross linked rubber. The disclosure further relates to making the adhesive article and use thereof.

Adhesives and tapes are commonly used to bond two substrates together to form a bonded composite. Particular adhesive tapes include those that have a foam layer. Such tapes or adhesive articles are used for example in the automotive industry where they may be employed to bond various components to the body of a car or other motor vehicle. Typically they are used to bond such parts as emblems plastic parts as well as rubber gaskets to doors.

Examples of adhesive tapes are disclosed in for example WO 2008 070386 U.S. Pat. No. 6 503 621 and U.S. Pat. No. 4 415 615.

While a vast array of adhesives and tapes are available advances in substrates and end use requirements continues to drive a need for new adhesive formulations and tape constructions. For example developments in paints and coatings on automotive parts to which the adhesive tapes are to be bonded have proven to be particularly challenging. Typically these coatings and paints have low surface energy requiring the development of special adhesive tapes. Likewise there is a continuing trend in the transportation sector and in particular in the automotive industry to further reduce weight of for example cars in order to save on fuel consumption. This trend is leading to use and application of adhesive tapes where they have previously not been used or to the application of tapes in new configurations that are more demanding for example in stress strain to which the adhesive tape may be subjected. In addition to performance properties environmental regulations and processing costs also influence product formulation requirements.

It would thus be desirable to find further adhesive articles that have one or more improved performance properties. For example it would be desirable to find an adhesive article that has improved adhesive performance in adhering to low energy surfaces such as for example paint and coating surfaces of automotive parts. It would furthermore be desirable to find adhesive articles that can be readily manufactured in an economical and cost effective way. Yet further it would be desirable to find adhesive articles that have good environmental properties. Also adhesive articles that are compatible with existing manufacturing methods that employ adhesive articles would be desirable.

In one aspect the present disclosure provides an adhesive article comprising a foam layer having first and second major sides and a pressure sensitive adhesive layer associated with at least one of the major sides for the foam layer said pressure sensitive adhesive layer comprising a cross linked rubber and wherein the foam layer comprises an acrylic polymer obtainable by polymerization a polymerizable composition comprising one or more alkyl acrylates having an average of 3 to 14 carbon atoms in the alkyl groups one or more polar monomers and one or more multi functional monomers having at least two free radical polymerizable groups.

The term associated with as used in connection with the present disclosure means that the relevant layer is provided directly on the surface or indirectly through the intermediary of one or more layers such as primer layers for example.

It has been found that that the adhesive articles show good to excellent adhesive performance. For example they may provide good or excellent adhesive performance to low energy surface including good 90 peel adhesion performance as well as performance under static and dynamic shear testing.

In a further aspect of the present disclosure there is provided a method of making the adhesive article comprising 

In yet a further aspect the present disclosure provides a use of the adhesive article comprising adhering the adhesive article to a substrate through said pressure sensitive adhesive layer.

In the disclosure of the present application the following terms are defined as follows unless otherwise indicated 

Any ranges identified in the present application are to be understood as including the end points unless expressly stated otherwise.

 e.g. elastomers that are either inherently tacky or that have been tackified with the addition of tackifying resins. Pressure sensitive adhesives according to the present disclosure include those that can be identified by any of the known methods for identifying pressure sensitive adhesives and include in particular those that can be identified by one or more of the following methods. According to a first method pressure sensitive adhesives may be defined by the Dahlquist criteria described in Handbook of Pressure Sensitive Adhesive Technology D. Satas 2nd ed. page 172 1989 at use temperatures. This criterion defines a good pressure sensitive adhesive as one having a 1 second creep compliance of greater than 1 10cm dyne. Alternatively since modulus is to a first approximation the inverse of compliance pressure sensitive adhesives may be defined as adhesives having a modulus of less than 1 10dynes cm.

Another method of identifying a pressure sensitive adhesive is that it is aggressively and permanently tacky at room temperature and firmly adheres to a variety of dissimilar surfaces upon mere contact without the need of more than finger or hand pressure as described in Glossary of Terms Used in the Pressure Sensitive Tape Industry provided by the Pressure Sensitive Tape Council August 1985.

Another suitable method of identifying a pressure sensitive adhesive is that it preferably has a room temperature storage modulus within the area defined by the following points as plotted on a graph of modulus versus frequency at 25 C. a range of moduli from approximately 2 10to 4 10dynes cmat a frequency of approximately 0.1 radian second 0.017 Hz and a range of moduli from approximately 2 10to 8 10dynes cmat a frequency of approximately 100 radians second 17 Hz for example see FIG. 8 16 on p. 173 Handbook of Pressure Sensitive Adhesive Technology D. Satas 2nd ed. 1989 .

In the following the invention will be described in more detail with reference to particular embodiments without however the intention to limit the invention.

The adhesive article comprises a foam layer having an acrylic polymer obtainable by polymerization of a polymerizable composition comprising one or more alkyl acrylates having an average of 3 to 14 carbon atoms in the alkyl group one or more polar monomers and one or more multi functional monomers having at least two free radical polymerizable groups.

The one or more alkyl acrylates of the polymerizable composition are typically mono functional monomers and include in particular acrylic acid ester of a nontertiary alcohol in which the alkyl group contains at least about 3 carbon atoms on average and preferably about 4 to about 14 carbon atoms on average . Typically the homopolymers of such monomers have a Tg of no greater than about 0 C. Examples of classes of suitable acrylic acid esters include but are not limited to 2 methylbutyl acrylate 2 ethylhexyl acrylate isooctyl acrylate lauryl acrylate n decyl acrylate 4 methyl 2 pentyl acrylate isoamyl acrylate sec butyl acrylate and isononyl acrylate. Preferred acrylic acid esters that can be used include but are not limited to 2 ethylhexyl acrylate isooctyl acrylate lauryl acrylate and 2 methylbutyl acrylate. Various combinations of such monomers can be employed. For example a combination of two or more alkyl acrylates may be used such as a combination of 2 ethylhexyl acrylate and isooctyl acrylate.

The polymerizable composition further includes one or more polar monomers typically monofunctional polar monomers. Examples thereof include in particular acidic monomers such as carboxylic acid monomers as well as various acrylamides. Particular examples of polar monomers include acrylic acid methacrylic acid itaconic acid maleic acid fumaric acid 2 hydroxyethyl acrylate or methacrylate N vinyl pyrrolidone N vinyl caprolactam acrylamide methacrylamide N substituted and N N disubstituted acrylamides such as N ethyl acrylamide N hydroxyethyl acrylamide N N dimethyl acrylamide N N diethyl acrylamide and N ethyl N dihydroxyethyl acrylamide acrylonitrile methacrylonitrile and maleic anhydride. Preferred polar monomers include but are not limited to acrylic acid itaconic acid N N dimethyl acrylamide acryl amide N vinyl pyrrolidone and N vinyl caprolactam. Various combinations of such polar monomers can be employed and in a particular embodiment a combination of two or more polar monomers is contemplated such as for example a combination of acrylic acid and itaconic acid.

The polymerizable composition from which the acrylic polymer of the foam layer can be derived further includes one or more multi functional monomers that have two or more ethylenically unsaturated groups. Examples of multi functional monomers include in particular multi functional acrylic monomers but other multi functional monomers such as butadiene and substituted triazines such as vinyl halomethyl s triazine type compounds such as for example 2 4 bis trichloromethyl 6 p methoxystyryl s triazine. Preferred are polyacrylic functional monomers such as for example pentaerythritol tetraacrylate tripropyleneglycoldiacrylate 1 12 dodecanediol diacrylate. Particular preferred examples of multi functional acrylic monomers include 1 2 ethylene glycol diacrylate hexane diol diacrylate and trimethylol propane triacrylate.

The acrylic polymer of the foam layer is typically obtainable from a polymerizable composition having a major amount of the one or more alkyl acrylates for example at least 84 by weight based on the total weight of monomers in the composition . A typical range is from 84 to 97 by weight or from 88 to 94 by weight. The amount of multi functional monomer or monomers in the polymerizable composition is typically at least 0.01 by weight and may range for example from 0.01 by weight to 1 or less by weight of the total weight of monomers in the composition or for example from 0.1 to 0.5 by weight. The polar monomer or monomers are typically present in amount of at least 3 by weight of the total weight of monomers in the composition an exemplary range being from 3 to 16 or from 5 to 12 by weight.

The polymerizable composition may contain further components including in particular a thixotropic agent. Examples of thixotropic agents include fumed silica. The polymerizable composition may also contain microsphere such as for example hollow glass bubbles or polymeric microspheres. Furthermore it may be desirable to include a surfactant in the polymerizable composition. Tackifiers in particular tackifiers suitable for use with acrylic adhesives may be added as well. Examples thereof include in particular rosin esters aromatic resins aliphatic resins terpenes and partially hydrogenated and hydrogenated resins.

The polymerizable composition typically also includes an initiator for initiating a free radical polymerization including thermal as well as photo initiators. Photoinitiators are preferred for use in connection with this disclosure. Examples of initiators can be found in U.S. Pat. No. 4 181 752 Martens et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 833 179 Young et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 804 610 Hamer et al. U.S. Pat. No. 5 382 451 Johnson et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 619 979 Kotnour et al. U.S. Pat. No. 4 843 134 Kotnour et al. and U.S. Pat. No. 5 637 646 Ellis . A particular example includes 2 2 dimethoxy 2 phenylacetophenone.

The foam layer of the adhesive article will typically have a thickness of at least 0.3 mm for example at least 0.5 mm. A typical thickness range for the foam layer is from 0.3 mm up to 2 mm for example from 0.5 mm up to 1.5 mm or from 0.7 mm to 1.2 mm. The foam layer typically has a cellular membrane structure which may have 15 to 85 of voids.

The foam layer is typically obtained and produced according to the methods described in U.S. Pat. No. 4 415 615. The process typically comprises frothing the polymerizable composition coating the froth on a backing such as for example a release liner and polymerizing the polymerizable composition.

Frothing is conveniently accomplished by whipping a gas into the polymerizable composition. Useful frothing gases typically are inert and include nitrogen gas or carbon dioxide. In a particular embodiment the monomers of the polymerizable composition may be partially polymerized prior to frothing so as to achieve a desirable viscosity for the frothing step. Useful viscosities to froth a composition are typically between 1000 and 40 0000 cps. The viscosity is typically selected so as to achieve a desired cell uniformity. For example above 5000 cps a higher cell uniformity will typically be obtained.

Additionally and alternatively to using prepolymerization to achieve a desired viscosity a thixotropic agent such as fumed silica may be used. In such case polymerization may be carried out in one step.

Polymerization of the polymerizable composition may be carried out by heat activation but is preferably is photoinitiated and hence the polymerizable composition will typically contain a photoinitiator. Typically photoinitiation is carried out by UV irradiation and a UV initiator will be used. If the polymerization is carried out in two steps in case of pre polymerization to enable a suitable viscosity as described above the amount of photo initiator initially used may be enough to allow initiation of further polymerization. Typically however a further addition of photoinitiator may be desired to initiate further polymerization following frothing.

When the polymerization is to be effected by ultraviolet radiation the polymerizable coating is preferably protected from air by a plastic film overlay which is fairly transparent to ultraviolet radiation and has a low adhesion surface. Biaxially oriented polyethylene terephthalate film which is about 75 transparent to ultraviolet radiation is very useful. If the underlying backing also has a low adhesion surface both the backing and the transparent plastic film can be stripped away so that the cellular adhesive membrane may be used for mounting objects. For such use the cellular membrane may be reinforced by a tissue like web to avoid becoming distorted if it is to be removed from both the backing and the transparent overlay before being applied.

If instead of covering the polymerizable coating the polymerization is to be carried out in an inert atmosphere the permissible oxygen content of the inert atmosphere can be increased by mixing into the polymerizable composition an oxidizable tin compound as taught in U.S. Pat. No. 4 303 485 Levens which also teaches that by doing so thick coatings can be polymerized in air.

Regardless of the process by which the cellular structure of the adhesive membrane is created it is preferred to include a surfactant in the composition preferably a silicone or a fluorochemical known to be useful for foaming organic liquids that have low surface tension. By doing so foams with cellular adhesive membranes of good uniformity can be produced wherein the cells have an average diameter within the range of 0.05 to 0.3 mm. Typically 90 of the cells of the adhesive membrane vary in size no more than 2 1 but some of the adhesive membranes have been characterized by significant variations in cell size.

On one or both opposite major sides of the foam layer is provided a pressure sensitive adhesive layer also called skin layer that comprises a cross linked rubber. The cross linked rubber may be obtained from crosslinking typically through e beam of a cross linkable block copolymer that has a rubbery block and a glassy block. Generally a rubbery block exhibits a glass transition temperature Tg of less than room temperature. In some embodiments the Tg of the rubbery block is less than about 0 C. or even less than about 10 C. In some embodiments the Tg of the rubbery block is less than about 40 C. or even less than about 60 C.

Generally a glassy block exhibits a Tg of greater than room temperature. In some embodiments the Tg of the glassy block is at least about 40 C. at least about 60 C. at least about 80 C. or even at least about 100 C.

A suitable block copolymer includes one or more a rubbery blocks R and one or more glassy blocks G. In some embodiments the block copolymer comprises at least three glassy blocks. In some embodiments the block copolymer comprises between three and five glassy blocks inclusive. In some embodiments the block copolymer comprises four glassy blocks.

In some embodiments the block copolymer is a multi arm block copolymer having the general formula Q Y wherein Q represents an arm of the multi arm block copolymer n represents the number of arms and is a whole number of at least 3 and Y is the residue of a multifunctional coupling agent. Each arm Q independently has the formula R G wherein G represents the glassy block and R represents the rubbery block.

In some embodiments the rubbery block comprises a polymerized conjugated diene a hydrogenated derivative of a polymerized conjugated diene or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the conjugated dienes comprise 4 to 12 carbon atoms. Exemplary conjugated dienes include butadiene isoprene ethylbutadiene phenylbutadiene piperylene pentadiene hexadiene ethylhexadiene and dimethylbutadiene. The polymerized conjugated dienes may be used individually or as copolymers with each other. In some embodiments the conjugated diene is selected from the group consisting of isoprene butadiene ethylene butadiene copolymers and combinations thereof.

In some embodiments at least one glassy block comprises a polymerized monovinyl aromatic monomer. In some embodiments both glassy blocks of a triblock copolymer comprise a polymerized monovinyl aromatic monomer. In some embodiments the monovinyl aromatic monomers comprise 8 to 18 carbon atoms. Exemplary monovinyl aromatic monomers include styrene vinylpyridine vinyl toluene alpha methyl styrene methyl styrene dimethylstyrene ethylstyrene diethyl styrene t butylstyrene di n butylstyrene isopropylstyrene other alkylated styrenes styrene analogs and styrene homologs. In some embodiments the monovinyl aromatic monomer is selected from the group consisting of styrene styrene compatible monomers or monomer blends and combinations thereof.

As used herein styrene compatible monomers or monomer blends refers to a monomer or blend of monomers which may be polymerized or copolymerized that preferentially associate with polystyrene or with the polystyrene endblocks of a block copolymer. The compatibility can arise from actual copolymerization with monomeric styrene solubility of the compatible monomer or blend or polymerized monomer or blend in the polystyrene phase during hot melt or solvent processing or association of the monomer or blend with the styrene rich phase domain on standing after processing.

In the general formula for some multi arm block copolymers of the present disclosure Q Y n represents the number of arms and is a whole number of at least 3 i.e. the multi arm block copolymer is a star block copolymer. In some embodiments n is ranges from 3 10. In some embodiments n ranges from 3 5. In some embodiments n is 4. In some embodiments n is equal to 6 or more.

In some embodiments the first block copolymer is a polymodal block copolymer. As used herein the term polymodal means that the copolymer comprises glassy blocks having at least two different molecular weights. Such a block copolymer may also be characterized as having at least one high molecular weight glassy block and at least one low molecular weight glassy block wherein the terms high and low are used relative to each other. In some embodiments the ratio of the number average molecular weight of the high molecular weight glassy block Mn relative to the number average molecular weight of the low molecular weight glassy block Mn is at least about 1.25.

In some embodiments Mn ranges from about 5 000 to about 50 000 g mol. In some embodiments Mn is at least about 8 000 and in some embodiments at least about 10 000. In some embodiments Mn is no greater than about 35 000 g mol. In some embodiments Mn ranges from about 1 000 to about 10 000 g mol. In some embodiments Mn is at least about 2 000 and in some embodiments at least about 4 000. In some embodiments Mn is less than about 9 000 g mol and in some embodiments less than about 8 000 g mol.

In some embodiments the first block copolymer is an asymmetric block copolymer. As used herein the term asymmetric means that the arms of the block copolymer are not all identical. Generally a polymodal block copolymer is an asymmetric block copolymer i.e. a polymodal asymmetric block copolymer as not all arms of a polymodal block copolymer are identical since the molecular weights of the glassy blocks are not all the same. In some embodiments the block copolymers of the present disclosure are polymodal asymmetric block copolymers. Methods of making asymmetric polymodal block copolymers are described in e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 5 296 547.

Generally the multifunctional coupling agent may be any polyalkenyl coupling agent or other material known to have functional groups that can react with carbanions of the living polymer to form linked polymers. The polyalkenyl coupling agent may be aliphatic aromatic or heterocyclic. Exemplary aliphatic polyalkenyl coupling agents include polyvinyl and polyalkyl acetylenes diacetylenes phosphates phosphites and dimethacrylates e.g. ethylene dimethacrylate . Exemplary aromatic polyalkenyl coupling agents include polyvinyl benzene polyvinyl toluene polyvinyl xylene polyvinyl anthracene polyvinyl naphthalene and divinyldurene. Exemplary polyvinyl groups include divinyl trivinyl and tetravinyl groups. In some embodiments divinylbenzene DVB may be used and may include o divinyl benzene m divinyl benzene p divinyl benzene and mixtures thereof. Exemplary heterocyclic polyalkenyl coupling agents include divinyl pyridine and divinyl thiophene. Other exemplary multifunctional coupling agents include silicon halides polyepoxides polyisocyanates polyketones polyanhydrides and dicarboxylic acid esters.

Still further the cross linked rubber of the pressure sensitive adhesive layer may be obtained from the cross linking of a linear block copolymer of the formula R G wherein R represents a rubbery block G represents a glassy block and m the number of glassy blocks is 1 or 2. In some embodiments m is one and the linear block copolymer is a diblock copolymer comprising one rubbery block and one glassy block. In some embodiments m is two and the linear block copolymer comprises two glassy endblocks and one rubbery midblock i.e. the linear block copolymer is a triblock copolymer.

In some embodiments the rubbery block of the linear block copolymer comprises a polymerized conjugated diene a hydrogenated derivative thereof or combinations thereof. In some embodiments the conjugated dienes comprise 4 to 12 carbon atoms. Exemplary conjugated dienes useful in the second block copolymer include any of the exemplary conjugated dienes described above.

In some embodiments at least one glassy block and in some embodiments each glassy block of the linear block copolymer comprises a polymerized monovinyl aromatic monomer. In some embodiments the monovinyl aromatic monomers comprise 8 to 18 carbon atoms. Exemplary polymerized monovinyl aromatic monomers useful in the second block copolymer include any of the exemplary polymerized monovinyl aromatic monomer as described above.

In a particular embodiment a mixture of the linear block copolymer and the aforementioned and described multi arm block copolymer is used to obtain the cross linked rubber of the pressure sensitive adhesive layer. In some embodiments the ratio of multi arm block copolymers to linear block copolymers ranges from 1.5 1 to 9 1. In some embodiments the ratio of multi arm block copolymers to linear block copolymer is at least 1.85 1 or even at least 3 1. In some embodiments the ratio of multi arm block copolymers to linear block copolymers is no greater than 5.7 1 or even no greater than 4 1.

The pressure sensitive adhesive layer in a particular embodiment further includes one or more tackifiers and optionally one or more plasticizers. Generally a tackifier will be selected to be compatible with a rubbery block of a block copolymer as may be used for obtaining the cross linked rubber. As used herein a tackifier is compatible with a block if it is miscible with that block. Generally the miscibility of a tackifier with a block can be determined by measuring the effect of the tackifier on the Tg of that block. If a tackifier is miscible with a block it will alter e.g. increase the Tg of that block.

A tackifier is primarily compatible with a block if it is at least miscible with that block although it may also be miscible with other blocks. For example a tackifier that is primarily compatible with a rubbery block will be miscible with the rubbery block but may also be miscible with a glassy block.

Generally resins having relatively low solubility parameters tend to associate with the rubbery blocks however their solubility in the glassy blocks tends to increase as the molecular weights or softening points of these resins are lowered. Exemplary tackifiers that are primarily compatible with the rubbery blocks include polymeric terpenes hetero functional terpenes coumarone indene resins esters of rosin acids disproportionated rosin acid esters hydrogenated rosin acids C5 aliphatic resins C9 hydrogenated aromatic resins C5 C9 aliphatic aromatic resins dicyclopentadiene resins hydrogenated hydrocarbon resins arising from C5 C9 and dicyclopentadiene precursors hydrogenated styrene monomer resins and blends thereof.

In particular embodiments a first high Tg tackifier having a glass transition temperature Tg of at least 60 degrees Celsius C. . As used herein the terms high glass transition temperature tackifier and high Tg tackifier refers to a tackifier having a glass transition temperature of at least 60 C. In some embodiments the first high Tg tackifier has a Tg of at least 65 C. or even at least 70 C. In some embodiments the first high Tg tackifier has a softening point of at least about 115 C. and in some embodiments at least about 120 C.

In some embodiments the block copolymer adhesive compositions include a second high Tg tackifier that is primarily compatible with the glassy block s of the multi arm block copolymer and optionally with the glassy block s of the linear block copolymer. Generally a tackifier that is primarily compatible with a glassy block is miscible with the glassy block and may be miscible with a rubbery block.

Generally resins having relatively high solubility parameters tend to associate with the glassy blocks however their solubility in the rubbery blocks tends to increase as the molecular weights or softening points of these resins are lowered. Exemplary tackifiers that are primarily compatible with the glassy blocks include coumarone indene resins rosin acids esters of rosin acids disproportionated rosin acid esters C9 aromatics alpha methyl styrene C9 C5 aromatic modified aliphatic hydrocarbons and blends thereof.

In some embodiments the pressure sensitive adhesive layer further comprises at least one component selected from the group consisting of a low Tg tackifier a plasticizer and combinations thereof. As used herein the term low glass transition temperature tackifier refers to a tackifier having a glass transition temperature of less than 60 C. Exemplary low Tg tackifiers include polybutenes.

Generally a plasticizer is compatible with one or more blocks of the linear block copolymer and or one or more blocks of the multi arm block copolymer. Generally a plasticizer that is compatible with a block will be miscible with that block and will lower the Tg of that block. Exemplary plasticizers include naphthenic oils liquid polybutene resins polyisobutylene resins and liquid isoprene polymers.

In some embodiments the ratio of the total amount of high glass transition temperature tackifiers to block copolymers ranges from 0.8 1 to 1.25 1. In some embodiments the ratio of the total amount of high Tg tackifiers to block copolymers is at least 0.85 1 or even at least 0.9 1. In some embodiments the ratio of the total amount of high Tg tackifiers to block copolymers is no greater than 1.15 1 or even no greater that 1.1 to 1.

In some embodiments the ratio of the rubbery block compatible high Tg tackifier to the glassy block compatible high Tg tackifier is ranges from 1 1 to 9 1. In some embodiments the ratio of the rubbery block compatible high Tg tackifier to the glassy block compatible high Tg tackifier is at least 1.25 1 or even at least 1.5 1. In some embodiments the ratio of the rubbery block compatible high Tg tackifier to the glassy block compatible high Tg tackifier is no greater than 4 1 or even no greater than 3 1.

In a particularly preferred embodiment the pressure sensitive adhesive layer also includes an acrylic pressure sensitive adhesive component. Typically the pressure sensitive adhesive layer comprises at least about 0.1 parts in some embodiments at least about 0.5 parts at least about 1 part or even at least about 2 parts of an acrylic pressure sensitive adhesive component.

In a particular embodiment the pressure sensitive adhesive layer comprise no greater than about 10 parts in some embodiments no greater than about 8 parts no greater than about 5 parts or even no greater than about 4 parts of the acrylic pressure sensitive adhesive component. The amount of cross linked block copolymer will typically be between 30 and 60 or between 30 and 50 parts by weight of the total weight of the pressure sensitive adhesive layer.

In another embodiment the acrylic pressure sensitive adhesive component may be comprised in the pressure sensitive adhesive layer in an amount of between 40 and 60 parts by weight. In this embodiment the amount of cross linked block copolymer will typically be between 10 and 20 parts by weight of the weight of the pressure sensitive adhesive layer.

Typically the acrylic pressure sensitive adhesive component of the pressure sensitive adhesive layer is an acrylic polymer derived from one or more acrylic esters of a non tertiary alkyl alcohol that contains 3 to 14 carbon atoms. Exemplary acrylic acid esters include isooctyl acrylate 2 ethylhexyl acrylate butyl acrylate isobornyl acrylate and combinations thereof. Exemplary methacrylic acid esters include the methacrylate analogues of these acrylic acid esters. Typically the acrylic polymer will further comprises one or more units derived from a polar monomer such as for example described above.

In some embodiments the acrylic polymer comprises at least about 70 parts in some embodiments at least about 80 parts at least about 90 parts at least about 95 parts or even about 100 parts of at least one acrylic or methacrylic ester of a non tertiary alkyl alcohol. In some embodiments acrylic polymer comprises no greater than about 30 parts in some embodiments no greater than about 20 parts no greater than about 10 parts no greater than about 5 parts and even no greater than 1 part of at least one copolymerized polar monomer. In some embodiments the acrylic adhesive composition does not include a copolymerized polar monomer.

In some embodiments the ratio of the combination of the block copolymers and high Tg tackifiers to the acrylic pressure sensitive adhesive component is at least 8.3 1. In some embodiments the ratio of the combination of the block copolymers and high Tg tackifiers to the acrylic pressure sensitive adhesive component is at least 12.5 1 at least 22 1 at least 90 1 or even at least 180 1.

In some embodiments the ratio of the combination of the block copolymers high Tg tackifiers and acrylic pressure sensitive adhesive component to the liquid plasticizer ranges from 32 1 to 10 1. In some embodiments the ratio of the combination of the block copolymers high Tg tackifiers and acrylic pressure sensitive adhesive component to the liquid plasticizer is no great than 25 1 or even no greater than 20 1. In some embodiments the ratio of the combination of the block copolymers high Tg tackifiers and acrylic pressure sensitive adhesive component to the liquid plasticizer is at least 12.5 1.

The pressure sensitive adhesive compositions for providing the pressure sensitive adhesive layer on the foam layer can be made using methods known in the art. For example they can be made by dissolving the block copolymers suitable tackifiers any plasticizer s and any other additives including an acrylic pressure sensitive adhesive component in a suitable solvent and coating onto a release liner or directly onto the foam layer using conventional means e.g. knife coating roll coating gravure coating rod coating curtain coating spray coating air knife coating . In some embodiments the pressure sensitive adhesive composition of the pressure sensitive adhesive layer is prepared in a substantially solvent free process i.e. the adhesive contain no greater than about 20 wt. solvent in some embodiments no greater than about 10 wt. solvent and in some embodiments no greater than about 5 wt. solvent in some embodiments no greater than 1 wt. solvent or even no greater than trace amounts of solvent i.e. essentially no solvent . Such substantially solvent free processes are known and include e.g. compounding by calendaring or roll milling and extruding e.g. single. screw twin screw disk screw reciprocating single screw pin barrel single screw etc. . Commercially available equipment such as BRABENDER or BANBURY internal mixers are also available to batch mix the adhesive compositions. After compounding the adhesive may be coated through a die into a desired form such as a layer of adhesive or it may be collected for forming at a later time. In a particular embodiment the pressure sensitive adhesive composition may be extruded on the foam layer or may be extruded on a release liner and then subsequently laminated to the foam layer.

The pressure sensitive adhesive layer is typically applied on the foam layer at a weight per area of between 40 and 100 g m.

In accordance with the method of making the adhesive article the cross linkable rubber for example one or more cross linkable block copolymers as described above of the pressure sensitive layer is cross linked. In a particular embodiment the cross linkable rubber is cross linked by subjecting the pressure sensitive adhesive layer on the foam layer to e beam irradiation. Typically e beam irradiation will be carried out with an acceleration voltage of between 100 and 300 keV and a dose of 2 to 9 MRad. In a particular embodiment the e beam irradiation is focused at the interface of the pressure sensitive adhesive layer and foam layer. In another embodiment the focus of the e beam may be in the proximity of the interface for example within about 10 and 30 micrometer of the interface with the focus in the foam layer or in the pressure sensitive adhesive layer.

When the pressure sensitive adhesive composition having a cross linkable rubber is provided on both opposite major sides of the foam layer it will typically be preferred to irradiate such a laminate from both opposite major sides either sequentially of simultaneously.

In another embodiment the pressure sensitive adhesive layer having a cross linked rubber may be provided on only one of the major sides of the foam layer. The other major side may then be left without a further adhesive layer as the foam layer in accordance with the present disclosure will typically have useful pressure sensitive adhesive characteristics. In an alternative embodiment a further adhesive layer may be provided on the major side opposite to the major side having the pressure sensitive adhesive layer with the cross linked rubber. Such further adhesive layer may include any common pressure sensitive adhesive including acrylic pressure sensitive adhesive layers silicone based adhesives polyurethane based adhesives poly alpha olefins and the like.

In yet a further embodiment a further adhesive layer provided on the opposite major side may include a heat activatable adhesive layer. With heat activatable adhesive layer is meant an adhesive that requires heating in order to develop its maximum bond strength in bonding to a substrate. A heat activatable adhesive may or may not have useful pressure sensitive adhesive properties at room temperature about 25 C. . Typically a heat activatable adhesive for use with the present disclosure will be based on a thermoplastic polymer such as for example a film of a copolymer of ethylene and propylene thermoplastic polyurethane which may be tackified or not.

The adhesive articles in connection with the present disclosure can be used to bond to a substrate. Thus the pressure sensitive adhesive layer of adhesive article is used to bond the article to a desired substrate. In a particular embodiment such a substrate may have a low surface energy for example of less than 45 dynes cm or less than 40 dynes cm or 35 dynes cm or less.

The adhesive articles are particularly suitable for bonding various components including for example emblems plastic body moldings and rubber gaskets to a body of a motor vehicle in particular a car. For example in one embodiment the adhesive article may be bonded through its pressure sensitive adhesive having a cross linked rubber to the body of a car. A plastic molding emblem and the like may be adhered to the adhesive article on the opposite major side which may or may not contain a further skin adhesive layer. Generally the emblem plastic molding or gasket will be first bonded to the adhesive article and the resulting assembly may then be bonded to the motor vehicle in particular the car.

In another embodiment the adhesive article may be bonded on the major side opposite to the major side having the pressure sensitive adhesive layer comprising the cross linked rubber to a rubber gasket. Such rubber gasket may be directly bonded to the foam layer of the adhesive article but is typically bonded thereto through a further skin adhesive layer that is provided on the foam layer. In one embodiment such a skin adhesive layer may be a pressure sensitive adhesive and in another embodiment the skin adhesive layer comprises a heat activatable adhesive.

Adhesive articles provided with a rubber gasket as described in the previous paragraph can be readily applied to for example a door of a car so as to provide a door seal.

The invention will now be illustrated with reference to the following non limiting examples. All parts are by weight unless otherwise stated.

The tape to be tested was applied with its specific side to the painted steel substrate. To the opposite side of that tape an aluminum coupon 50 mm 25 mm 1 mm was applied.

The painted steel panels employed in this test method were obtained from a supplier mentioned in a separate section below. A basic description about the paints is provided in that separate section below as well.

Paint A and paint B were cleaned by wiping with a tissue saturated in n heptane. Paint C was cleaned by wiping with a tissue saturated with a 1 1 volume mixture of water and isopropanol. For the test the painted steel panel substrates were cut into coupons 50 mm 30 mm 1 mm .

The aluminum coupons were subjected to light abrasion with a Scotchbrite no. 7447 scrubbing pad available from 3M Company followed by cleaning wiping with a tissue saturated with Methylethyl ketone and finally cleaned by wiping with a tissue saturated with a 1 1 volume mixture of water and isopropanol.

The assemblies were prepared by applying first the treated aluminum coupon side the exposed tape surface side cut into an 1.27 cm 2.54 cm area. Then the liner is removed from the opposite specific tape area side and the cleaned painted steel panel coupon is applied to this tape surface using a 6.8 kg roller over rolling the test specimen twice with a speed of 300 mm min. After a dwell time of 20 min 24 hrs or 72 hrs the dynamic shear strength test was performed with 10 mm min or 50 mm min cross head speed. The test was repeated with 3 three repeating test samples and the average value was reported.

90 peel adhesion at 300 mm min was measured according to Federation Internationale des Fabricants Europeens et Transformateurs d Adhesifs et Thermocollants sur Papiers et autres Supports FINAT test method no. 2 with following exceptions 

The pressure sensitive adhesive layer of the present disclosure were allowed to dwell on the substrates before testing for 20 min 24 hrs and or 72 hrs as indicated in the table below.

A 150 m thick aluminium strip being anodized on one side and having a width of 1.6 cm is applied by hand with anodized side to specific side of the tape to be tested to form a non extendible backing.

A 6.8 kg roller was used to apply the tape to be tested to the substrate rather than 2 kg as required by the method. The 6.8 kg roller was rolled twice over the test specimen with a speed of 300 mm min.

Substrates employed were painted steel panels obtained from a supplier mentioned in a separate section below. A basic description about the paints is provided in that separate section below as well. Paint A and Paint B were cleaned by wiping with a tissue saturated in n heptane. Paint C was cleaned by wiping with a tissue saturated with a 1 1 volume mixture of water and isopropanol.

A standard static shear test was performed at elevated temperature according to Pressure Sensitive Tape Council Chicago Ill. USA PSTC 107 procedure G . The test was performed at 90 C. rather than 49 C. 120 F. as called for by the method. The substrates employed were painted steel panels obtained from a supplier mentioned in a separate section below. A basic description about the paints is provided in that separate section below as well. Paint A and Paint B were cleaned by wiping with a tissue saturated in n heptane. Paint C was cleaned by wiping with a tissue saturated with a 1 1 volume mixture of water and isopropanol.

The bonded sample area was 2.54 cm in the vertical direction by 1.27 cm in the width direction rather than 1.27 cm 1.27 cm as called for by the method . To the tape side opposite to that side which will be applied with its specific side to the painted substrate a 150 m thick aluminium strip is applied superimposing the tape area to provide a means of a load weight as described in PSTC 7. This aluminium strip has a width of 1.6 cm and is anodized on one side. This anodized aluminium strip side is to be applied first to the tape area. Then a 6.8 kg roller was used to apply the specific side of the tape area to be tested to the painted substrate panel. The roller was rolled twice over the test specimen with a speed of 300 mm min. After a dwell time of 24 hrs the test specimen were hung in the shear stand at elevated temperature. The shear stand with the test specimen was placed in a forced air oven held at the elevated temperature 90 C. for 10 min to condition it and then the load of 750 g rather than 1 kg as called for by the method was hung from the end of the aluminum strip bonded to the tape area to be tested. The time to failure for the adhesive bond was recorded in minutes. After passing 10000 min of holding time the test was stopped.

1K acrylic powder coating generation 9 automotive paint coated on steel plates obtained from DuPont Performance Coatings GmbH Co.KG Wuppertal.

1K acrylic powder coating generation 8 automotive paint coated on steel plates obtained from DuPont Performance Coatings GmbH Co.KG Wuppertal.

2K clear coat automotive paint containing nanoparticles coated on steel plates obtained from PPG Industries Lacke GmbH Ingersheim.

Acrylic Polymer 1 AP 1 was prepared by mixing 45 parts of IOA 45 parts of BA 10 parts of AA 0.15 part IRGACURE 651 and 0.06 part of IOTG. Discreet film packages were formed from a packaging film 0.0635 mm thick ethylene vinyl acetate copolymer film sold as VA 24 Film from CT Film Dallas Tex. . The AP I composition was sealed into the film packages which measured approximately 10 centimeters cm by 5 cm by 0.5 cm thick. While immersed in a water bath maintained between about 21 C. and about 32 C. the packages were exposed to ultraviolet UV radiation having an intensity of about 3.5 milliwatts per square centimeter mW sq cm and a total energy of about 1680 milliJoules per square centimeter mJ sq cm as measured in NIST units. The method of forming the packages and curing are described in Example 1 of U.S. Pat. No. 5 804 610 the subject matter of which is incorporated herein by reference in its entirety.

Acrylic Polymer 2 AP 2 was prepared according to the procedure for AP 1 except that 85 parts of 2 EHA 15 parts of AA 0.15 parts of IRGACURE 651 and 0.8 part IOTG were used. Similarly Acrylic Polymer 3 AP 3 was prepared according to the procedure for Acrylic Polymer 1 except that the composition was 95 parts of 2 EHA 5 parts of AA 0.15 part IRGACURE 651 and 0.03 part of IOTG. AP 2 and AP 3 were placed in packages and exposed to UV energy according to the procedure for AP 1.

Pressure sensitive adhesives according to the compositions shown in Table 2 were compounded using a 60 mm co rotating twin screw extruder available from Berstorff the first adhesive extruder . A polymodal asymmetric star block copolymer PASBC was prepared according to U.S. Pat. No. 5 393 373 the subject matter of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety. The polymer had number average molecular weights of about 4 000 Dalton and about 21 500 Dalton for the two endblocks 127 000 147 000 Dalton for the arm and about 1 100 000 Dalton for the star measured by SEC size exclusion chromatography calibrated using polystyrene standards. The polystyrene content was between 9.5 and 11.5 percent by weight. The mole percentage of high molecular weight arms was estimated to be about 30 .

The polymodal asymmetric block copolymer and a linear styrene isoprene styrene SIS block copolymer KRATON 1161 D were dry fed into the first zone of the first adhesive extruder. Using a roll feed extruder available from Berstorff acrylic polymer AP 1 was heated and fed into the third zone of the first adhesive extruder. Antioxidant IRGANOX 1010 ultraviolet light absorber TINUVIN 328 pigmented EVA 4900 CMB were dry fed and REGALITE R 1125 CUMAR 130 and NYPLAST 222B were melt fed in to various zones of the first adhesive extruder.

A pressure sensitive adhesive was compounded in a 60 mm co rotating twin screw extruder available from Berstorff the second adhesive extruder in a similar manner as described for the first skin adhesives except that the composition was as follows 12.70 of the polymodal asymmetric star block copolymer PASBC 53.10 by weight AP 1 23.30 tackifying resin ESCOREZ 1310LC 3.80 tackifying resin SUPERESTER W115 6.20 plasticizer SANTICIZER 141 0.26 antioxidant IRGANOX 1010 0.25 ultraviolet light absorber TINUVIN 328 and 0.38 CMB 4900.

The Foam core FC 1 having the composition shown in Table 3 was compounded according to the following procedure. Black pigmented EVA 4900 CMB was dry fed in to the first zone of a 90 mm co rotating twin screw extruder the core extruder available from Berstorff Hannover Germany . Using a roll feed extruder available from Berstorff both acrylic polymers AP 2 and AP 3 were heated and fed into the second zone of the core extruder. DUALITE U010 185D expandable microspheres expandable microspheres having a shell composition containing acrylonitrile and methacrylonitrile and a core of isopentane available from Henkel Corporation Gulph Mills Pa. were fed into the ninth zone of the core extruder.

Three layer co extruded tape samples were prepared by coextruding a first skin adhesive layer a foam core layer as the middle layer and a second skin adhesive layer.

The second skin adhesive was compounded in the second adhesive extruder as described above and fed through an outer layer of a three layer multi manifold film die obtained from Cloeren Inc. Orange Tex. . A foam core layer was compounded in the core extruder as described above and fed to the center layer of the three layer die. A first skin adhesive was compounded in the first adhesive extruder as described above and fed to the outer layer of the three layer die opposite the second skin adhesive.

Upon exiting the die the co extruded layers were cast onto a silicone release coated casting roll. The roll was cooled with water having a temperature of about 12 C. The cooled extrudate was transferred from the casting roll to a 0.117 mm thick two side silicone coated polyethylene release liner that was transported at the same speed as the casting roll to the end of the web transport line. The first skin adhesive was in contact with the liner after the transfer whereas the second skin adhesive was open to the air. The liner had differential release properties which allow the tape to be unrolled after winding without liner confusion. Release liners are well known in the art and any known release liner may be used. Typically the release liner comprises a film or paper substrate coated with a release material. Commercially available release liners include but are not limited to silicone coated papers and silicone coated films such as polyester films. Suitable release liners are also disclosed in U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 835 422 6 805 933 6 780 484 and 6 204 350 assigned to 3M Innovative Properties Company.

The foam core and both adhesive skins were crosslinked on web using electron beam curing while supported on the liner. Two sequential irradiation steps acting on opposite faces of the tape were employed. The first skin adhesive was irradiated through the polyethylene liner whereas the second skin adhesive was irradiated in an open face condition. The electron beam units were BROADBAND curtain type electron beam processors PCT Engineered Systems LLC Davenport Iowa operated according the acceleration voltage and dose conditions provided in Table 4.

Into the mixture of the photopolymerizable monomers 2 EHA and AA was stirred 0.04 by weight of 2 2 dimethoxy 2 phenyl acetophenone obtainable as Irgacure 651 . This was partially polymerized to provide a syrup about 3000 cps in viscosity by exposure to ultraviolet radiation. To the syrup was added 0.20 by weight of additional Irgacure 651 and crosslinking agent HDDA. To this prepolymer mixture the fillers Aerosil 972 and the glass bubbles were added and slowly mixed using a motorized stirrer equipped with an air motor. After degassing and the addition of surfactant and pigments the mixture was transferred to a frother operating at 300 rpm.

While nitrogen gas was fed into the frother the frothed syrup was delivered through a tube to a knife coater between a pair of transparent biaxially oriented polyethylene terephthalate films the facing surfaces of which had low adhesion coatings. The composite emerging from the knife coater was irradiated with a bank of fluorescent black light bulbs Sylvania F20T12BL 90 of the emissions of which were between 300 and 400 nm with a maximum at 351 nm to complete the polymerisation to a pressure sensitive adhesive foam layer. The total exposure was 1360 mJ cmas measured by an EIT UV Radiometer which is spectrally responsive between 250 and 430 nm maximum 350 nm. The composite was cooled by blowing air against both films during the irradiation to keep the temperature of the films below 85 C. to avoid wrinkling of the films. The PET process liners finally are stripped and a double sided siliconized release paper liner is laminated to one of the two tape surfaces to allow for the roll winding and unwinding later on.

The following examples were generated by applying a layer of the above mentioned first skin adhesive SA 1 which was used to make Example A onto the surface of the foam layer of Example B followed by an e beam radiation process.

Several methods can be employed to apply a layer of the first skin adhesive onto the foam layer of Example B 

A Laminating a transfer tape obtained by hot melt coating the skin adhesive formulation onto a doublesided siliconized release carrier liner to the foam layer lamination force typically 50 N per web width. 

C Directly hotmelt coating onto the surface of the foam layer via an extrusion line and using a rotary rod die.

D Directly coating of a solvent based formulation of the skin adhesive onto the foam layer followed by an oven drying process.

Various e beam radiation curing conditions were employed Oxygen level in the e beam chamber always below 50 ppm .

The samples summarized in table 7 were adhered with the pressure sensitive adhesive skin layer to the substrate as indicated in the tables below which summarize the results obtained using the test methods set out above.

