---

title: Methods, systems, and articles of manufacture for constraint verification for implementing electronic circuit designs with electrical awareness
abstract: Disclosed are methods, systems, and articles of manufacture for constraint verification for implementing electronic circuit designs with electrical awareness. Some embodiments identify or set parasitic constraint(s) and compare the electrical parasitic(s) with corresponding parasitic constraint(s) to determine whether the parasitic constraints are met. Some embodiments first identify, determine, or update the physical data of a component of a partial layout and characterize the electrical parasitics associated with the physical data of the component. Some embodiments identify or determine some schematic level performance constraints and estimate parasitic constraints based on schematic simulation results and the performance constraints; the estimated parasitic constraints are then compared with the corresponding electrical parasitics to determine whether the constraints are satisfied. Some embodiments further map schematic level parasitic constraints to a physical design representation and then compares the mapped parasitic constraints with corresponding electrical constraints to determine whether the mapped constraints are met.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08762914&OS=08762914&RS=08762914
owner: Cadence Design Systems, Inc.
number: 08762914
owner_city: San Jose
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101230
---
This Application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional App. Ser. No. 61 367 398 filed on Jul. 24 2010 and entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR CONSTRAINT VERIFICATION FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS U.S. Provisional App. Ser. No. 61 367 412 filed on Jul. 24 2010 and entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS U.S. Provisional App. Ser. No. 61 367 404 filed on Jul. 24 2010 and entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURES FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRO MIGRATION AWARENESS U.S. Provisional App. Ser. No. 61 367 406 filed on Jul. 24 2010 and entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURES FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH IR DROP AWARENESS U.S. Provisional App. Ser. No. 61 367 407 filed on Jul. 24 2010 and entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURES FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH SIMULATION AWARENESS and U.S. Provisional App. Ser. No. 61 367 410 filed on Jul. 24 2010 and entitled METHOD APPARATUS AND ARTICLE OF MANUFACTURE FOR PROVIDING IN SITU CUSTOMIZABLE INFORMATION IN DESIGNING ELECTRONIC CIRCUITS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS . The entire contents of the aforementioned applications are hereby expressly incorporated by reference in their entirety.

This Application is related to U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 721 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 762 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURE FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH ELECTRO MIGRATION AWARENESS U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 790 entitled METHODS SYSTEMS AND ARTICLES OF MANUFACTURES FOR IMPLEMENTING ELECTRONIC CIRCUIT DESIGNS WITH SIMULATION AWARENESS and U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 982 628 entitled METHOD APPARATUS AND ARTICLE OF MANUFACTURE FOR PROVIDING IN SITU CUSTOMIZABLE INFORMATION IN DESIGNING ELECTRONIC CIRCUITS WITH ELECTRICAL AWARENESS . The entire disclosures of the above applications are hereby expressly incorporated by reference in their entireties in the instant Application.

The recent advances in very deep sub micron VDSM integrated circuits ICs have brought new challenges in the physical design methodology process of integrated systems.

For example most conventional electronic circuit design tools focus on post layout verification to verify for example whether parasitics satisfy the corresponding constraints when the entire chip design is complete and detailed information about the parasitics of the physical designs and the currents drawn by the transistors are known. In these conventional approaches the parasitics are extracted from the completed layout and then verified against the corresponding constraints. Moreover the conventional circuit synthesis step is followed by layout synthesis and each step is carried out independent of the other in these conventional approaches. This is again followed by a physical or formal verification step upon the completion of the entire physical layout to check whether the desired goals have been achieved after layout generation and extraction. These steps are carried out iteratively in the conventional approaches till the desired performance goals are met.

Nonetheless such an iterative approach wastes significant amount of resources because various physical design tools such as the placement tool the router etc. and various schematic design tools such as the schematic editor the schematic level simulator s etc. are unaware of the parasitics associated with the physical design of the electronic circuit and the electrical characteristics associated with the parasitics.

Thus there exists a need for constraint verification for implementing electronic circuit designs with electrical awareness early in the design stage.

What is needed is a method a system and a computer program product for constraint verification for implementing electronic circuit designs with electrical awareness. Some embodiments are directed at performing constraint verification during the implementation of the physical design of an electronic circuit. In one or more embodiments the method or system for constraint verification for implementing electronic circuit designs with electrical awareness identifies determines or updates the physical data of a net a device or a component hereinafter component collectively. In various embodiments the method or system may characterize shapes associated with a net and need to determine connectivity to identify one net from another. In some embodiments the method or the system may also comprise the process or module for identifying determining or characterizing an electrical parasitic that is associated with the component in the physical design. In some embodiments the method or the system may also comprise the process or module for identifying determining or characterizing a device parameter that is associated with the component in the physical design. In some embodiments the method or the system may also comprise the process or module for identifying determining or characterizing an electrical parasitic or a device parameter that is associated with the component in the physical design. In these embodiments the electrical parasitic and the device parameter are collectively referred to as electrical parasitic or simply parasitic .

In one or more embodiments the method or the system may identify or receive one or more constraints corresponding to the one or more parasitics. In these embodiments the methods or systems may then perform the process es to compare the one or more electrical parasitics with the corresponding parasitic constraints. More details about various processes or modules for the methods or systems for constraint verification for implementing electronic circuits with electrical awareness will be further described in the following paragraphs with reference to the respective figures.

In one or more embodiments the characterization of electrical parasitics such as but not limited to various types of R L or C for one or more shapes that constitute a net and the subsequent characterization of the electrical behavior or characteristic s such as but not limited to various types of currents voltages or current densities as well as the constraint verification occur as a single net or one or more shapes that are part of a net has been created or modified but before the creation or modification of the next net or one or more shapes that are part of the next net. These characterizations or verification may also occur incrementally as a net is being created or modified in some embodiments. The simulation produced terminal currents may be used as one or more nets that connect to these terminals are being created or modified in some embodiments. In addition these characterizations or verification may occur while there is only a partial layout in some embodiments. In these embodiments the simulation re simulation characterization or verification of the electronic circuit design may be performed in conjunction with the creation or modification of the physical design of an electronic circuit design so that any impact of a circuit component is addressed before the physical design is completed.

Various embodiments of the invention are directed to a methods systems and articles of manufacture for implementing electronic circuit designs with electrical awareness in one or more embodiments. Other objects features and advantages of the invention are described in the detailed description figures and claims.

Various embodiments will now be described in detail with reference to the drawings which are provided as illustrative examples of the invention so as to enable those skilled in the art to practice the invention. Notably the figures and the examples below are not meant to limit the scope of the invention. Where certain elements of the present invention can be partially or fully implemented using known components or methods or processes only those portions of such known components or methods or processes that are necessary for an understanding of the present invention will be described and the detailed descriptions of other portions of such known components or methods or processes will be omitted so as not to obscure the invention. Further various embodiments of the present invention encompasses present and future known equivalents to the components referred to herein by way of illustration.

In one or more embodiments the method or the system may comprise the process or module for identifying determining or updating the physical data of a net a device or a component hereinafter component collectively of a portion of a physical design of an electronic circuit for example a portion of a layout of the electronic design. In some embodiments the method or the system applies to an electronic design when the first component of the design is being implemented in a physical design tool such as a layout tool. In some embodiments the process for identifying determining or updating physical data of a component of an electronic circuit physical design may be invoked from within a physical design tool or flow such as a layout editor while the designer is implementing or modifying the physical design of the electronic circuit rather than from a post layout verification tool or flow in one or more embodiments. In some embodiments device recognition and connectivity tasks are performed to able to map electrical characteristics such as current at a given terminal with the proper nets attached to that terminal. In some embodiments connectivity can be directed to traverse the nets hierarchically and stop on levels determined by the user.

In these embodiments as illustrated in the method or the process may also comprise the process or module for characterizing one or more electrical parasitics that are associated with the physical data of the component.

In some embodiments the characterization of electrical parasitics associated with physical data may be done with a two stage approach. This process begins with the selection a particular net or partial net. In the first stage the process identifies where along that net that a geometric description should be created. The geometric descriptions may include wire widths and spacings conductor and ILD inter layer dielectrics thicknesses or thickness of barrier materials. A common description may be created and provided via an API application programming interface. 

The second stage may include one or more components that may translate transform convert or map hereinafter map the geometric description to an equivalent parasitic value such as a resistance capacitance or inductance. This translation transformation conversion or mapping hereinafter mapping may be done with mathematical algorithms or models that are often referred to as parasitic extraction. The models may be created through the use of semi empirical methods that combine models or knowledge of the underlying physics with data provided by various solver s simulator s or a combination thereof. In some cases the mapping for capacitance may also be done with a solver.

In some embodiments the second stage may use parasitic extraction for some nets and a field solver for other nets. In some embodiments the second stage may use a combination of parasitic extraction for for example resistance s and a field solver for for example capacitance s on the same net. In some embodiments the characterization of electrical parasitics may be performed with extraction tools that map geometric dimensions and patterns to corresponding parasitics such as R L and C. In some embodiments the characterization of electrical parasitics includes the use of field solvers such as but not limited to one or more EM field solvers that map geometric dimensions and patterns to capacitance s .

In a single embodiment or in some embodiments the electrical parasitic data associated with the physical data is provided to a matrix solver for static or transient analysis. The matrix solver is run to produce voltage and current data for device and interconnect components of the design. In a single embodiment or in some embodiments the method or system for implementing electronic circuit designs with simulation related constraints or performance expectations comprises a flow where the simulator or solver is invoked after a single net has been created or modified.

More details about the processes or modules and are described in the related applications listed in the section entitled CROSS REFERENCE TO RELATED APPLICATIONS of the instant Application the contents of those related applications are hereby expressly incorporated by reference in their entireties in the instant Application.

The method or the system may further comprise a process or a module for identifying one or more parasitic constraints that are associated with the one or more electrical parasitics in some embodiments. For example the method or the system may identify or receive the constraints on the resistance R the total coupling or capacitance coupled through substrate collectively C or inductance L of a net between two terminals from various sources such as a user a constraint manager that interacts with a constraint library or from the electronic circuit design tool set that comprises various tools in various domains e.g. the schematic domain the physical domain the post layout domain . . . etc.

In one or more embodiments the method or the system may further comprise the process or module of performing constraint verification for the one or more constraints associated with the one or more electrical parasitics. In some embodiments the process or module may comprise the process or module of comparing the one or more electrical constraints with the respective one or more constraints to determine whether the one or more constraints are satisfied.

In one or more embodiments the characterization of parasitics such as but not limited to various types of R L or C for one or more shapes that constitute a net and the subsequent characterization of the electrical behavior or characteristic s such as but not limited to various types of currents voltages or current densities as well as the constraint verification occur as a single net or one or more shapes that are part of a net has been created or modified but before the creation or modification of the next net or one or more shapes that are part of the next net. These characterizations or verification may also occur incrementally as a net is being created or modified in some embodiments. The simulation produced terminal currents may be used as one or more nets that connect to these terminals are being created or modified in some embodiments. In addition these characterizations or verification may occur while there is only a partial layout in some embodiments. In these embodiments the simulation re simulation characterization or verification of the electrical parasitics may be performed in conjunction with the creation or modification of the physical design of an electronic circuit design so that any impact of a circuit component is addressed before the physical design is completed.

In these embodiments as illustrated in the method or the process may also comprise the process or module for characterizing one or more electrical parasitics that are associated with the physical data of the component. The method or the system may further comprise a process or a module for identifying one or more parasitic constraints that are associated with the one or more electrical parasitics in some embodiments. In one or more embodiments the method or the system may further comprise the process or module of performing constraint verification for the one or more constraints associated with the one or more electrical parasitics.

In some embodiments the process or module may comprise the process or module of comparing the one or more electrical constraints with the respective one or more constraints to determine whether the one or more constraints are satisfied. The method or system as illustrated in may further optionally comprise the process or module for storing one or more results of the process or module in a non transitory computer readable storage medium or displaying the one or more results in the user interface on a display apparatus in some embodiments.

In these embodiments as illustrated in the method or the process may also comprise the process or module for characterizing one or more electrical parasitics that are associated with the physical data of the component. The method or the system may further comprise a process or a module for identifying or receiving one or more manual settings of parasitic constraints from a user in some embodiments. For example a designer may manually set the limit on the resistance of an interconnect between two terminals and the method or the system takes that limit as a constraint and determines whether the electrical parasitic R in this example of the interconnect satisfies the constraint that is manually entered by the designer.

In one or more embodiments the method or the system may further comprise the process or module of performing constraint verification for the one or more constraints associated with the one or more electrical parasitics. In some embodiments the process or module may comprise the process or module of comparing the one or more electrical constraints with the respective one or more constraints to determine whether the one or more constraints are satisfied.

The method or the system may also comprise the process or module for performing one or more simulations using at least the schematic design and the one or more performance or behavior constraints in some embodiments. The method or the system may further comprise the process or module for estimating one or more parasitic constraints based at least in part upon the result s of the one or more simulations and or the one or more performance or behavior constraints in some embodiments as illustrated in . For example the method or the system may use the currents voltages etc. determined in the schematic level simulations to estimate the constraints for the corresponding electrical parasitics in some embodiments.

The method or the system may also comprise the process or module for identifying determining or updating the physical data of a component of a portion of a physical design of an electronic circuit. The method or the process may also comprise the process or module for characterizing one or more electrical parasitics that are associated with the physical data of the component.

In one or more embodiments after or the method or the system may further comprise the process or module for performing constraint verification for the one or more constraints associated with the one or more electrical parasitics. In some embodiments the process or module may comprise the process or module of comparing the one or more electrical constraints with the respective one or more constraints to determine whether the one or more constraints are satisfied.

Once the one or more parasitics are characterized at and the one or more parasitic constraints are set identified or received at the method or the system may further comprise the process or module for verifying whether or not the one or more electrical parasitics meet the corresponding one or more parasitic constraints at in some embodiments. The method or the system may further optionally comprise the process or module for determining or computing one or more adjustments for the physical data in the event that some of the one or more parasitic constraints are not satisfied in some embodiments. In some embodiments an adjustment comprises creation of a new route or a segment thereof or modification of an existing route or a segment thereof. In some embodiments an adjustment comprises placement of a component in a physical design of an electronic circuit design.

In addition or in the alternative the method or the system may further comprise the process or module for providing one or more hints to correct the physical data in the event that some of the one or more parasitic constraints are not satisfied in some embodiments. In addition the method or the system may also optionally comprise the process or module for determining or checking to see whether the one or more adjustments or the one or more hints violate other design rule s constraint s or other requirement s . At the method or the system may comprise the process or module for applying either automatically or with assistance at least one of the one or more adjustments to fix the physical data of the component or the physical data of other elements that are also affected by the corresponding one or more electrical parasitics.

In addition or in the alternative the method or the system may comprise the process or module for identifying determining or updating the physical data of a component of a portion of a physical design of the electronic circuit in some embodiments. The method or the system may also comprise the process or module for characterizing one or more electrical parasitics that are associated with the physical data in some embodiments.

After the one or more electrical parasitics are characterized at or after the one or more parasitic constraints are mapped at the method or the system may further comprise the process or module for verifying whether the one or more electrical parasitics meet the one or more parasitic constraints in some embodiments. In these embodiments the method or the system may further optionally comprise the process or module for displaying the results of the act of verifying the parasitic constraints in a user interface on a display apparatus or storing the results on a non transitory computer readable storage medium in some embodiments.

After the one or more parasitic constraints are mapped at or after the one or more parasitic constraints are set identified or received at the method or the system may further comprise the process or module for verifying whether the one or more electrical parasitics meet the corresponding one or more parasitic constraints in some embodiments. In some embodiments the process or module comprise the process or module of comparing the one or more electrical parasitics with the corresponding one or more parasitic constraints to determine whether the one or more parasitic constraints are met. In these embodiments the method or the system may further optionally comprise the process or module for displaying the results of the act of verifying the parasitic constraints in a user interface on a display apparatus or storing the results on a non transitory computer readable storage medium in some embodiments.

The method or system for constraint verification for implementing electronic circuit design with electrical awareness may comprise the process or module of identifying or creating a schematic design at in some embodiments. The method or system for constraint verification for implementing electronic circuit designs with electrical awareness may further comprise the process or module for identifying or receiving a parasitic constraint at in some embodiments. The method or system for constraint verification for implementing electronic circuit designs with electrical awareness may further comprise the process or module for mapping the parasitic constraint at based at least in part upon the schematic to physical design representation in some embodiments.

The method or system for constraint verification for implementing electronic circuit designs with electrical awareness may further comprise the process or module for identifying determining or updating physical data of a net a device or a component of an electronic circuit physical design at in some embodiments. The method or system may also comprise the process or module for characterizing the electrical parasitic associated with the physical data at in some embodiments. After the process or module or the process or module the method or system may also proceed to the process or module for verifying the parasitic constraint at in some embodiments. In some embodiments the process or module may comprise the process or module for comparing the electrical parasitic with the parasitic constraint to determine whether the parasitic constraint is satisfied.

The method or system may also comprise the process or module for computing one or more adjustments or providing one or more hints to correct the physical data at in some embodiments where the parasitic constraint is not met. The method or system may further comprise the process or module for determining or checking to ensure the one or more adjustments or the one or more hints do not violate other constraints design rules or requirements at in some embodiments. The method or system may further comprise the process or module for applying at least one of the one or more adjustments to the component with which the physical data are associated at .

According to one embodiment computer system performs specific operations by one or more processors or processor cores executing one or more sequences of one or more instructions contained in system memory . Such instructions may be read into system memory from another computer readable usable storage medium such as static storage device or disk drive . In alternative embodiments hard wired circuitry may be used in place of or in combination with software instructions to implement the invention. Thus embodiments of the invention are not limited to any specific combination of hardware circuitry and or software. In one embodiment the term logic shall mean any combination of software or hardware that is used to implement all or part of the invention.

Various actions or processes as described in the preceding paragraphs may be performed by using one or more processors one or more processor cores or combination thereof where the one or more processors one or more processor cores or combination thereof executes one or more threads. For example the act of specifying various net or terminal sets or the act or module of performing verification or simulation etc. may be performed by one or more processors one or more processor cores or combination thereof. In one embodiment the parasitic extraction current solving current density computation and current or current density verification is done in memory as layout shapes or nets are created or modified.

The term computer readable storage medium or computer usable storage medium as used herein refers to any medium that participates in providing instructions to processor for execution. Such a medium may take many forms including but not limited to non volatile media and volatile media. Non volatile media includes for example optical or magnetic disks such as disk drive . Volatile media includes dynamic memory such as system memory .

Common forms of computer readable storage media includes for example electromechanical disk drives such as a floppy disk a flexible disk or a hard disk a flash based RAM based such as SRAM DRAM SDRAM DDR MRAM etc. or any other solid state drives SSD magnetic tape any other magnetic or magneto optical medium CD ROM any other optical medium any other physical medium with patterns of holes RAM PROM EPROM FLASH EPROM any other memory chip or cartridge or any other medium from which a computer can read.

In an embodiment of the invention execution of the sequences of instructions to practice the invention is performed by a single computer system . According to other embodiments of the invention two or more computer systems coupled by communication link e.g. LAN PTSN or wireless network may perform the sequence of instructions required to practice the invention in coordination with one another.

Computer system may transmit and receive messages data and instructions including program i.e. application code through communication link and communication interface . Received program code may be executed by processor as it is received and or stored in disk drive or other non volatile storage for later execution. In an embodiment the computer system operates in conjunction with a data storage system e.g. a data storage system that contains a database that is readily accessible by the computer system . The computer system communicates with the data storage system through a data interface . A data interface which is coupled to the bus transmits and receives electrical electromagnetic or optical signals that include data streams representing various types of signal information e.g. instructions messages and data. In embodiments of the invention the functions of the data interface may be performed by the communication interface .

In the foregoing specification the invention has been described with reference to specific embodiments thereof. It will however be evident that various modifications and changes may be made thereto without departing from the broader spirit and scope of the invention. For example the above described process flows are described with reference to a particular ordering of process actions. However the ordering of many of the described process actions may be changed without affecting the scope or operation of the invention. The specification and drawings are accordingly to be regarded in an illustrative rather than restrictive sense.

