---

title: Low frequency diversity antenna system
abstract: A diversity antenna system that operates within a low frequency band ranging from 700 Megahertz is disclosed. A plurality of antennas are folded onto a single printed circuit in a meander pattern configuration. Each antenna has an independent feed port and ground pin. The plurality of antennas are configured within a compact mobile phone space to produce a high isolation and low correlation at resonating frequencies within the 700 Megahertz frequency band.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08730110&OS=08730110&RS=08730110
owner: BlackBerry Limited
number: 08730110
owner_city: Waterloo
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100305
---
This disclosure relates to a diversity antenna arrangement for a mobile terminal and more specifically to the design and implementation of a diversity antenna system that operates within a fundamental resonant low frequency band of 700 Megahertz MHz .

The design and implementation of multiple antennas with independent transmit and receive paths on a mobile terminal introduces significant design challenges for compact devices that operate in a low frequency range. The Long Term Evolution frequency spectrum or range supports a number of frequency bands including a 746 787 MHz band 882 960 MHz band 1710 2155 MHz band and 2500 2700 MHz frequency band. In the low frequency bands such as frequency bands the design of multiple antennas on a mobile terminal such as the 746 787 MHz band mobile cellular handsets smart phone s hand held computers and other such devices known to one skilled in the art require design considerations to facilitate and improve antenna isolation and reduce antenna correlation. The efficiency of an antenna system with multiple antennas is increased by greater isolation and lower correlation between the antenna elements. It is typically a challenge to achieve low correlation and high isolation in mobile terminals of compact size and limited internal space for components.

It should be understood at the outset that although an illustrative implementation of one or more embodiments are provided below the description is not to be considered as limiting the scope of the embodiments described herein. The disclosure may be implemented using any number of techniques whether currently known or in existence. The disclosure should in no way be limited to the illustrative implementations drawings and techniques illustrated and described herein which may be modified within the scope of the appended claims along with a full scope of equivalence. It should be appreciated that for simplicity and clarity of illustration where considered appropriate the reference numerals may be repeated among the figures to indicate corresponding or analogous elements.

According to an illustrative embodiment a mobile communication device comprises a plurality of antennas coupled to a single planar dielectric substrate. Each antenna comprises a plurality of radiating conductive strips configured in a meander pattern. A first antenna of the plurality of antennas is disposed at a first corner of the dielectric substrate a second antenna of the plurality of antennas is disposed at a second corner of the dielectric substrate opposite the first corner and a third antenna of the plurality of antennas is disposed at a corner opposite the first antenna and diagonal with respect to the position of the second antenna. The mobile communication device also comprises a plurality of feed ports. A first feed port is coupled to the first antenna a second feed port is coupled to the second antenna and a third feed port is coupled to the third antenna. The mobile communication device also comprises a plurality of ground pins wherein a first ground pin is coupled to the first antenna and positioned in a vertical coordinate direction with respect to the first feed port a second ground pin is coupled to the second antenna and positioned in a horizontal coordinate direction with respect to the second feed port and a third ground pin is coupled to the third antenna and positioned in a horizontal coordinate direction with respect to the second feed port.

In accordance with another embodiment of the disclosure an antenna arrangement for a mobile communication device comprises a plurality of antennas each antenna being configured in a meander pattern with a plurality of radiating conductive strips folded onto a single planar dielectric a plurality of feed ports wherein each feed port is dedicated to exciting a single antenna of the plurality of antennas wherein a number of antennas radiate at a same time within a range of low frequencies.

In accordance with a further embodiment of the disclosure a communication network comprising a plurality of antenna arrangements is disclosed. Each antenna arrangement comprises a plurality of radiating conductive strips configured in a meander pattern a plurality of feed ports and a plurality of ground pins. A first antenna in an antenna arrangement of the plurality of antenna arrangements is disposed at a first corner of the dielectric substrate a second antenna of the plurality of antennas is disposed at a second corner of the dielectric substrate opposite the first corner and a third antenna of the plurality of antennas is disposed at a corner opposite the first antenna and diagonal with respect to the position of the second antenna. A first feed port of the plurality of feed ports is coupled to the first antenna a second feed port is coupled to a second antenna and a third feed port is coupled to a third antenna. A first ground pin of the plurality of ground pins is coupled to the first antenna and positioned in a vertical direction with respect to the first feed port a second ground pin is coupled to a second antenna and positioned in a horizontal direction with respect to the second feed port and a third ground pin is coupled to a third antenna and positioned in a horizontal direction with respect to the second feed port.

The present disclosure provides a plurality of antennas arranged on a single printed circuit board and configured for operation in a mobile communication device within a low frequency band and particularly within the 700 MHz frequency band. The electrical length of each antenna is sized to around a quarter of a wavelength. The radiation elements of each antenna comprise strips of conducting material that are folded onto or coupled to a dielectric to reduce the size of the antenna and enable a number of antennas to fit within a space commonly provided by a mobile communication device. As used herein a first component coupled to a second component means that there are no additional components present between the first component and the second component.

In embodiments of this disclosure the radiation elements may lie in or be located in the same plane that contains the feed port of the radiation elements. The plane may run in an X direction and Y direction according to a rectangular coordinate or Cartesian system. In other embodiments a radiation element may lie in a planar direction that is different from the plane that contains the feed port of the radiation element. For example the radiation element may run in Z direction according to a rectangular coordinate system that may be symmetric about the plane that contains the feed port.

Each antenna includes a feed port that may operate simultaneously or approximately at a same time and independently. The radiation elements of each antenna are laid out in a meander pattern. The meander pattern may be bent into shapes that form a number of slots. The layout of each antenna may be arranged or oriented in orthogonal directions to enable polarization diversity and reduce coupling between the antennas during operation.

In illustrative embodiments of this disclosure the plurality of antennas may include a number of antennas that operate to receive and transmit radio frequency signals. For example in an illustrative embodiment that comprises two antennas one antenna may operate as a receiver and one antenna may operate as a transmitter. In an illustrative embodiment that comprises three antennas two antennas may operate as receivers and one antenna may operate as a transmitter. The antennas may operate simultaneously or separately depending on implementation. As used within this disclosure a number of refers to one or more items.

Turning now to an isometric planar view of an antenna diversity system is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment of the disclosure. Antenna diversity system includes an arrangement of a plurality of antennas mounted on a dielectric substrate . Antenna arrangement is disposed or located within a housing for a mobile communication device or mobile terminal. In the depicted embodiment dielectric substrate supports a first antenna second antenna and third antenna . First antenna second antenna and third antenna are connected to independent feed ports and may individually resonate in separate frequency bands. It must be noted that the number of antennas arranged and illustrated on dielectric substrate is not limited to the number or arrangement depicted in antenna arrangement .

Each antenna is supported by dielectric substrate and includes a separate feed port and ground pin. The antennas may include but are in no way limited to a planar inverted F antenna PIFA an inverted F antenna IFA a type of monopole antenna a type of electrical dipole element such as an isolated magnetic dipole antenna or other such antenna elements known to one skilled in the art.

Each antenna connected to dielectric substrate includes a ground or shorting pin connection and an independent feed port. In the depicted example first antenna includes first ground pin and first feed port . Second antenna element includes second ground pin and second feed port . Third antenna includes third ground pin and third feed port . First ground pin second ground pin and third ground pin connect to ground plane . First feed port second feed port and third feed port may connect to each respective antenna elements first antenna second antenna and third antenna through openings or slots in ground plane . As illustrated in the arrangements of the feed ports and the ground pins are not meant to imply any physical or architectural limitations to the manner in which different advantageous embodiments may be implemented. Other arrangements are possible as would be recognized by one skilled in the art.

Ground plane is planar and parallel to dielectric substrate . The antenna elements first antenna second antenna and third antenna may be mounted to outer and side surfaces of dielectric substrate . First antenna second antenna and third antenna may each be positioned substantially at around or near an edge of a dielectric substrate that is polygonal in shape. In a preferred embodiment the polygonal shaped dielectric substrate may be rectangular. In another embodiment the polygonal shaped dielectric substrate may be square.

Dielectric substrate may be formed from a material that includes but is in no way limited to air fiberglass plastic and ceramic. In an illustrative embodiment ground plane may be embedded in dielectric substrate . In another illustrative embodiment ground plane may be located under the dielectric substrate . In yet another embodiment ground plane may be disposed at a certain height from dielectric substrate as depicted in the illustrative embodiment of .

The antenna elements of antenna arrangement may have dual polarizations or polarization in both an X direction Y direction and Z direction. For example first antenna is polarized in a Y linear direction based on the orientation of first feed port with respect to first ground pin . First feed port and first ground pin are oriented at a ninety degree angle with respect to each other. Second antenna is polarized in an X linear direction based on the orientation of second feed port with respect to second ground pin antenna. Second feed port and second ground pin are oriented at a one hundred eighty degree angle with respect to each other. Third antenna is polarized in a Y linear direction based on the orientation of third feed port with respect to third ground pin . Third feed port and first ground pin are oriented at a ninety degree angle with respect to each other. In an embodiment there may also be polarization in a Z direction.

In an illustrative embodiment third antenna may be positioned at an opposite edge and substantially within the same plane of dielectric substrate at a distance that is diagonally across from or at approximately a forty five degree angle from the location of second antenna . First antenna and second antenna may be located across from each other at opposite edges and substantially within the same plane of the dielectric substrate at approximately ninety degree angles within the plane of the antenna elements.

Turning now to oblique side views including and of antenna arrangement is depicted in accordance with an illustrative embodiment of the disclosure. In the depicted examples of antenna arrangement represent oblique side views of an implementation of antenna arrangement in .

Referring first to antenna arrangement is an arrangement that includes first antenna second antenna and third antenna mounted on a type of support such as a dielectric substrate printed circuit board or other type of mounting object known to one skilled in the art. In the illustrative embodiment antenna arrangement is a planar arrangement. In an embodiment dielectric substrate may be may be positioned on or over an opposing surface of ground plane . In another embodiment dielectric substrate may include a ground plane embedded within.

First antenna comprises a plurality of conductive strips that may be connected together through soldering or other attachment means known to one skilled in the art. Conductive strips may vary in width and length and may be formed from a type of metal such as copper or other elements know in the art for good conducting properties. The interconnecting electrically conductive strips are electrically connected to each other to form various patterns on the outer surface of dielectric substrate . In an embodiment the conductive strips may be bent into a meander pattern. A meander pattern is a loop pattern that may be configured or bent to form a variety of different shapes. The meander pattern may be configured to form a number of slots within the antenna.

First antenna includes first ground pin and first feed port oriented in a substantially ninety degree angle from each other. Additionally the conductive strips are laid out and connected together in a substantially vertical or Y planar or linear direction. The orientation of the feed ports and the layout of the interconnecting microstrip elements of antenna produce a polarization in the Y direction.

Second antenna comprises a plurality of conductive strips that are electrically interconnected through soldering or other attachment means known to one skilled in the art. Similar to first antenna the interconnecting conductive strips may be formed from a conducting metal that has good conducting properties known to those skilled in the art. The interconnecting electrically conductive strips are electrically connected to each other to form various patterns on outer surface of dielectric substrate . In an embodiment the conductive strips may be bent into a meander pattern which may include a number of slots.

Second antenna includes second ground pin and second feed port oriented in a substantially one hundred and eighty degree angle from each other. Additionally the conductive strips are laid out and connected together in a substantially horizontal or X planar linear direction. Second feed port is independent from first feed port . The orientation of the feed ports and the layout of the interconnecting microstrip elements of antenna produce a polarization in the X direction.

Third antenna includes third ground pin and third feed port oriented in a substantially ninety degree angle from each other. Third feed port is independent from all other feed ports first feed port and second feed port on antenna arrangement . The orientation of the feed ports and the layout of the interconnecting microstrip elements of antenna produce a polarization in the Y direction.

Additionally similar to first antenna and second antenna the conductive strips are laid out and connected together in a substantially vertical or Y planar or linear direction. Third antenna comprises a plurality of conductive strips . The interconnecting electrically conductive strips are electrically connected to each other to form various patterns on outer surface of dielectric substrate . In an embodiment the conductive strips may form a meander pattern on the surface of dielectric and extend along and over the edge of a number of sides of dielectric . The meander pattern may also include a number of slots.

In an illustrative embodiment first antenna second antenna and third antenna may be selectively configured for transmitting or receiving simultaneously or separately. For example in one illustrative antenna diversity system first antenna and second antenna may be paired as receiving antennas to cover or handle uplink transmissions while third antenna operates as a transmitting antenna to handle downlink transmissions. Uplink transmissions are radio frequency transmissions from user equipment to a base station. Downlink transmissions are radio frequency transmissions from a base station to user equipment.

The illustration of antenna arrangement in is not meant to imply physical or architectural limitations to the manner in which different advantageous embodiments may be implemented. For example in an advantageous embodiment the antenna arrangement may include two antennas with a first antenna configured to operate on uplink transmission and a second antenna configured to operate on downlink transmissions.

In another advantageous embodiment more than three antennas may be arranged on a single dielectric substrate. In yet another advantageous embodiment an antenna arrangement may be configured with a plurality of antennas from which two or more may be selected for receiving and transmitting radio frequency signals. A spatial distance of at least 200 mm is required in order to achieve high isolation and reduce coupling between the first antenna and second antenna.

In the illustrative embodiment of antenna arrangement of although the distance between the antenna elements such as first antenna and second antenna may be less that 200 mm the orientation of the feed ports and ground pins result in polarization in orthogonal or opposing linear X and Y directions that enables good isolation between the first antenna and second antenna . The orthogonal polarization results in a polarization diversity that reduces signal fading within a system. Additionally the spatial distance between second antenna and third antenna may be positioned at a diagonal distance on dielectric substrate . A diagonal distance is the largest possible spacing that may exist between antennas in a same plane. Second antenna includes a feed port and ground pin that enable polarization in a linear X direction. Third antenna includes a feed port and ground pin that enables polarization in a linear Y direction. The opposite or orthogonal linear polarization enables good isolation between second antenna and third antenna .

Referring next to oblique side view an oblique partial side view of antenna arrangement from a second perspective that illustrates the configuration of third antenna is illustrated. also illustrates an exemplary current distribution of antenna arrangement at a specific point in time.

The current distribution of antenna arrangement may change based on a specified frequency of operation. At a distance of about one half lambda 

Third antenna has a meander pattern that extends along an X direction a Y direction and a Z direction. Third antenna includes third ground pin and third feed port . Third ground pin is oriented or laid out at a ninety degree angle in a linear Y direction from third feed port . Third antenna is comprised of conductive strips in a meander pattern that is disposed on and about dielectric substrate . The orientation of second feed port with respect to third ground pin and the layout of the interconnecting conductive strip elements of third antenna causes polarization in a linear Y direction. In an illustrative embodiment first antenna and second antenna may be the only two antennas operating on dielectric substrate .

In an illustrative embodiment first antenna and second antenna may operate as a pair of antenna receivers that receive radio signals simultaneously on a same frequency. The opposing or orthogonal polarizations of second antenna and third antenna enables high isolation and reduced coupling between second antenna and third antenna . Similarly the opposing or orthogonal polarization between first antenna and second antenna enables good isolation. A distance particularly a diagonal distance between second antenna and third antenna may also enable good isolation and reduced coupling

Turning now to display of a port network analyzer illustrates a measurement of return loss at separate feed ports of antennas in an antenna arrangement according to an illustrative embodiment of the disclosure. In this depicted example display is an example of the return loss measured from feed ports of antenna elements in antenna arrangement in . It must be noted that display provides measurements based on an actual antenna system environment and not based on a simulated or free space environment.

Return loss is the ratio of reflected power to incident power as measured at the feed port of an antenna. Return loss is expressed in decibels. The X axis of measured return loss graph provides the frequency of a radio signal in Megahertz. The Y axis expresses in decibels dB the ratio of reflected and incident signals to a port. In this illustrative embodiment an antenna arrangement such as antenna arrangement of is configured to operate in a 700 MHz range between a frequency of about 746 MHz at Mkr3 and a frequency of about 799 MHz at Mrk1 .

As illustrated display of port network analyzer illustrates traces of three different signals. Signal trace 1 Trc1 illustrates the return loss measured at third feed port of third antenna . Signal trace 3 Trc3 illustrates the return loss measured at second feed port of second antenna . Signal trace 2 Trc2 tracks the isolation measured between second antenna and third antenna as frequency increases.

The reflected and incident power signals may be represented by reflection coefficients known as scattering or S parameters. The scattering parameters define energy or power of a network in terms of impedance and admittance. The scattering parameters include Sand S. Srepresents the input reflection coefficient at a first port. Srepresents the output reflection coefficient at a second port. Sand Sprovide an indication of how much power is reflected. Sshows the isolation between two antennas within an antenna arrangement or antenna diversity system

Measured return loss display illustrates the scattering or S parameters of antenna arrangement depicted in . Measured return loss display illustrates measurements of the input reflection coefficient output reflection coefficient and reversed transmission coefficient at two different ports of the antenna arrangement.

The return loss of antenna arrangement is measured at two separate antenna ports. In the illustrative embodiment of Scorresponds to the return loss analyzed and measured at feed port of third antenna as illustrated by signal trace 1 Trc1 . Scorresponds to the return loss analyzed at feed port of second antenna as illustrated by signal trace 3 Trc3 .

S Trc3 and S Trc1 measure the coupling and reflection of the third and second antenna respectively. The value of the isolation is illustrated by Strace 2 Trc2 . Within the 700 band resonant frequency the isolation may be optimum at Mkr4 at a frequency of about 752 MHZ with an isolation of about 19 decibels dB . An isolation value within a range of between 15 and 20 decibels is considered optimum within the 700 MegaHertz frequency range.

Turning now to a three dimensional view of a normalized radiation pattern measured from at least two ports of the antenna array is depicted according to an illustrative embodiment of the system. In the illustrative embodiment normalized radiation pattern is illustrated by a port 1 view as measured from second feed port of second antenna and a port 2 view as measured from third feed port of third antenna as illustrated in . It must be noted that radiation pattern provides measurements based on an actual antenna system environment and not based on a simulated or free space environment.

Radiation pattern illustrates a three dimensional view of the minimum and maximum radiated power or gain measured at a large distance from the antenna. The large distance is about

Port 1 pattern and port 2 pattern illustrates radiation patterns that are directional. Directional radiation patterns radiate signals of high power or gain in a specific direction. In this embodiment the maximum radiated power as illustrated is about 21 dB. The directional radiation patterns of port 1 and port 2 exemplify or illustrate pattern diversity as the radiation pattern of port 1 differs from the radiation pattern of port 2 .

Within any frequency range it is optimum to have the power that is radiated be as large as possible. In the illustrative embodiment of plot the frequency range of interest is around 745 MHz to 787 MHz . The maximum radiation power or efficiency is achieved at around 755 MHz at fifty percent 50 .

Referring now to a block diagram of mobile communication device is illustrated according to an illustrative embodiment of the disclosure. Mobile communication device may be a mobile wireless communication device such as a mobile cellular device herein referred to as a mobile device that may function as a Smartphone which may be configured according to an information technology IT policy. Mobile communication device may be configured to an antenna arrangement such as antenna arrangement depicted in .

Mobile communication device includes communication elements in communication subsystem that may be configured to operate with a plurality of antennas on a dielectric substrate such as dielectric substrate of . Antenna system may be configured to support multiple input multiple output technology. Antenna system may include a plurality of antennas for simultaneous or individual radio frequency signal transmissions.

The term information technology in general refers to a collection of information technology rules in which the information technology policy rules may be defined as being either grouped or non grouped and global or per user. The terms grouped non grouped global and per user are defined further below. Examples of applicable communication devices include pagers mobile cellular phones cellular smart phones wireless organizers personal digital assistants computers laptops handheld wireless communication devices wirelessly enabled notebook computers and such other communication devices.

The mobile device is a two way communication device with advanced data communication capabilities including the capability to communicate with other mobile devices computer systems and assistants through a network of transceivers. In the mobile device includes a number of components such as main processor that controls the overall operation of user equipment . Communication functions are performed through communication subsystem . Communication subsystem receives messages from and sends messages across wireless link to wireless network .

Communications subsystem provides for communication between the mobile device and different systems or devices such as antenna system without the use of the wireless network . For example communications subsystem may include an infrared device and associated circuits and components for short range communication. Examples of short range communication standards include standards developed by the Infrared Data Association IrDA Bluetooth and the 802.11 family of standards developed by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE . Short range communications may include for example without limitation radio frequency signals within a 2.4 GHz band or a 5.8 GHz band.

In this illustrative embodiment of the mobile device the communication subsystem is configured in accordance with the Global System for Mobile Communication GSM and General Packet Radio Services GPRS standards. The GSM GPRS wireless network is used worldwide and it is expected that these standards will be superseded eventually by for example without limitation Evolved Enhanced Data GSM Environment EEDGE Universal Mobile Telecommunications Service UMTS High Speed Packet Access HSPA Long Term Evolution LTE and other standards applicable to multiple input multiple output technology. New standards are still being defined but it is believed that they will have similarities to the network behavior described herein and it will also be understood by persons skilled in the art that the embodiments described herein are intended to use any other suitable standards that are developed in the future.

The wireless link connecting the communication subsystem with wireless network represents one or more different radio frequency RF channels operating according to defined protocols specified for GSM GPRS communications. With newer network protocols these channels are capable of supporting both circuit switched voice communications and packet switched data communications. Antenna arrangements such as antenna arrangement of are implemented by antenna system of communication subsystem . Antenna arrangement is implemented between network and main processor and enables the mobile communication device to have a higher data rate and a higher throughput based on high correlation and isolation.

Although the wireless network associated with mobile device may be a GSM GPRS EDGE wireless network in one illustrative implementation other wireless networks may also be associated with the mobile device in variant implementations. Examples of these networks include but are not limited to Code Division Multiple Access CDMA or CDMA2000 networks GSM GPRS EDGE networks as mentioned above third generation 3G networks such as UMTS and HSPA and also future fourth generation 4G networks such as LTE and Worldwide Interoperability for Microwave Access WiMax .

The main processor also interacts with additional subsystems such as Random Access Memory RAM a flash memory a display an auxiliary input output I O subsystem a data port a keyboard a speaker a microphone and other device subsystems .

Some of the subsystems of the mobile device perform communication related functions whereas other subsystems may provide resident or on device functions. By way of example the display and the keyboard may be used for both communication related functions such as entering a text message for transmission over the network and device resident functions such as a calculator or task list.

The mobile device can send and receive communication signals over the wireless network after required network registration or activation procedures have been completed. Network access is associated with a subscriber or user of the mobile device . To identify a subscriber the mobile device requires a Subscriber Identity Module or a Removable User Identity Module SIM RUIM module to be inserted into a SIM RUIM interface in order to communicate with a network. The SIM RUIM module is one type of a conventional smart card that can be used to identify a subscriber of the mobile device and to personalize the mobile device among other things. Without the SIM RUIM module the mobile device is not fully operational for communication with the wireless network .

By inserting the SIM RUIM module into the SIM RUIM interface a subscriber can access all subscribed services. Services may include web browsing and messaging such as e mail voice mail Short Message Service SMS and Multimedia Messaging Services MMS . More advanced services may include point of sale field service and sales force automation. The SIM RUIM module includes a processor and memory for storing information. Once the SIM RUIM module is inserted into the SIM RUIM interface it is coupled to the main processor . In order to identify the subscriber the SIM RUIM module can include some user parameters such as an International Mobile Subscriber Identity IMSI .

An advantage of using the SIM RUIM module is that a subscriber is not necessarily bound by any single physical mobile device. The SIM RUIM module may store additional subscriber information for a mobile device as well including datebook or calendar information and recent call information. Alternatively user identification information can also be programmed into the flash memory . The mobile device is a battery powered device and includes a battery interface for receiving one or more rechargeable batteries . In at least some embodiments the battery can be a smart battery with an embedded microprocessor. The battery interface is coupled to a regulator not shown which assists the battery in providing power V to the mobile device . Although current technology makes use of a battery future technologies such as micro fuel cells may provide the power to the mobile device .

The mobile device also includes an operating system and software components to which are described in more detail below. The operating system and the software components to that are executed by the main processor are typically stored in a persistent store such as the flash memory which may alternatively be a read only memory ROM or similar storage element not shown . Those skilled in the art will appreciate that portions of the operating system and the software components to such as specific device applications or parts thereof may be temporarily loaded into a volatile store such as the RAM . Other software components can also be included as is well known to those skilled in the art.

The software applications can further include a device state module a Personal Information Manager PIM and other suitable modules not shown . The device state module provides persistence which means that the device state module ensures that important device data is stored in persistent memory such as the flash memory so that the data is not lost when the mobile device is turned off or loses power.

The PIM includes functionality for organizing and managing data items of interest to the user such as but not limited to e mail contacts calendar events voice mails appointments and task items. A PIM application has the ability to send and receive data items via the wireless network

The mobile device also includes a connect module and an information technology IT policy module . The connect module implements the communication protocols that are required for the mobile device to communicate with the wireless infrastructure and any host system such as an enterprise system with which the mobile device is authorized to interface.

The connect module includes a set of application programming interfaces APIs that can be integrated with the mobile device to allow the mobile device to use any number of services associated with the enterprise system. The connect module allows the mobile device to establish an end to end secure authenticated communication pipe with the host system. A subset of applications for which access is provided by the connect module can be used to pass IT policy commands from the host system to the mobile device . This can be done in a wireless or wired manner.

The IT policy module receives IT policy data that encodes the IT policy. The IT policy module then ensures that the IT policy data is authenticated by the mobile device . The IT policy data can then be stored in the flash memory in its native form. After the IT policy data is stored a global notification can be sent by the IT policy module to all of the applications residing on the mobile device . Applications for which the IT policy may be applicable then respond by reading the IT policy data to look for IT policy rules that are applicable.

Other types of software applications can also be installed on the mobile device . These software applications can be third party applications which are added after the manufacture of the mobile device . Examples of third party applications include games calculators utilities and other similar applications know to one skilled in the art.

The additional applications can be loaded onto the mobile device through the wireless network the auxiliary I O subsystem the data port the communication subsystem or any other suitable device subsystem . This flexibility in application installation increases the functionality of the mobile device and may provide enhanced on device functions communication related functions or both.

The data port enables a subscriber to set preferences through an external device or software application and extends the capabilities of the mobile device by providing for information or software downloads to the mobile device other than through a wireless communication network. The alternate download path may for example be used to load an encryption key onto the mobile device through a direct and thus reliable and trusted connection to provide secure device communication.

The data port may be any suitable port that enables data communication between the mobile device and another computing device. The data port may be a serial or a parallel port. In some instances the data port may be a USB port that includes data lines for data transfer and a supply line that can provide a charging current to charge the battery of the mobile device .

In operation a received signal such as a text message an e mail message or web page download will be processed by the communication subsystem and input to the main processor . The main processor will then process the received signal for output to the display or alternatively to the auxiliary I O subsystem . A subscriber may also compose data items such as e mail messages for example using the keyboard in conjunction with the display and possibly the auxiliary I O subsystem . The auxiliary I O subsystem may include devices such as a touch screen mouse track ball infrared fingerprint detector or a roller wheel with dynamic button pressing capability. The keyboard is preferably an alphanumeric keyboard together with or without a telephone type keypad. However other types of keyboards may also be used. A composed data item may be transmitted over the wireless network through the communication subsystem .

For voice communications the overall operation of the mobile device is substantially similar except that the received signals are output to the speaker and signals for transmission are generated by the microphone . Alternative voice or audio I O subsystems such as a voice message recording subsystem can also be implemented on the mobile device . Although voice or audio signal output is accomplished primarily through the speaker the display can also be used to provide additional information such as the identity of a calling party duration of a voice call or other voice call related information.

Turning now to a wireless communication network implementing the diversity antenna system of according to an embodiment of the disclosure is illustrated. Communication system depicts an implementation of wireless mobile communication devices such as mobile communication device of transmitting radio frequency signals.

Communication system may include wireless communication systems that include a plurality of antennas operating within a single device including but in no way limited to multiple input multiple output MIMO radio systems single input single output SISO communication systems long term evolution LTE communication systems and other such communication systems that may be recognized by one skilled in the art.

In the illustrative embodiment mobile communication device and mobile communication device may include an antenna arrangement such as antenna arrangement of . Mobile communication device may receive a radio frequency signal represented mathematically as time varying signal S t where N represents any positive integer greater than zero.

Signal S t is a time domain signal that may comprise a plurality of signals. The time domain signals of S t are sampled and converted into weighted time domain signals by a signal processor using a processing algorithm. The weighted time domain signals include without limitation weighted time domain signals A A and A. The processing algorithm used by signal processor may be any number of algorithms currently known and recognized by those skilled in the art.

The weighted time domain signals are transmitted over antennas A A and A respectively. Each antenna may be a separate antenna as represented in antenna arrangement of . For example in an exemplary embodiment antenna A may be representative of first antenna antenna A may be representative of second antenna and antenna A may be representative of third antenna . The radio frequency signals are transmitted over radio channel to mobile communication device . Radio channel comprises a plurality of communication paths.

Mobile communication device receives frequency domain signals such as without limitation frequency domain signals yA yA and yA over antennas A A and A respectively. Each antenna may be a separate antenna as represented in antenna arrangement of . For example in an exemplary embodiment antenna A may be representative of first antenna antenna A may be representative of second antenna and antenna A may be representative of third antenna .

The frequency domain signals are decoded and transformed by signal processor to obtain information represented by time domain signal y t where N represents any positive integer greater than zero. The processing algorithm used by signal processor may be any number of algorithms currently known and recognized by those skilled in the art. Time domain signal y t may comprise a plurality of time domain signals or samples as would be recognized by one skilled in the art.

Communication system is not meant to imply physical or architectural limitations to the manner in which different advantageous embodiments may be implemented. Other components in addition to or in place of the ones illustrated may be used. Some components may be unnecessary in some advantageous embodiments. For example the plurality mobile communication devices and respectively may include an antenna arrangement such as antenna arrangement of that has a plurality of antennas that are capable of simultaneously receiving or transmitting radio frequency signals.

For example in the depicted embodiment of antenna A and antenna A of mobile communication device may form a pair of antennas for receiving radio frequency signals at a same time or substantially at a same time over radio channel while antenna A also transmits signals over radio channel .

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein.

While several embodiments have been provided in the present disclosure it should be understood that the disclosed systems and methods may be embodied in many other specific forms without departing from the spirit or scope of the present disclosure. The present examples are to be considered as illustrative and not restrictive and the intention is not to be limited to the details given herein.

The embodiment or embodiments selected are chosen and described in order to best explain the principles of the embodiments the practical application and to enable others of ordinary skill in the art to understand the disclosure for various embodiments with various modifications as are suited to the particular use contemplated. For example the various elements or components may be combined or integrated in another system or certain features may be omitted or not implemented.

