---

title: Apparatus and methods for providing intelligent battery management
abstract: Various embodiments for providing enhanced battery conservation in mobile devices are described. In one or more embodiments, a mobile computing device may include a processor and a battery to supply power to the processor. The device may store user pattern data and/or user preference data. The device may further include a power management module coupled to the processor. The power management module may monitor a location of the device, wireless signal strength, and date/time. The power management module may also monitor and analyze user operation of the device to identify scenarios in which wireless communications can be suspended. The power management module may suspend wireless communication according to these monitored conditions, and analyzed user operations, to reduce battery consumption. Other embodiments are described and claimed.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08452353&OS=08452353&RS=08452353
owner: Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
number: 08452353
owner_city: Houston
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100224
---
A mobile computing device such as a combination handheld computer and mobile telephone or smart phone generally may provide voice and data communications functionality as well as computing and processing capabilities. The expanding capabilities and modes of communication of such mobile devices can drain the battery if not managed effectively. Accordingly there may be a need for an improved apparatus and methods for providing intelligent battery management.

Various embodiments are directed to providing intelligent battery management on mobile computing devices. In one or more embodiments a mobile computing device may monitor various aspects such as the device s location the date and time calendar events user patterns and the like. The mobile computing device may automatically disable power consuming operations in particular wireless communications for example cell phone signal searching and other radio communications in certain specified scenarios.

The mobile computing device may provide voice communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems may include Code Division Multiple Access CDMA systems Global System for Mobile Communications GSM systems North American Digital Cellular NADC systems Time Division Multiple Access TDMA systems Extended TDMA E TDMA systems Narrowband Advanced Mobile Phone Service NAMPS systems third generation 3G systems such as Wide band CDMA WCDMA CDMA 2000 Universal Mobile Telephone System UMTS systems and so forth.

In addition to voice communications functionality the mobile computing device may be arranged to provide data communications functionality in accordance with different types of cellular radiotelephone systems. Examples of cellular radiotelephone systems offering data communications services may include GSM with General Packet Radio Service GPRS systems GSM GPRS CDMA 1xRTT systems Enhanced Data Rates for Global Evolution EDGE systems Evolution Data Only or Evolution Data Optimized EV DO systems Evolution For Data and Voice EV DV systems High Speed Downlink Packet Access HSDPA systems High Speed Uplink Packet Access HSUPA and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to provide voice and or data communications functionality in accordance with different types of wireless network systems. Examples of wireless network systems may include a wireless local area network WLAN system wireless metropolitan area network WMAN system wireless wide area network WWAN system and so forth. Examples of suitable wireless network systems offering data communication services may include the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers IEEE 802.xx series of protocols such as the IEEE 802.11a b g n series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiFi the IEEE 802.16 series of standard protocols and variants also referred to as WiMAX the IEEE 802.20 series of standard protocols and variants and so forth.

The mobile computing device may be arranged to perform data communications in accordance with different types of shorter range wireless systems such as a wireless personal area network PAN system. One example of a suitable wireless PAN system offering data communication services may include a Bluetooth system operating in accordance with the Bluetooth Special Interest Group SIG series of protocols including Bluetooth Specification versions v1.0 v1.1 v1.2 v2.0 v2.0 with Enhanced Data Rate EDR as well as one or more Bluetooth Profiles and so forth. Other examples may include systems using infrared techniques or near field communication techniques and protocols such as electro magnetic induction EMI techniques. An example of EMI techniques may include passive or active radio frequency identification RFID protocols and devices.

As shown in the embodiment of the mobile computing device may comprise a dual processor architecture including a host processor and a radio processor . In various implementations the host processor and the radio processor may be arranged to communicate with each other using interfaces such as one or more universal serial bus USB interfaces micro USB interfaces universal asynchronous receiver transmitter UART interfaces general purpose input output GPIO interfaces control status lines control data lines audio lines and so forth.

The host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and applications programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device . The radio processor may be responsible for performing various voice and data communications operations for the mobile computing device such as transmitting and receiving voice and data information over one or more wireless communications channels. Although some embodiments may be described as comprising a dual processor architecture for purposes of illustration the mobile computing device may comprise any suitable processor architecture and or any suitable number of processors consistent with the described embodiments.

The host processor may be implemented as a host central processing unit CPU using any suitable processor or logic device such as a general purpose processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the host processor implemented as a CPU or general purpose processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the host processor may comprise or be implemented as a chip multiprocessor CMP dedicated processor embedded processor media processor input output I O processor co processor microprocessor controller microcontroller application specific integrated circuit ASIC field programmable gate array FPGA programmable logic device PLD or other processing device in accordance with the described embodiments.

As shown the host processor may be coupled through a memory bus to a memory . The memory bus may comprise any suitable interface and or bus architecture for allowing the host processor to access the memory . Although the memory may be shown as being separate from the host processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the host processor . Alternatively some portion or the entire memory may be disposed on an integrated circuit or other medium e.g. hard disk drive external to the integrated circuit of host processor . In various embodiments the mobile computing device may comprise an expansion slot to support a multimedia and or memory card for example.

The memory may be implemented using any machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. Examples of machine readable storage media may include without limitation random access memory RAM dynamic RAM DRAM Double Data Rate DRAM DDRAM synchronous DRAM SDRAM static RAM SRAM read only memory ROM programmable ROM PROM erasable programmable ROM EPROM electrically erasable programmable ROM EEPROM flash memory e.g. NOR or NAND flash memory content addressable memory CAM polymer memory e.g. ferroelectric polymer memory phase change memory ovonic memory ferroelectric memory silicon oxide nitride oxide silicon SONOS memory magnetic or optical cards or any other type of media suitable for storing information.

The mobile computing device may comprise an alphanumeric keypad coupled to the host processor . The keypad may comprise for example a QWERTY key layout and an integrated number dial pad. The mobile computing device also may comprise various keys buttons and switches such as for example input keys preset and programmable hot keys left and right action buttons a navigation button such as a multidirectional navigation button phone send and power end buttons preset and programmable shortcut buttons a volume rocker switch a ringer on off switch having a vibrate mode and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a display coupled to the host processor . The display may comprise any suitable visual interface for displaying content to a user of the mobile computing device . In one embodiment for example the display may be implemented by a liquid crystal display LCD such as a touch sensitive color e.g. 16 bit color thin film transistor TFT LCD screen. In some embodiments the touch sensitive LCD may be used with a stylus and or a handwriting recognizer program.

The mobile computing device may comprise an input output I O interface coupled to the host processor . The I O interface may comprise one or more I O devices such as a serial connection port an infrared port integrated Bluetooth wireless capability and or integrated 802.11x WiFi wireless capability to enable wired e.g. USB cable and or wireless connection to a local computer system such as a local personal computer PC . In various implementations mobile computing device may be arranged to transfer and or synchronize information with the local computer system.

The host processor may be coupled to various audio video A V devices that support A V capability of the mobile computing device . Examples of A V devices may include for example a microphone one or more speakers an audio port to connect an audio headset an audio coder decoder codec an audio player a digital camera a video camera a video codec a video player and so forth.

The host processor may be coupled to a power supply arranged to supply and manage power to the elements of the mobile computing device . In various embodiments the power supply may be implemented by a rechargeable battery such as a removable and rechargeable lithium ion battery to provide direct current DC power and or an alternating current AC adapter to draw power from a standard AC main power supply. In various embodiments power supply may be rechargeable via a USB connection a wall outlet solar power etc.

As mentioned above the radio processor may perform voice and or data communication operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may be arranged to communicate voice information and or data information over one or more assigned frequency bands of a wireless communication channel. In various embodiments the radio processor may be implemented as a communications processor using any suitable processor or logic device such as a modem processor or baseband processor. Although some embodiments may be described with the radio processor implemented as a modem processor or baseband processor by way of example it may be appreciated that the embodiments are not limited in this context. For example the radio processor may comprise or be implemented as a digital signal processor DSP media access control MAC processor or any other type of communications processor in accordance with the described embodiments.

In various embodiments the radio processor may perform analog and or digital baseband operations for the mobile computing device . For example the radio processor may perform digital to analog conversion DAC analog to digital conversion ADC modulation demodulation encoding decoding encryption decryption and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a memory coupled to the radio processor . The memory may be implemented using one or more types of machine readable or computer readable media capable of storing data such as volatile memory or non volatile memory removable or non removable memory erasable or non erasable memory writeable or re writeable memory and so forth. The memory may comprise for example flash memory and secure digital SD RAM. Although the memory may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire memory may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

The mobile computing device may comprise a transceiver module coupled to the radio processor . The transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers arranged to communicate using different types of protocols communication ranges operating power requirements RF sub bands information types e.g. voice or data use scenarios applications and so forth. The transceiver module generally may be implemented using one or more chips as desired for a given implementation. Although the transceiver module may be shown as being separate from and external to the radio processor for purposes of illustration in various embodiments some portion or the entire transceiver module may be included on the same integrated circuit as the radio processor .

In various embodiments the transceiver module may comprise one or more transceivers or components arranged to support voice and or data communications for the wireless network systems or protocols as previously described. For example the mobile computing device may comprise one or more radio frequency RF transceivers supporting voice communication e.g. CDMA GSM UMTS WWAN data communication e.g. EVDO EVDV CDMA 1xRTT GSM GPRS EDGE HSDPA WLAN data communication e.g. WiFi WiMAX and or WPAN data communication e.g. Infrared protocols Bluetooth IR EMI in accordance with the described embodiments. The transceiver module may further comprise a GPS transceiver supporting position determination in accordance with the described embodiments.

The mobile computing device may comprise an antenna system coupled to the radio processor through the transceiver module . The antenna system may transmit and or receive electrical signals and may comprise or be implemented as one or more internal antennas and or external antennas tuned for operating at one or more frequency bands. As shown the antenna system may comprise one or more antennas connected to one or more RF transceivers supporting voice and or data communications in accordance with the described embodiments. The antenna system may further comprise a GPS antenna connected to the GPS transceiver supporting position determination in accordance with the described embodiments.

The radio processor may comprise or implement a position module such as a GPS engine supporting satellite based position determination capabilities for the mobile computing device . In some embodiments the position module may be implemented as software operating in conjunction with the GPS transceiver for allowing the mobile computing device to receive and process GPS satellites signals and determine a position fix. The information generated and or obtained by the position module generally may comprise any type of information associated with the location of the mobile computing device such as latitude longitude altitude heading information vector information including horizontal and vertical velocity sector based position location position uncertainty device orientation and so forth.

The mobile computing device may comprise a subscriber identity module SIM coupled to the radio processor . The SIM may comprise for example a removable or non removable smart card arranged to encrypt voice and data transmissions and to store user specific data for allowing a voice or data communications network to identify and authenticate the user. The SIM also may store data such as personal settings specific to the user.

The mobile computing device may comprise a motion sensor in communication with radio processor over bus . Motion sensor may comprise for example one or more accelerometers such as but not limited to a micro electrical mechanical systems MEMS based accelerometer a two axis accelerometer or a three axis accelerometer. In an embodiment motion sensor may detect motion without the use of cellular or radio signals which may be unavailable. Motion sensor may detect when the mobile computing device is in motion such as when the device operator is walking or riding in a vehicle. Motion sensor may inform radio processor when it detects motion. In an embodiment motion sensor may inform host processor when it detects motion via bus .

As mentioned above the host processor may be arranged to provide processing or computing resources to the mobile computing device . For example the host processor may be responsible for executing various software programs such as system programs and application programs to provide computing and processing operations for the mobile computing device .

System programs not shown generally may assist in the running of the mobile computing device and may be directly responsible for controlling integrating and managing the individual hardware components of the computer system. Examples of system programs may include without limitation an operating system OS device drivers programming tools utility programs software libraries application programming interfaces APIs and so forth. The mobile computing device may use any suitable OS in accordance with the described embodiments such as a Palm OS Palm OS Cobalt Palm webOS Microsoft Windows OS Microsoft Windows CE Microsoft Pocket PC Microsoft Mobile Symbian OS Embedix OS Linux Binary Run time Environment for Wireless BREW OS JavaOS a Wireless Application Protocol WAP OS and so forth.

Application programs generally may allow a user to accomplish one or more specific tasks. Examples of application programs may include without limitation one or more messaging applications e.g. telephone voicemail facsimile e mail IM SMS MMS video conferencing a web browser application personal information management PIM applications e.g. contacts calendar scheduling tasks word processing applications spreadsheet applications database applications media applications e.g. video player audio player multimedia player digital camera video camera media management gaming applications and so forth. In various implementations the application programs may provide one or more graphical user interfaces GUIs to communicate information between the mobile computing device and a user. In some embodiments application programs may comprise upper layer programs running on top of the OS of the host processor that operate in conjunction with the functions and protocols of lower layers including for example a transport layer such as a Transmission Control Protocol TCP layer a network layer such as an Internet Protocol IP layer and a link layer such as a Point to Point PPP layer used to translate and format data for communication.

As shown in the mobile computing device may comprise or implement several applications arranged to provide a variety of functionality to device . The applications may comprise for example a telephone application such as a cellular telephone application a Voice over Internet Protocol VoIP application a Push to Talk PTT application and so forth. The applications may further comprise a calendar application a map application an Internet browser application an instant messaging IM application an e mail application etc.

Map application may include map applications that function within Internet browser application or stand alone applications. In an embodiment map application may provide information in addition to location and direction information. Map application may provide for example business look up information information about what businesses business types or residences are located near a specified location etc. It is to be understood that the embodiments are not limited in this regard and that the applications may include any other type of application that is consistent with the described embodiments.

Mobile computing device may comprise a power management module to monitor various aspects of device operation and discontinue battery using operations in certain specified scenarios. Power management module may comprise for example hardware and or software such as logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. host processor . The logic may be stored internally or externally to the logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media. Power management module may access application data such as from the device user s calendar app and or map application . Power management module may access position data e.g. from position module . Power management module is discussed in further detail below.

Mobile computing device may comprise a date time module that stores and updates the current calendar date and time. Date time module may supply the date and time to power management module which may use the date and or time to control battery usage by shutting down or enabling device applications.

The mobile computing device may store usage pattern data user preference data and or application support data . Power management module may access usage pattern data user preference data and or application support data when determining whether to initiate a battery saving operation.

Usage pattern data may include data regarding patterns of use of the mobile device . Patterns of use may include but are not limited to frequency of use of applications time of day of use charging habits charging locations usage habits location information calendar information call log history Bluetooth information and other data that may be collected live based on user patterns etc. In an embodiment usage pattern data may include usage pattern data aggregated from other similar users.

User preference data may include data about the user s preferences on when and how to save battery power. The user may indicate for example that he wishes to preserve battery power by turning off transceiver when he is in a low signal area in a meeting or in a specific location. User preference data may be stored as rules that power management module may apply when determining when to suspend wireless communications to conserve battery power.

Application support data may include data used by applications . Usage pattern data user preference data and or application support data may be stored in the memory of the mobile computing device for example. Application support data may include for example calendar events signal coverage maps call logs call history etc.

Location awareness module may monitor the location of device . For example location awareness module may poll or receive information from position module and or motion sensor regarding geographical and or latitudinal coordinates. In addition location awareness module may also poll or receive information from for example map app which may indicate a type of location of device . A location type may include for example a restaurant a theater a doctor s office a church a park etc.

Power management module may use such location type information from location awareness module to turn off signal searching operations in radio processor when device is in a location in which the user has indicated no wireless communication should occur. For example when device is in a house of worship a theater or a doctor s office the user may indicate that no telephone calls or text messages should be received and location awareness module may cause the radio processor to stop searching for and maintaining a signal.

Power management module may use location information from location awareness module to enable or disable other operations. For example while device is located within a range of the user s primary computer as determined for example via a Bluetooth connection or by a GPS location location awareness module may disable the email application from checking for email. This rule may apply when the user performs most email functions at the primary computer and only uses the mobile device to check for email when away from the primary computer.

Date time awareness module may monitor the date and time for example from date time module and enable power management decisions based either directly on date or time or date or time information in conjunction with other information. For example date time awareness module may compare the current date or time with events scheduled in calendar app . For example if the date and time correspond to a scheduled meeting in calendar app date time awareness module may cause power management module to disable all wireless communication on device for the duration of the meeting or until a specified time period before or after the meeting ends. Date time awareness module may also track the time of day and or duration of use of certain battery consuming applications. This tracked information may be provided to use awareness module as will be discussed below.

Location awareness module and date time awareness module may be aware of when device is in an airplane. If calendar app indicates a scheduled flight and or location awareness module notes an altitude indicating probable flight then device may be switched over to airplane mode or otherwise have wireless communications turned off.

Use awareness module may track many aspects of how a user makes use of device . Example of uses tracked may include but are not limited to when email app is used when and or how device is charged whether the user is using the same or equivalent application on another device when the user uses Wi Fi or Bluetooth when phone calls are typically made or received etc.

For example if the user only checks email in the morning or only a few times a day power management module may cause email app to fetch email only near those times or only every few hours according to the user s email use pattern. In another example if the user typically reads email during meetings power management module may cause device to wait until a short period before the start of a meeting to check for and download email to device .

In another example use awareness module may track when and for how long device is plugged in for battery charging. The method of charging may also be tracked e.g. is the device plugged in via a USB cable or via an electrical outlet If device is only plugged in sporadically or for only short periods of time it may be advantageous to maximize the charging for example by turning device off or by placing it in a low power consumption mode.

In another example use awareness module may detect when the device user is using the same or equivalent applications on device and another device. For example if the user is logged into the same account of an instant messaging application from more than one device power management module may shut down IM app on device . Other applications may include for example email applications chat room applications social networking applications etc.

In another example use awareness module may monitor when and where device uses Wi Fi and or Bluetooth or other wireless communication and may cause power management module to disable the communication otherwise.

Signal awareness module may monitor and track wireless signal strength and change device functionality based on signal strength in order to conserve battery power. For example in low signal areas signal awareness module may in consideration of additional factors cause power management module to disable temporarily the wireless transceiver and or radio processor until signal strength improves. The additional factors may include for example an absence of scheduled meetings while the location of the mobile device is unchanged during long known periods of inactivity such as at night and or while the battery is below a certain charge threshold.

In an embodiment signal strength awareness module may use data from position module and or map app to build a signal strength map for the user. Signal awareness module may then be able to warn the user when device is nearing a low signal area. In an embodiment use awareness module may use such a signal strength map to educate the user as to an optimal location to leave device for an extended period of time without charging i.e. an area in a home or business where signal strength is high. In an embodiment signal strength maps from multiple device users may be provided to the device manufacturer and or service provider to provide an aggregated map of signal strength in a geographic area.

In an embodiment signal strength awareness module and location awareness module may note locations where a short range signal is weakening such as when device and a paired Bluetooth device are close to being out of range and turn off the Bluetooth signal. When device later approaches that location the Bluetooth signal could then be turned on again automatically.

User interface module may provide an interface to communicate information to the user of device about battery conservation and to request information from the user regarding preferences for battery conservation practices. User interface module may provide a learning period where the user s interactions with device are monitored and analyzed. User interface module may educate or suggest different practices to the user such as using a power outlet instead of a USB cable to charge device . User interface module may allow the user to select scenarios when battery power should be conserved.

The selections may further include an in a specific location type selection which may turn off or suspend wireless communication when the location of device is a specific location type. Selection may include further selections for specific location types such as medical facility selection restaurant selection or theater selection . Other selection may allow the user to add location types not already listed. In an embodiment entry box may allow the user to type in a location type. Alternatively entry box may be a drop down menu that lists location types consistent with location types used for example by map app . The embodiments are not limited to these examples.

Once the user has selected the battery saving measures that he wishes to use the selections may be saved by selecting the apply button . The selection may then be saved for example in user preference data .

In various implementations the new calendar item UI may be presented to the user when a new calendar event is created by the user or when an event invitation is received via calendar app . It can be appreciated however that the embodiments are not limited in this context.

As shown the new calendar item UI may comprise a title bar for displaying that the item is a new calendar item. In various embodiments the messaging UI may be arranged to display a subject for the event a location for the event a start time and end time as well as a start date and an end date .

The new calendar item UI may comprise a battery savings selection box which may allow the user to choose whether to implement battery saving measures during the event. The battery saving measures may include those previously described in and or additional battery saving measures.

In various embodiments the logic flow may comprise monitoring and analyzing patterns of user operation on device block . This may be performed for example by use awareness module . Block may be performed continuously until disabled by the user or for a specific learning period. User operations may include but are not limited to a battery charging method e.g. USB or wall outlet a battery charging duration e.g. less than an hour or several hours a frequency of use of an application operating on device e.g. how many times the user checks email on device or talks on the phone a time of day of use of an application operating on device e.g. when does the user check email or use Wi Fi a duration of use of an application operating on device e.g. for how long at a time does the user use the browser or a location of use of an application operating on device e.g. the user uses Wi Fi only at the office and the coffee shop or the user only checks email when not at work.

Analyzing the patterns of user operation may include any statistical operations that may generate a useable rule to be applied to future behavior. For example the charging duration may be aggregated and averaged to determine that the user on average charges device for 20 minutes at a time twice a day. Results of the analysis may be stored as user pattern data .

The logic flow may comprise monitoring the location of device block . Block may be performed for example by location awareness module . Location awareness module may receive position and or movement information from for example position module and motion sensor .

The logic flow may comprise measuring wireless signal strength for one or more wireless signals block . Block may be performed by signal awareness module . Signal awareness module may monitor any or all of the wireless signals that device is capable of sending and receiving such as but not limited to cellular radiotelephone signals radio frequency signals Wi Fi signals WiMAX signals infrared signals Bluetooth signals etc. Block may further include storing signal strength information by location to create a signal strength map.

The logic flow may comprise monitoring the date and or time block . Block may be performed by date time awareness module .

The logic flow may suspend one or more wireless communications according to monitored or measured conditions from any of blocks or block . While blocks and are shown serially in in various embodiments blocks and may be performed in parallel. Blocks and may be performed at different time intervals from each other. Information from multiple blocks may also be used together in block to determine when wireless communications should be suspended.

For example if analysis from block indicates that the user is statistically unlikely to check email between 8 p.m. and 7 a.m. and block indicates that the time is in that interval then in block the wireless communication involved in checking and downloading email may be suspended until shortly before 7 a.m.

In another example if block indicates that device is in a location type that the user has selected for battery conservation measures then all wireless communications may be suspended.

In another example if block measures a low or zero signal strength then the wireless communication related to that signal may be suspended in block . If block indicates that device is moving toward a mapped low signal strength area then block may both alert the device user and suspend signal searching until device is in a better signal strength area.

In another example if a date and time from block corresponds to a calendar event from calendar app then wireless communication may be suspended for the duration of the event in block . The embodiments are not limited to these examples.

Numerous specific details have been set forth to provide a thorough understanding of the embodiments. It will be understood however that the embodiments may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances well known operations components and circuits have not been described in detail so as not to obscure the embodiments. It can be appreciated that the specific structural and functional details are representative and do not necessarily limit the scope of the embodiments.

Various embodiments may comprise one or more elements. An element may comprise any structure arranged to perform certain operations. Each element may be implemented as hardware software or any combination thereof as desired for a given set of design and or performance constraints. Although an embodiment may be described with a limited number of elements in a certain topology by way of example the embodiment may include more or less elements in alternate topologies as desired for a given implementation.

Any reference to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment. The appearances of the phrase in one embodiment in the specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment.

Although some embodiments may be illustrated and described as comprising exemplary functional components or modules performing various operations it can be appreciated that such components or modules may be implemented by one or more hardware components software components and or combination thereof. The functional components and or modules may be implemented for example by logic e.g. instructions data and or code to be executed by a logic device e.g. processor . Such logic may be stored internally or externally to a logic device on one or more types of computer readable storage media.

It also is to be appreciated that the described embodiments illustrate exemplary implementations and that the functional components and or modules may be implemented in various other ways which are consistent with the described embodiments. Furthermore the operations performed by such components or modules may be combined and or separated for a given implementation and may be performed by a greater number or fewer number of components or modules.

Unless specifically stated otherwise it may be appreciated that terms such as processing computing calculating determining or the like refer to the action and or processes of a computer or computing system or similar electronic computing device that manipulates and or transforms data represented as physical quantities e.g. electronic within registers and or memories into other data similarly represented as physical quantities within the memories registers or other such information storage transmission or display devices.

Some embodiments may be described using the expression coupled and connected along with their derivatives. These terms are not intended as synonyms for each other. For example some embodiments may be described using the terms connected and or coupled to indicate that two or more elements are in direct physical or electrical contact with each other. The term coupled however may also mean that two or more elements are not in direct contact with each other but yet still co operate or interact with each other. With respect to software elements for example the term coupled may refer to interfaces message interfaces API exchanging messages and so forth.

Some of the figures may include a flow diagram. Although such figures may include a particular logic flow it can be appreciated that the logic flow merely provides an exemplary implementation of the general functionality. Further the logic flow does not necessarily have to be executed in the order presented unless otherwise indicated. In addition the logic flow may be implemented by a hardware element a software element executed by a processor or any combination thereof.

While certain features of the embodiments have been illustrated as described above many modifications substitutions changes and equivalents will now occur to those skilled in the art. It is therefore to be understood that the appended claims are intended to cover all such modifications and changes as fall within the true spirit of the embodiments.

