---

title: Process for selectively making olefins from energy dense alcohols
abstract: A process to perform selective catalytic oxidation of four-carbon alcohols to produce four-carbon olefins with yields greater than 90%. The process includes providing a supply of oxygen gas and a butanol fuel, atomizing and evaporating the fuel to produce a vapor, mixing the vapor with the oxygen to form a fuel mixture, reacting the fuel mixture in the presence of a heated solid Rh/AlOor AlOcatalysts.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08314279&OS=08314279&RS=08314279
owner: The United States of America as reprensted by the Secretary of the Army
number: 08314279
owner_city: Washington
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100830
---
The presently disclosed invention was made with U.S. Government support by the Army Research Laboratory. Thus the United States Government has certain rights in the disclosed subject matter. The embodiments described herein may be manufactured used sold imported and or licensed by or for the United States Government without the payment of royalties.

The embodiments described herein relate to the selective catalytic combustion of butanol to make olefins in good yield.

Butanols are a desirable hydrocarbon source for energy and chemical industries mainly because they are easily available through fermentation of non food biomass and wastewater. Dehydration of butanol isomers including 1 butanol 2 butanol and isobutanol produce butenes including 1 butene cis 2 butene trans 2 butene and isobutene which are highly valuable starting materials for chemical industries to make synthetic fuels lubricants and other high value chemicals. For examples 1 butene is used in the creation of high density polyethylene as well as linear low density polyethylene. 2 butene is an extremely valuable starting material for lubricants as well as agricultural chemicals. In olefin metathesis 2 butene reacts with ethylene to form propylene. Isobutene is the starting material for butyl rubber methyl tert butyl ether MTBE and isooctane. In addition synthetic petroleum kerosene SPK can be synthesized by oligomerization of 4 carbon olefins. Unlike dehydration of butanol in the prior art this invention is an oxidative process i.e. combustion . The combustion of 1 butanol is extremely exothermic and occurs via Equation 1 shown below. This heat production enables the reaction to perform auto thermally. As a result the catalytic reaction is activated to reach an authermal reaction temperature of 330 C. to 600 C. when the reactant stream butanol vapor and oxygen is preheated at approximately 200 C. In contrast traditional dehydration process requires external heating to maintain catalyst temperature at about 300 C. to 500 C. CHCHCHCHOH 6O 4CO 5HO H 2713 kJ mol 1 

In a combustion process the equivalence ratio of a system defined herein as the ratio of the fuel to air oxidizer ratio to the stoichiometric fuel to air oxidizer ratio plays an important role in fuel conversion. Mathematically the equivalence ratio is represented as 

where m represents the mass n represents number of moles and suffix st stands for stoichiometric conditions.

The value can be controlled by adjusting the amounts of fuel and or oxygen that are reacted. Having a value of unity 1 signifies a stoichiometric feed of fuel and air as shown in the above equations. With reactions having high values i.e. values ranging from 0.75 to 3 the reaction is considered fuel rich and incomplete combustion occurs because not enough oxygen exists to combust the fuel. However reactions having low values i.e. values ranging from 0 to 0.75 indicate reactions having a fuel lean environment with plenty of oxygen to oxidize the fuel into its combustion products carbon dioxide and water.

The production of olefins from hydrocarbons is well known in the prior art. In particular Patent Application Publication US2002 0087042 to Schmidt et al. teaches a process whereby ethane auto thermally decomposes to form ethene. See also U.S. Pat. No. 6 566 573. However this process only converts alkanes to mainly two and three carbon olefins which are not as desirable as four carbon olefins to oligomerize into gasolines jet fuels diesel fuels or lubricants.

Patent Application Publications US 2008 0131948 and US 2008 0234523 both to Manzer et al. teach processes for converting dry and aqueous 2 butanol directly to isooctenes. However these processes were carried out as batch processes which are not favorable as a continuous flow reactor. Additionally the butanol conversions were as high as 75 but their selectivity into the desired iso octenes was generally very low which would create only a small product yield yield conversion selectivity .

Patent Application Publications US 2008 0132730 and US 2008 0132732 both to Manzer et al. teach a process for producing butenes from dry and aqueous 2 butanol. In particular US 2008 0132732 discusses achieving 100 conversion and 100 selectivity of a 70 wt mixture of butanol. However the reactions were carried out in a pressurized batch reactor 2 mL vials making continual production impossible. Additionally in US 2008 0132730 the selectivity and conversion of dry butanol was not as high achieving only 75 conversion and 100 selectivity. Both of these approaches used sulfuric acid liquid as the catalyst which must then be separated from the liquid reactants consequently adding another step. This implies frequent replacement of the catalyst which would be expensive. These processes were also carried out in a pressurized batch reactor.

In view of the foregoing an embodiment herein provides a process for selectively converting four carbon liquid alcohols to olefins comprising providing a supply of oxygen gas providing the alcohols atomizing the alcohols evaporating the alcohols to produce a fuel vapor mixing the vapor with oxygen to form a fuel mixture and reacting the fuel mixture in the presence of a solid heterogeneous catalysts of Rh AlOand or AlO.

Additionally the alcohols are selected from any one of pure 1 butanols pure 2 butanols and pure isobutanols.

The olefins produced comprise Catoms with a selectivity of greater than 90 and a total conversion greater than 95 . Further the olefins are selected from 1 butenes cis 2 butenes trans 2 butenes and isobutenes.

Additionally the alcohols are atomized by an electrostatic injection device through electrospray in any one of cone jet mode multi jet mode and charge injection mode. Further the alcohol droplets are evaporated by a heat tape on the outside of the reactor.

The alcohols have a flow rate of less than 10 milliliters per hour during electrospray and a pressure of less than 10 psig.

The process further includes adjusting operating conditions to selectively produce varying four carbon olefins. Specifically the operating conditions include a contact time of said fuel mixture with a catalyst a temperature of the catalyst and an equivalence ratio. Preferably the contact time is in a range from about 145 ms to less than 550 ms the temperature is in a range from about 330 C. to less than 600 C. and the equivalence ratio is in a range from about 0.15 to less than 18.

According to another embodiment herein provides a process to produce a butene product with a yield of 93 from a four carbon butanol containing feed stream the process comprising contacting the feed stream with a catalyst consisting essentially of alumina monolith foam with Rh gamma alumina to produce the butene product. The reaction occurs in a continuous flow reactor operated at a temperature between about 330 C. to less than 600 C. Further an equivalence ratio of the feed stream is in a range from about 0.15 to less than 18 and a contact time of the catalyst with the feed stream is in a range from about 145 ms to less than 550 ms.

The embodiments herein and the various features and advantageous details thereof are explained more fully with reference to the non limiting embodiments that are illustrated in the accompanying drawings and detailed in the following description. Descriptions of well known components and processing techniques are omitted so as to not unnecessarily obscure the embodiments herein. The examples used herein are intended merely to facilitate an understanding of ways in which the embodiments herein may be practiced and to further enable those of ordinary skill in the art to practice the embodiments herein. Accordingly the examples should not be construed as limiting the scope of the embodiments herein.

The embodiments described herein provide methods that include selective catalytic combustion and electrospray technologies to convert liquid butanol fuel in a continuous flow reactor to a variety of olefin products.

Referring now to the drawings and more particularly to where similar reference characters denote corresponding features consistently throughout the figures there are shown preferred embodiments.

It is to be appreciated however that the cylindrical shape of the reactor may have alternative shapes and sizes. Following from the direction of gas intake which for purposes of the embodiment described herein is the top of the reactor grounded mesh is disposed below a droplet source not shown extending from and coupled to an electrostatic fuel injection device . Further grounded mesh is located at an approximate distance of 1 cm below the droplet source in order to have a large enough distance for the droplet to evaporate yet small enough distance to sustain the electrospray at a low voltage e.g. 3500 V for single nozzle electrospray without an extractor electrode . Thus the larger the distance between the droplet source and a grounded mesh the more voltage or power that is needed. Pure oxygen gas or air is introduced through gas intake and the effluent gas is released and sent to a gas chromatograph GC not shown through the bottom of the reactor . Additionally liquid fuel is introduced into the stainless steel tube of the reactor via a liquid pump not shown . It is to be appreciated that the liquid fuel can include various types of energy dense fuels including but not limited to butanols. Once introduced the fuel is electrostatically atomized by creating a voltage difference between the droplet source and a grounded mesh e.g. 3500 V for single nozzle electrospray without an extractor electrode . Preferably the fuel is electrosprayed using electrospraying techniques well known in the art such as for example cone jet mode in order to ultimately assist with obtaining an optimum droplet size e.g. 6 microns and flow rate of less than 4 milliliters per hour per nozzle. Further the electrospray injection device requires minimal power of approximately 0.35 mW per nozzle. It is to be appreciated that other well known electrospraying techniques may be employed such as for example multi jet mode or charge injection however the present invention is not limited thereto.

The foam mixing system is a layer of alumina located below the grounded mesh to aid in the mixing of the fuel vapor and any incoming oxygen gas. Additionally the grounded mesh is perpendicular to the direction of the droplet trajectory in order to create an electric field between it and the electrostatic field injection device . Sufficient heat e.g. less than 10 degrees above the boiling point of the fuel was supplied via a heating tape on the outside of the reactor to apply heat to the grounded mesh to ensure complete evaporation or vaporization of the liquid fuel. The same heating tape also preheats the reactant stream vaporized fuel and oxygen to approximately 200 C. During start up conditions the pre heating is achieved by the heating tape or an active heating element while during operation heat may be provided passively by heat reclamation processes. It is to be noted that any heating tape well known in the art may be utilized.

The catalyst material is a solid material that is placed between two inert porous alumina foams that act as heat shields and also serve as an additional mixing layer to ensure uniform fuel vapor concentration over the entire catalyst surface. A foam catalyst containing either an AlOfoam or Rh AlOfoam or both can be used as the catalyst which will be described in further detail below. For purposes of description the Rh AlOfoam 5 mm thick contained 0.061 g of Rhodimum Rh and was prepared in a manner detailed in the text Rhodimum Supported on Thermally Enhanced Zeolite as Catalysts for Fuel Reformation of Jet Fuels Vol. 136 Catalysis Today p. 258 265 2008 by Ivan C. Lee which is incorporated herein by reference. The alumina monolith foam 80 pores per inch 17 mm diameter 5 mm thick was coated with alumina to roughen the foam surface and to increase the surface area. Then the foam was calcined in a box furnace at 973 K for 15 hours. An aqueous Rh NO solution was further added to the foam and the resultant foam was calcined in the box furnace at approximately 973 K for a subsequent 15 hours. The contact time between the catalyst fuel and oxygen as well as the flow rate is dependent upon the thickness of the catalyst. That is the thicker the catalyst material or smaller the flowrate the greater the increase in contact time. Thus as expressed in a formula contact time thickness of the catalyst material flow rate.

Next a general explanation of the converted products will be given in further detail according to experiments conducted with reference to the embodiments of the invention. This explanation is intended to be illustrative of the invention but is not meant to be construed as limiting the reasonable scope of the invention.

An air tight seal was placed around the reactor and the GC not shown . The amounts of hydrogen oxygen nitrogen carbon monoxide carbon dioxide methane acetylene ethane ethylene propane propylene butane 1 butene isobutene cis 2 butene and trans 2 butene were monitored by an Agilent 4 channel micro GC not shown . Before each new iteration of fuel intake nitrogen was first passed through the reactor in order to clear out any lingering gases to ensure that no leaks existed and to ensure that no residual oxygen was present. After the appropriate nitrogen and oxygen flow rates were introduced according to the contact time and equivalence ratio the grounded mesh and catalyst temperatures were allowed to equilibrate. Typical steady state temperature of the ground mesh is about 2 10 C. above the boiling point of the specific butanol. When the fuel flow is introduced atomized and vaporized chemical reaction occurs on the catalyst . As a result the catalyst temperature rises. The catalyst temperatures were again allowed to reach a steady state operating autothermal temperature e.g. ranging from 330 C. to 600 C. and the GC recorded the gas composition during this time. The overall contact time of the catalyst with the fuel nitrogen and oxygen ranged between 145 ms to 550 ms. The equivalence ratio was varied utilizing both the Rh AlOand AlOfoam catalysts ranging from 0.18 18 thereby providing different products with three distinct regimes. For example as shown in in 1 butanol combustion utilizing the Rh AlOfoam catalyst for the equivalence ratio 95 and a yield 95 . Additionally under the same conditions hydrogen and carbon monoxide yields were minimal. It is to be noted that selectivity is defined herein as how many atoms are converted to some other product and yield is expressed as conversion selectivity which will be discussed in further detail below.

The fuel conversion was determined by analyzing exhaust gas composition with the flame ionization detector of a second GC. A HP INNOWAX column was employed to quantify polar molecules including 1 butanol 2 butanol isobutanol methanol acetone and acetaldehyde wherein conversion is defined by 

The carbon selectivity was defined as the number of carbon atoms in a product species divided by the total number of carbon atoms in all the product species. Hydrogen selectivity was defined in an analogous way and the definition of carbon selectivity is shown in Equation 4 below. In particular 

Referring to the graphical representations of the carbon selectivity for 2 butanol combustion products with Rh AlOand AlOcatalysts are shown. Like combustion of 1 butanol there are 3 distinct regimes in presence of Rh . Complete combustion occurs for equivalence ratios less than 1 and almost 100 of the carbons are found in carbon dioxide. At 1 the selectivity of carbon monoxide rises as that of carbon dioxide decreases. Finally for 10 olefin production becomes prominent as nearly 90 of the carbons leave the reactor as an olefin. The major olefin products were 1 butene cis 2 butene and trans 2 butene. At 6.99 the carbon selectivity of 1 butene cis 2 butene and trans 2 butene were 25.1 35.8 and 26.2 respectively. At 17.5 the carbon selectivity of 1 butene cis 2 butene and trans 2 butene were 27.4 38.8 and 25.9 respectively. At these equivalence ratios the 2 butene including cis and trans are produced with over 50 selectivity. In absence of Rh there is only olefin production regime . The major olefin products were 1 butene cis 2 butene and trans 2 butene. At 6.33 the carbon selectivity of 1 butene cis 2 butene and trans 2 butene were 35.2 35.8 and 25.3 respectively. Therefore both Rh AlOan AlOproduce 2 butenes including cis and trans as the preferred olefins. In particular Rh AlOis the preferred catalyst for cis 2 butene production from 2 butanol.

The 3 regime operation of Rh AlOcatalyst for combustion of butanol isomers 1 butanol 2 butanol and isobutanol is beneficial to provide hot combustion gas to regenerate the reactor with AlOcatalyst. One possible schematic process diagram is shown in where Rh AlOand AlOcatalysts may both be used. It is very common for a reactor to become less efficient as it ages. Catalyst fouling with carbon deposit is one of the main causes for such aging. and demonstrate that complete combustion of butanol occurs when 

Lastly the multi regime capability of Rh AlOprovides an additional advantage. During catalyst regeneration the Rh acts as combustion catalyst to combust the carbon deposit on the catalyst by running 

As will be appreciated by one skilled in the art the embodiments in the foregoing description of the specific embodiments will so fully reveal the general nature of the embodiments herein that others can by applying current knowledge readily modify and or adapt for various applications such specific embodiments without departing from the generic concept and therefore such adaptations and modifications should and are intended to be comprehended within the meaning and range of equivalents of the disclosed embodiments. It is to be understood that the phraseology or terminology employed herein is for the purpose of description and not of limitation. Therefore while the embodiments herein have been described in terms of preferred embodiments those skilled in the art will recognize that the embodiments herein can be practiced with modification within the spirit and scope of the appended claims.

