---

title: Visual training devices, systems, and methods
abstract: Visual training aids including an eyewear article including a lens, an image generator mounted to the eyewear article in a position to display an image on the lens, a processor operatively connected to and in data communication with the image generator, a global positioning system operatively connected to and in data communication with the processor, a computer readable medium operatively connected to and in data communication with the processor. In some examples, the visual training aid includes a pair of eyeglasses. In some examples, the visual training aid includes a display monitor mounted to the eyewear. In some examples, the visual training aid includes a camera mounted to the eyewear.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08788197&OS=08788197&RS=08788197
owner: 
number: 08788197
owner_city: 
owner_country: 
publication_date: 20100826
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Application Ser. No. 61 329 648 filed on Apr. 30 2010 which is hereby incorporated by reference for all purposes.

The present disclosure relates generally to visual training devices systems and methods collectively visual training aids. In particular location aware visual training aids are described herein.

Training assistance devices known in the art are not entirely satisfactory. Specifically training aids in the art provide users with limited training data during a workout. Training data typically provided by conventional training devices includes current and average speed information pace information route information the time in which the user completes a particular route current and average heart rate information and current or average cadence information.

The advancement of video eyewear technologies now allows users to view computer generated graphics which substantially cover their entire field of vision on a display proximate their eyes. Such technologies generally achieve this functionality by attaching projectors to a set of eyewear that are capable of projecting graphical images on the lenses. These displays may receive a computer generated image from an external source and use a series of mirrors to project this image on the lens thereby placing computer generated graphical images in the user s natural line of vision. There are however other technologies by which images are displayed on the lenses of such video eyewear including more traditional display technologies such as LCD.

These video eyewear technologies are particularly suited to the display of augmented reality displays. Augmented reality displays comprise a computer generated graphical display laid over a portion of a user s or mobile device s natural field of vision. These augmented reality displays allow a user to view computer generated images including data related to objects in their natural field of vision. Augmented reality displays may include any display including both natural and computer generated elements.

Additionally the advancement of mobile computing devices have allowed for the development of substantially featured computing devices that afford great portability. These devices often include software development kits and application programming interfaces that allow for the development of software and drivers to allow the driver to interact with a wide array of external hardware. Additionally these devices often allow connection to the internet and local networks through various protocols. These devices may also include functionality that acquire data relating to location and movement including but not limited to global positioning system receivers accelerometers magnetometers and pedometers.

The present disclosure is directed to visual training aids including an eyewear article including a lens an image generator mounted to the eyewear article in a position to display an image on the lens a processor operatively connected to and in data communication with the image generator a global positioning system operatively connected to and in data communication with the processor a computer readable medium operatively connected to and in data communication with the processor. In some examples the visual training aid includes a pair of eyeglasses. In some examples the visual training aid includes a display monitor mounted to the eyewear. In some examples the visual training aid includes a camera mounted to the eyewear.

The disclosed visual training aids will become better understood through review of the following detailed description in conjunction with the figures. The detailed description and figures provide merely examples of the various inventions described herein. Those skilled in the art will understand that the disclosed examples may be varied modified and altered without departing from the scope of the inventions described herein. Many variations are contemplated for different applications and design considerations however for the sake of brevity each and every contemplated variation is not individually described in the following detailed description.

Throughout the following detailed description examples of various visual training aids are provided. Related features in the examples may be identical similar or dissimilar in different examples. For the sake of brevity related features will not be redundantly explained in each example. Instead the use of related feature names will cue the reader that the feature with a related feature name may be similar to the related feature in an example explained previously. Features specific to a given example will be described in that particular example. The reader should understand that a given feature need not be the same or similar to the specific portrayal of a related feature in any given figure or example.

Various examples of visual training aids may be implemented using electronic circuitry configured to perform one or more functions. For example with some embodiments of the invention the visual training aid may be implemented using one or more application specific integrated circuits ASICs . More typically however components of various examples of the invention will be implemented using a programmable computing device executing firmware or software instructions or by some combination of purpose specific electronic circuitry and firmware or software instructions executing on a programmable computing device.

Accordingly shows one illustrative example of a computer that can be used to implement various embodiments of the invention. Computer may be incorporated within a variety of consumer electronic devices such as personal media players cellular phones smart phones personal data assistants global positioning system devices and the like.

As seen in this figure computer has a computing unit . Computing unit typically includes a processing unit and a system memory . Processing unit may be any type of processing device for executing software instructions but will conventionally be a microprocessor device. System memory may include both a read only memory ROM and a random access memory RAM . As will be appreciated by those of ordinary skill in the art both read only memory ROM and random access memory RAM may store software instructions to be executed by processing unit .

Processing unit and system memory are connected either directly or indirectly through a bus or alternate communication structure to one or more peripheral devices. For example processing unit or system memory may be directly or indirectly connected to additional memory storage such as a hard disk drive a removable magnetic disk drive an optical disk drive and a flash memory card. Processing unit and system memory also may be directly or indirectly connected to one or more input devices and one or more output devices . Input devices may include for example a keyboard touch screen a remote control pad a pointing device such as a mouse touchpad stylus trackball or joystick a scanner a camera or a microphone. Output devices may include for example a monitor display an integrated display television printer stereo or speakers.

Still further computing unit will be directly or indirectly connected to one or more network interfaces for communicating with a network. This type of network interface also sometimes referred to as a network adapter or network interface card NIC translates data and control signals from computing unit into network messages according to one or more communication protocols such as the Transmission Control Protocol TCP the Internet Protocol IP and the User Datagram Protocol UDP . These protocols are well known in the art and thus will not be discussed here in more detail. An interface may employ any suitable connection agent for connecting to a network including for example a wireless transceiver a power line adapter a modem or an Ethernet connection.

It should be appreciated that in addition to the input output and storage peripheral devices specifically listed above the computing device may be connected to a variety of other peripheral devices including some that may perform input output and storage functions or some combination thereof. For example the computer may be connected to a digital music player such as an IPOD brand digital music player or IPHONE brand smartphone available from Apple Inc. of Cupertino Calif. As known in the art this type of digital music player can serve as both an output device for a computer e.g. outputting music from a sound file or pictures from an image file and a storage device. In addition this type of digital music play also can serve as an output device for outputting visual training information as will be discussed in more detail below.

In addition to a digital music player computer may be connected to or otherwise include one or more other peripheral devices such as a telephone. The telephone may be for example a wireless smart phone. As known in the art this type of telephone communicates through a wireless network using radio frequency transmissions. In addition to simple communication functionality a smart phone may also provide a user with one or more data management functions such as sending receiving and viewing electronic messages e.g. electronic mail messages SMS text messages etc. recording or playing back sound files recording or playing back image files e.g. still picture or moving video image files viewing and editing files with text e.g. Microsoft Word or Excel files or Adobe Acrobat files etc. Because of the data management capability of this type of telephone a user may connect the telephone with computer so that their data maintained may be synchronized.

Of course still other peripheral devices may be included with our otherwise connected to a computer of the type illustrated in as is well known in the art. In some cases a peripheral device may be permanently or semi permanently connected to computing unit . For example with many computers computing unit hard disk drive removable optical disk drive and a display are semi permanently encased in a single housing.

Still other peripheral devices may be removably connected to computer however. Computer may include for example one or more communication ports through which a peripheral device can be connected to computing unit either directly or indirectly through bus . These communication ports may thus include a parallel bus port or a serial bus port such as a serial bus port using the Universal Serial Bus USB standard or the IEEE 1394 High Speed Serial Bus standard e.g. a Firewire port . Alternately or additionally computer may include a wireless data port such as a Bluetooth interface a Wi Fi interface an infrared data port or the like.

It should be appreciated that a computing device employed according various examples of the invention may include more components than computer illustrated in fewer components than computer or a different combination of components than computer . Some implementations of the invention for example may employ one or more computing devices that are intended to have a very specific functionality such as a digital music player or server computer. These computing devices may thus omit unnecessary peripherals such as the network interface removable optical disk drive printers scanners external hard drives etc. Some implementations of the invention may alternately or additionally employ computing devices that are intended to be capable of a wide variety of functions such as a desktop or laptop personal computer. These computing devices may have any combination of peripheral devices or additional components as desired.

With reference to a visual training aid includes an eyewear article a processor memory a global positioning system and an image generator . Visual training aid further includes an optional image capturing device or camera or to capture images of the terrain surrounding the user. Visual training aid also includes a clock for measuring relevant time intervals. Additional components are included in certain examples such as laser range finders and radar systems. Additionally or alternatively the visual training aid may include data cables wireless data transmitters and receivers and removable computer readable storage mediums.

As will be described in more detail below visual training aids such as visual training aid provide users with dynamically updated visual training data during a workout or athletic activity. Visual training aids described herein may be used in a variety of activities including running skiing snowboarding bicycling horseback riding racecar driving motorcycle driving and other timed competitive endeavors. The visual data helps to provide the user with an awareness of his position relative to the position of a competitor on the course during a prior training session or to his own prior position on a course during a prior training session. This visual data may thus stimulate the user s competitive drive and enhance his workout performance and training satisfaction.

Indeed the disclosed visual training aids enhance training effectiveness and motivation through simulating elements of competition during solo training endeavors. For demonstrating an example of the simulated competition provided by the visual training aids described herein brief reference is made to a visual training aid shown in . The reader can see in that a user utilizing visual training aid sees an augmented reality display which includes a computer generated representation of a first person and a computer generated image of a second person . A person in this context may also be referred to as a competitor a virtual competitor or a prior performer. 

The computer generated images of the first and second persons may be either static or animated and may depict another person s performance on the course or the user s own past performance on the course. The computer generated images depicting the apparent position of the virtual competitors and relative to the wearer and the surroundings is continually updated based on the position of competitors and on the course during a prior training session relative the user s current position at the same given time interval.

For example if the user s performance falls behind the competitor s prior pace on the course representations of the competitor are displayed such that they appear in front of the user from the user s current vantage point. If the user s performance is faster than the competitor s prior pace representations of the competitor are displayed such that they appear behind the user from the user s vantage point. If a user s pace is substantially the same as the competitor s prior pace on the course representations of the competitor are displayed to appear to the side of the user. The relative position of the trainer and representation of the prior performer will be constantly changing as their respective velocities change throughout the course.

By viewing these displays of a virtual competitor the user will see how his performance is comparing to a prior performance or to a programmed hypothetical performance. Viewing displays of dynamically updated virtual competitors also allow the user to simulate competition making for a more enjoyable and effective training experience.

With reference to the components of visual training aid will now be described. Eyewear serves to support selected components of visual training aid and to position an augmented reality display in a position to be viewed by a user of the visual training aid. Eyewear may include eyeglasses sunglasses monocles goggles head mounted displays helmet mounted displays or any other arrangement of lenses supported proximate the eye.

The reader should understand that the visual training aids described herein do not require eyewear. Indeed in some examples the computer generated display of virtual competitors is displayed on a mobile computing device such as the display or screen of a mobile phone including an iPhone brand mobile phone a personal media player including the iTouch personal media player a personal data assistant and the like.

In examples without eyewear the user carries the mobile device with him during a training session and looks at the screen for example by holding the mobile device in front of him to see on the screen or display the position of virtual competitors relative to his own position. In one example the augmented reality display on the mobile device includes a map depicting the course similar to a global positioning system map depicting a route with virtual competitors positioned relative to the user s current position on the map. In other examples the augmented reality display is a real time image of the surroundings visible through a camera lens of the mobile device with computer generated virtual competitors represented on the display in a position based on the person s position on the course during a prior training session relative to the user s current position and at the same given time interval.

Processor is programmed with instructions for receiving data from components of visual training aid including memory global positioning system camera and clock or timer . Data from components of visual training aid such as global positioning system camera and clock may be in a raw format that is not directly usable by other components of visual training aid such as image generator or memory . Accordingly processor is programmed with instructions for translating computing converting correlating and integrating collectively processing data from each component into usable formats.

For example processor is programmed with instructions for processing prior position data and prior time interval data from memory current position data from global positioning system course image data from camera and current time interval data from clock . The processed data may be stored into memory communicated to databases or devices over the internet or sent to other components of visual training aid such as image generator . Although processor may process and store processed data visual training aid storing raw data into memory or into other databases is equally within this disclosure. Data collected by components of visual training aid may be displayed in a readable way stored and retrieved to local or remote storage means including mobile devices cloud technologies internet servers and social networking applications and sites.

Reading past position data from memory may include reading multiple sets of past position data from memory . For example each set of past position data may correspond to a person s position on the course during prior training sessions at a given time interval relative to the respective course start times for each prior training session. The past position data may correspond to different people s position or a single person s position during two or more prior training sessions.

Processor is programmed with instruction for determining a current position of the user or eyewear article on a course at a given time interval relative to a current course start time. To make these determinations processor dynamically obtains current position data from global positioning system and time interval data from clock . Additionally or alternatively the processor may receive one or more of these data from memory.

Processor is further programmed with instructions for generating competitor image data depicting a person s position on a course relative to the user s current position at a given time interval. The competitor image data may include data corresponding to images of multiple competitors. The competitor image data includes instructions for image generator to display an image on the lens depicting a person s or competitor s position on the course during a prior training session relative to the current position of the user or of eyewear article at a given time interval.

The competitor image data may include various parameters determining how the image of the virtual competitor will be displayed. For example the competitor image data may include where in the user s field of view the computer generated image of the virtual competitor is to be displayed to account for where the user is currently looking. Additionally or alternatively the competitor image data may include the size of the image of the virtual competitor to display to account for proper distance and perspective. Further the competitor image data may include the profile of the virtual competitor to display e.g. a view of the virtual competitor s back left side right side or front to account for where the user is looking and the respective position of the user and the person s prior position on the course at the relevant time interval.

For example processor may be programmed with instructions to dynamically adjust the direction in which the graphical representation of a prior performer s position is displayed based on dynamically updated data representing the direction the user is currently looking. For example if the user is looking straight ahead and the competitor s prior performance at that given time interval was ahead of the user s current position the processor instructions specify that the graphical representation of the prior performer s back side be displayed to appear in front of the user. If the user were to look to his right 60 the processor instructions specify that the graphical representation of the prior performer s back side be displayed to appear 60 to the left of the user.

The visual training aids described herein may include any conventional means for detecting the direction a user is looking. For example the visual training aid may include eye tracking devices accelerometers to detect head position and orientation image capturing devices to capture images of the terrain around the wearer laser range finders radar and computer vision technologies.

Processor is programmed with instructions for outputting or sending data to components of visual training aid including memory and image generator . For example processor is programmed with instructions for sending current position data and current time interval data to memory . Additionally processor is programmed with instructions for sending competitor image data to image generator including competitor image data for multiple virtual competitors.

Processor may be programmed with instructions to generate competitor image data including an animated depiction of a person on the course during a prior training session relative to the current position of the user or eyewear article at the given time interval. An animated depiction of the person or virtual competitor has been observed to increase the realism of the virtual competitor and to enhance the competitive effect of racing against the virtual competitor.

Processor may be any conventional processor suitable for inputting processing and outputting data consistent with the functions and programmed instructions described herein. The processor may include multiple processors programmed to carry out specific instructions in concert. The processor may be specially fabricated for use in the visual training aids described herein or may employ commercially available processors or processors used for other devices.

For example the processor used by visual training aids may be a processor incorporated within an Apple iPhone brand mobile phone which is designed for functions beyond those applicable to a visual training aid. User installed software may provide all necessary instructions and drivers to achieve the functions described herein of a visual training aid. Other suitable processors include those utilized by Apple iTouch brand mobile devices mobile devices designed with the Android operating system other mobile devices including portable media players personal computers watches and other mobile computing devices that are capable of executing third party developed software.

Additionally or alternatively proprietary processor systems designed specifically for use with visual training aids describe herein are equally within this disclosure. In such designs the processor system may include operating system software.

Memory may comprise any conventional data storage medium known in the art. For example memory may include magnetic media optical media flash media and the like. Memory may also include a plurality of memory units each memory unit being the same media or one or more being different types of media.

In the example shown in global positioning system dynamically determines the current real time position of the user as he moves about a course. This data may be described as current position data. Additionally or alternatively current position data may be obtained from external sensors that monitor the position of the user and or a component of the visual training aid. Other technologies including pedometers accelerometers and magnetometers may work in conjunction with global positioning systems and in some examples replace them to generate position and other training data.

Any conventional global positioning system may be used for generating current position data. For example commercially available stand alone global positioning systems as well as global positioning systems incorporated into other devices such as cellular phones and portable media players are suitable. Appropriate software cables or wireless data protocols may be employed to communicate the current position data from the global positioning system to the processor. In some examples the processor used by a global positioning system itself may be programmed to carry out the functions and instructions of the visual training aids described herein.

The current position data is sent to processor for generating instructions for use by image generator . Specifically processor uses the current position data and time stamped past position data of a prior person or persons stored in memory to determine the position of the user relative to the person s position on the course during a prior training session at a given time interval. Time stamped position data refers to position data cross referenced with time interval data. Processor then sends image data to image generator for displaying an image to the user depicting the person s position on the course during the prior training session relative to the current position of the user at the given time interval.

Processor may be configured to use the current position data in conjunction with timing data from clock to generate a wide range of training data. The training data may include the user s current speed average speed cadence information and workout duration among various other useful metrics relating to the current workout. The training data may also include cues for the user including graphical cues assisting the user to follow a route such as maps and arrows cues assisting the user in knowing when to begin a particular workout and cues informing the user of the previous pace in which the same route was completed. The training data may be displayed to the user over the course of a workout and or may be stored in memory for later retrieval.

In addition to the training data described above processor is configured to use the current position data in conjunction with timing data from clock to generate and store or upload a set of time stamped position data for use in subsequent training sessions. The time stamped position data generated during a current training session can serve as past position data during subsequent training sessions either by a 3party trainee or by the user himself. That is the user s time stamped position data processed by processor and stored in memory may be used by processor during a subsequent training session as the basis for generating a virtual competitor for the user of visual training aid.

Image generator displays an image on the lens for viewing by the user of visual training aid based on competitor image data supplied by processor . In some examples the image generator is configured to display a series of images in succession to define a video or an animated depiction of the virtual competitor.

Image generator may include a wide variety of image display technologies. In some examples the image generator includes a projector configured to project an image or a series of images onto the lens. In other examples the image generator includes a hologram generating system for generating holograms viewable by the user. In some examples the image generator includes a heads up display projection system.

In still further other examples the image generator and or the processor is configured to display in image visible to the user on a screen or display that at least partially blocks a user s view through the lens. For example the visual training aid may include an opaque screen positioned across at least a portion of at least one of the lenses in a pair of eyeglasses and a projector configured to project an image onto the screen. In another example the image generator includes a display monitor such as an liquid crystal display positioned across at least a portion of a lens for displaying an image or a series of images to a user. While the user is unable to see through the screen or the display monitor the image generator may display images corresponding to the user s surroundings based on course image data supplied by processor in conjunction with camera .

Camera serves to capture images of a course including the user s surroundings and the corresponding terrain. Data corresponding to images of the course and surroundings may be described as terrain image data or course image data. When displayed on the lens of eyewear the terrain image data enables the user to perceive his surroundings even if he does not have a direct line of sight to his surroundings. For example the terrain image data may enable the user to perceive his surroundings when an opaque screen or display monitor is positioned in front of one of more of his eyes.

In some examples camera is a video camera configured to capture a series of images in succession to define a video. A wide variety of acceptable cameras and or video cameras are commercially available. The resolution of the cameras may be selected to optimize data throughput and image quality. Acceptable resolutions include interlaced and progressive image scans at 480 525 720 1080 vertical scanning lines as well as vertical scanning lines in between higher and lower than these example values.

In some examples the visual training aid includes two or more cameras. In one example a first camera is positioned to capture forward course image data corresponding to images of the course forward of a user wearing the eyewear and a second camera is positioned to capture rearward course image data corresponding to images of the course behind the user. In other examples a sufficient number of cameras are used to capture images providing a substantially 360 view of the course.

The reader should understand that the camera is an optional feature of the visual training aids described herein. In some examples the visual training aid does not include a camera. For instance when the image generator is configured to display images of virtual competitors on a substantially transparent lens the user can see the course and the terrain through the lens without the need for a camera. In these examples the depictions of the virtual competitors are integrated with the actual view of the course and the terrain through the lens by where and how they are displayed on the lens.

Clock may be any conventional mechanical or software based time keeping device. In addition to a host of conventional functions a clock may serve in conjunction with a processor in a computing device clock serves as a timer for generating time interval data.

The time interval data corresponds to the time difference between a given time on a course after starting a training session on the course. A current time interval is applicable to a user s current training session and is defined as the user s current time on a course minus the user s current course start time. A past time interval is applicable to a person s prior training session on a course and is defined as the time difference between a given time on the course during a prior training session and the person s past course start time during that prior training session.

The current time interval will dynamically increase with the passage of time after a current course start time. Clock is configured to dynamically output time interval data to processor . Processor uses the current time interval data to determine which past position data is applicable for generating image data to image generator . In particular processor will select past position data having a past time interval equal to the current time interval to correlate a person s position on the course during a prior training session with a user s current position on a course at a same given time interval. In this manner the position of the virtual competitor relative to the user s current position at a given time interval can be displayed to the user.

Turning attention to a visual training aid will now be described. Visual training aid includes many similar or identical features to visual training aid although combined in unique and distinct ways. Thus for the sake of brevity each feature of visual training aid will not be redundantly explained. Rather key distinctions between visual training aid and visual training aid will be described in detail and the reader should reference the discussion above for features substantially similar between the two visual training aids.

With reference to visual training aid includes an eyewear article in the form of eyeglasses a processor memory a global positioning system a first image generator a second image generator and a clock . As shown in visual training aid generates an augmented reality display to serve as a training aid for a user. As shown in all components of visual training aid are supported by eyewear .

Eyeglasses support components of visual training aid and position augmented reality display in a position to be viewed by a user. In the example shown in eyeglasses include a first lens a second lens and a frame . In other examples the eyewear article includes a single lens.

First and second lenses and are made of a substrate that is generally suitable for the display of an image on their surface for transmission of light through the lens. In some examples one or both of the lenses are configured to transmit light primarily in a first direction towards the user s eye with reduced or no transmission of light in the opposite direction. A wide range of conventional lenses may be used.

Frame supports a first lens support and a second lens support . Frame may be made from any material conventionally used to construct eyeglass frames including plastics and metals. The frame may adopt a wide variety of conventional eyewear frame designs. However in the example depicted in frame is specially designed with a compartment for housing components of visual training aid including processor memory global positioning system and clock . Additional components such as batteries may be housed in compartment as well.

Visual training aid can be operated in multiple modes. For example modes of operation include a mode where both first image generator and second image generator are displaying augmented reality displays a mode where just one of the first and second image generators are displaying an augmented reality display and a mode where neither the first and second image generators are displaying an augmented reality display. The mode of operation depicted in is a mode where only first image generator is displaying an augmented reality display on only first lens .

However visual training aid may be operated in a mode where second image generator is displaying an augmented reality display onto second lens either by itself or at the same time that first image generator is displaying augmented reality display onto first lens . In another mode both first image generator and second image generator are deactivated. In some examples one or both image generators are configured to display augmented reality displays on an external surface or medium distinct from the lenses.

As can be seen in all of the components of visual training aid are supported by eyeglasses . In particular frame supports processor memory global positioning system and clock in compartment . Frame further supports first and second image generators and and first and second lenses and . Thus visual training aid may be described as a self contained or standalone embodiment.

Turning attention to a visual training aid will now be described. Visual training aid includes many similar or identical features to visual training aids and although combined in unique and distinct ways. Thus for the sake of brevity each feature of visual training aid will not be redundantly explained. Rather key distinctions between visual training aids and and visual training aid will be described in detail and the reader should reference the discussion above for features substantially similar between the different visual training aids.

With reference to the reader can see that visual training aid includes components separated from one another and connected by data wires or cables and . Whereas visual training aid was self contained visual training aid includes a system of separated components working together to achieve visual training aid functions substantially similar to those described above. The reader can further see in that visual training aid includes a camera and an external device in addition to an eyewear article in the form of eyeglasses with a lens a processor memory a global positioning system a image generator and a clock .

Data cables and may be any conventional data cable suitable for exchanging applicable data between devices. A variety of analog and digital data transfer technologies and interfaces may be employed including interfaces such as the universal serial bus USB interface the high definition multimedia interface HDMI the digital video interface DVI the IEEE 1394 interface and the like. As can be seen in data cable connects global positioning system with processor housed in external device . Data cable connects external device with image generator supported by eyeglasses .

External device houses processor memory and clock . In some examples the external device houses a global positioning system as well. As can be seen in external device includes a display screen which is configured to display information to a user. In some examples the display screen is a touch screen configured to read touch inputs by a user.

The external device may be a wide variety of commercially available electronic devices designed for functions beyond those applicable to a visual training aid. For example the external device may be an Apple iPhone brand mobile phone mobile phones in general an Apple iTouch brand mobile device a mobile device designed with the Android operating system portable media players personal computers personal data assistants watches and other mobile computing devices that are capable of executing third party developed software. External device is programmed with software instructions and drivers necessary for processor to achieve the functions described herein of a visual training aid.

Camera is mounted to eyeglasses in a position to capture course image data. In the example shown in camera is configured to dynamically target a portion of the course and capture course image data corresponding to where a user wearing the eyeglasses is looking.

Processor is configured to dynamically read the course image data from camera and store it in memory in addition to other functions such as correlating the course image data with time interval data from clock and position data from global positioning system . In examples where the visual training aid includes a display monitor the course image data is displayed on the display monitor to assist the user to perceive the course.

Turning attention to a visual training aid will now be described. Visual training aid includes many similar or identical features to visual training aids and although combined in unique and distinct ways. Thus for the sake of brevity each feature of visual training aid will not be redundantly explained. Rather key distinctions between visual training aids and and visual training aid will be described in detail and the reader should reference the discussion above for features substantially similar between the different visual training aids.

With reference to the reader can see that visual training aid includes components separated from one another and in data communication with one another with a first wireless communications link and a second wireless communications link . Whereas visual training aid was self contained and the components of visual training aid were in data communication with data cables and visual training aid includes a system of separated components working together wirelessly to achieve visual training aid functions substantially similar to those described above. The reader can further see in that visual training aid includes a front camera and a rear camera in addition to an eyewear article in the form of eyeglasses with a frame and a lens support a display monitor an external device a processor memory a global positioning system and a clock .

Wireless data communications links and may be any conventional wireless data communications link for exchanging applicable data between devices. For example the wireless data communications links may employ communications standards such as WiFi Bluetooth WiMax and the like. Any conventional or latter developed wireless data communications link technology may be used with visual training aid .

Front camera targets a portion of the course disposed in front of display monitor . Rear camera targets a portion of the course behind the user. Expressed another way front camera is positioned to capture forward course image data corresponding to images of the course forward of a user wearing eyeglasses and rear camera is positioned to capture rearward course image data corresponding to images of the course behind the user. Front camera and rear camera may be the same or different and may each be configured to capture still images or a sequence of still images to define a video.

Display monitor is mounted to eyeglasses in lens support . In the particular example shown in display monitor is at least partially transparent to enable a user wearing eyeglasses to see the course through display monitor . However course image data collected from one or more of front camera and rear camera and displayed on display monitor via instructions from processor further assists the user to perceive the course. In examples where the display monitor is not at least partially transparent the course image data collected by the front and rear cameras and displayed on the display monitor via instructions from the processor may be the primary means for the user to perceive the course by at least one of his eyes.

The virtual training aids described herein may be configured to connect to the internet although this functionality is not required. This disclosure contemplates the use of internet connectivity by internet capable visual training aids to store and retrieve training data between computers and devices connected via the internet. Further two or more visual training aids may share training data between them in real time or over time spans via the internet. Uploading training data to social networking sites and applications is also contemplated.

Visual training aids may additionally include an attached or integrated audio device. The audio devices may be configured to output audio signals to headphones ear buds or other portable means of playing audio. Audio devices may be useful in providing additional training data or for playing stored audio during a workout.

The disclosure above encompasses multiple distinct inventions with independent utility. While each of these inventions has been disclosed in a particular form the specific embodiments disclosed and illustrated above are not to be considered in a limiting sense as numerous variations are possible. The subject matter of the inventions includes all novel and non obvious combinations and subcombinations of the various elements features functions and or properties disclosed above and inherent to those skilled in the art pertaining to such inventions. Where the disclosure or subsequently filed claims recite a element a first element or any such equivalent term the disclosure or claims should be understood to incorporate one or more such elements neither requiring nor excluding two or more such elements.

Applicant s reserves the right to submit claims directed to combinations and subcombinations of the disclosed inventions that are believed to be novel and non obvious. Inventions embodied in other combinations and subcombinations of features functions elements and or properties may be claimed through amendment of those claims or presentation of new claims in the present application or in a related application. Such amended or new claims whether they are directed to the same invention or a different invention and whether they are different broader narrower or equal in scope to the original claims are to be considered within the subject matter of the inventions described herein.

