---

title: Communication sessions among devices and interfaces with mixed capabilities
abstract: Users of various devices may participate in communication sessions, but only if the interfaces and components of such devices feature a minimum set of capabilities involved in the communication session type; e.g., in order to participate in a teleconference, the device of every user has to be capable of sending and receiving audio. Instead, a communication session server may automatically convert session items received from each user into interface-specific representations for each other user, based on the capabilities of the interface and device of the other user. For example, speech recognition may transform speech to text output; speech synthesis may transform text input to speech; and video recognition may identify individuals and gestures in a video stream and represent this information as text. The server may therefore host a “mixed” communication session, where each user may fully participate irrespective of the capabilities of the chosen device and interface.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09043474&OS=09043474&RS=09043474
owner: Microsoft Technology Licensing, LLC
number: 09043474
owner_city: Redmond
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100120
---
Within the field of computing many scenarios involve a communication session between two or more users. As a first example an email conversation involves two or more users who each operate an email interface such as email client bound to an email account accessed via a computer having a display and a text entry device such as a keyboard. As a second example two users participate in a Short Message Service SMS communication session each operating a mobile device having an SMS client and a display and a text entry component. As a third example two or more sets of users may participate in a videoconferencing session where each set of users operates a device that captures the audio and video input from the set of users and presents the audio and video output generated by the other sets of users.

This Summary is provided to introduce a selection of concepts in a simplified form that are further described below in the Detailed Description. This Summary is not intended to identify key factors or essential features of the claimed subject matter nor is it intended to be used to limit the scope of the claimed subject matter.

In many communication session scenarios each user or set of users participating in the communication session operates a device and an interface such as a web browser a chat client an email client or a videoconferencing application having particular input and output capabilities. The communication session is established either through one or more servers or directly in a peer networking arrangement among interfaces based on the common capabilities among the interfaces of the users. For example session items generated by a user are captured by the interface of this user and are transmitted to the devices of other users for output by the interfaces operated therein. In this manner even if users are operating different interfaces such as different email clients or different chat interfaces a communication session may be established among any set of users whose interfaces support a common set of capabilities.

The establishment of communication sessions among a group of users may be complicated by the wide array of devices and interfaces that each user or group of users may utilize to engage in the communication session. Users who wish to engage in a communication session may operate devices having different capabilities and interfaces such as a mobile phone having a display and a keyboard a telephone having only voice communication hardware a netbook having an instant messaging client and a workstation having a videocamera a microphone a display and speakers. Despite these disparate capabilities and interfaces the users may wish to form a communication session.

In order to permit the formation of communication sessions among groups of users who operate devices having different interfaces and capabilities a communication server may be devised that is capable of receiving any session item from any user and rendering interface specific versions thereof for different users based on the capabilities of the interfaces operated by such users. As a first example a first user of a device having a microphone may deliver a session item comprising a voice message and the communication server may utilizing speech to text recognition render a text message and present it to a second user of a device that is capable of receiving text such as an SMS interface of a mobile phone or an email message directed to an email client. Conversely the second user as an operator of a device having one of these text interfaces may transmit a text session item which the communication server may receive render as speech using a speech synthesizer and deliver as a voice session item to the first user. As a second example for users operating a device having a picture or video based output capability such as a television or a digital photo frame images may be generated from non image based session items e.g. by rendering photos or video of text for delivery to such devices. As a third example a video stream received from and depicting a user may be evaluated through various image analysis techniques such as face recognition object recognition and human gesture recognition and a description of the people objects and physical gestures indicated in the video may be rendered as text or speech for delivery to session participants using devices with capabilities respectively of text output or audio output. In this manner a communication server may permit users of devices featuring a variety of input and output capabilities to engage in a communication session and may endeavor to render the session items comprising the input of one user into interface specific formats that are compatible with the output capabilities of the devices of the other session participants.

To the accomplishment of the foregoing and related ends the following description and annexed drawings set forth certain illustrative aspects and implementations. These are indicative of but a few of the various ways in which one or more aspects may be employed. Other aspects advantages and novel features of the disclosure will become apparent from the following detailed description when considered in conjunction with the annexed drawings.

The claimed subject matter is now described with reference to the drawings wherein like reference numerals are used to refer to like elements throughout. In the following description for purposes of explanation numerous specific details are set forth in order to provide a thorough understanding of the claimed subject matter. It may be evident however that the claimed subject matter may be practiced without these specific details. In other instances structures and devices are shown in block diagram form in order to facilitate describing the claimed subject matter.

Within the field of computing many scenarios involve a communication session established between two or more users or two or more sets of users participating as a group. As a first example a teleconference may be conducted over a telephone network by two or more users of telephone devices while a voice over IP communication session may be conducted over a network by users of devices having voice input and output capabilities. As a second example users of devices with video input capabilities such as videocameras and video output capabilities such as a television or computer display may engage in a videoconference where each user may view the video captured by the devices of the other users. As a third example a textual communication session may be established over the internet among two or more users operating devices having text input capabilities such as a keyboard and a display that may render text output of other users and may take many forms such as an instant messaging session a group chat such as an Internet Relay Chat IRC channel a discussion on a web forum rendered within web browsers of different users or an email discussion. 

In these and other scenarios each user or set of users operates a device such as a computer mobile or landline phone or a portable device such as a smartphone or mobile text communicator. Each device may feature a set of hardware components utilized in the communication session including input devices such as a text entry component such as a keyboard a still camera a videocamera and a microphone and output device such as a text display a still image display a video display and one or more speakers. These components may be utilized by an interface to the communication session such as a web browser a Simple Message Service SMS client an Internet Relay Chat IRC client an email client a voice over IP VoIP client or a videoconferencing client which may permit the user to create or connect to a communication session and to send and receive session items such as text messages segments of speech still images and video streams that together comprise the content of the communication session.

In view of the circumstances of the users might initiate the communication session by mutually choosing a communication session type such as an email communication session voice over IP communication session or a videoconference session and then based on the minimum capabilities involved in participating in the selected communication session type each may choose a device that features these minimum capabilities. However the users cannot select a communication session type having minimum capabilities that are not fully supported by the devices and interfaces of both users e.g. if the second user chooses to use the phone device and the phone interface that are incapable of sending or receiving video the users cannot choose a videoconference communication session .

In these and other scenarios users may choose to engage in communication sessions using a variety of devices and interfaces even if each device supports a different set of capabilities. However each communication session is based on a particular set of capabilities and only users whose devices and interfaces satisfy the minimum set of capabilities of a particular communication session type may engage in the communication session . As a first example a teleconference communication session depend on the capabilities of audio input and audio output and a user cannot participate in the teleconference communication session without a device supporting both of these capabilities or at least one capability e.g. a user might be able to listen in on a teleconference presentation with a device featuring a speaker but no microphone but cannot participate in the teleconference. As a second example a user of a mobile phone device having only a voice based interface and only voice capabilities is unable to participate in an SMS communication session as the device is incapable of sending or receiving SMS text messages. Each type of communication session may have distinct advantages and disadvantages. For example a textual communication session may be easier to conduct in a noisy environment and may be conducted over a long period when the users are not concurrently available but may be slower and may lack many nonverbal communication cues. By contrast a voice communication session may permit quicker interaction with more nonverbal communication cues but may only transpire when all users are concurrently available in comparatively noise free environments and at the possible expense of privacy.

In some more sophisticated scenarios a subset of users of a first communication session utilizing a first set of capabilities might be able to utilize a second set of capabilities to enhance the communication session thereamong. For example in a group text chat communication session involving an exchange of text message session items a subset of users who have videocameras and or video presenting capabilities may be able to add videoconferencing thereamong. However only the subset of users whose devices are capable of sending video streams are permitted to do so and only to the subset of users whose devices are capable of receiving the video stream. Thus this additional capability represents the formation of a second communication session among the subset of users having such capabilities users whose devices and interfaces lack such capabilities can neither send nor receive videoconferencing session items and are effectively excluded from the second communication session .

However many of these limitations of communication sessions may be circumvented. Many automated techniques exist to convert one type of communication to another form of communication including text to speech speech synthesis speech to text speech recognition and handwriting to text handwriting recognition techniques. Text information may be converted to an image or video by rendering the text as an image. Other techniques may be applied to identify content in a still or video image including biometric identification techniques that identify known individuals gesture recognition techniques that identify facial expressions hand gestures and body language and machine vision techniques that identify and describe objects depicted in an image. This extracted information may be converted to text descriptions which may be presented as text or as rendered speech. Even uncommon techniques may be used to convert information to and from other communications modalities e.g. a Braille converter may convert text to and from Braille characters.

These automated conversion techniques may be applied to transform session items in a communication session from one form into another form. presents some examples of automated conversion techniques that may facilitate communication sessions. As a first example an audio session item received from a device of a first user of a communication session may be received in the form of a speech segment and may be transmitted to the devices of other users . For devices having interfaces that feature a capability of audio output the audio session item may be delivered to such devices without alteration. However for other devices the audio session item may be transformed into other formats using one or more rendering components that apply various automated techniques to the audio session item . For example a speech to text rendering component may be utilized to transform the speech encoded in the audio session item into text which may be rendered as a transformed session item comprising text that corresponds to the speech in the audio session item . The converted text might also be converted into an image using a text to image rendering component that renders an image comprising the identified text and or to a video that renders a video displaying the identified text e.g. displayed as if sequentially typed. These rendered session items may then be delivered to devices having interfaces capable of outputting such session items to the user s thereof.

As a second example illustrated in a video session item received from a first device might be sent in an unmodified form to a second device having an interface capable of displaying video. However for devices that do not have such an interface various techniques may be utilized to identify significant content visible in the video session item and such significant information may be rendered in various ways. As a first example the video may be converted to an image by extracting one or more video frames and presenting these frames to a user . However a frequent or periodic extraction might consume significant processing power and or network capacity for the sending device s the receiving device s and or any intermediate servers and many video frames might not illustrate any activity of interest e.g. if users are not present or are passively observing the communication session . Instead video evaluation techniques may be utilized to identify significant activity visible in the video session item such that only images depicting such significant activity might be delivered thereby increasing the information to image ratio and economizing computing resources. For example a gesture recognition component may be utilized to identify when one or more individuals visible in the video session item performs a significant gesture such as nodding smiling or raising or waving a hand. When such a gesture is identified a video frame depicting the significant gesture may be extracted by an image rendering component and the extracted image may be presented to a device with an interface capable of displaying images. Additional processing might be applied for other devices and interfaces . For example in addition to identifying a significant gesture a face recognition component may also be applied to the video session item to identify using various biometric techniques the individuals visible in the video. The coupled output from the gesture recognition component and the face recognition component may be utilized to generate a textual description of the content of the video session item e.g. the video segment may depict an individual waving his hand and the evaluated output may be described as Mike waves hello. This output may be delivered to a description rendering component which may generate a textual description of the video session item that may be presented as a textual rendered session item to a device having an interface capable of displaying text. Alternatively or additionally the description may be delivered to a text to speech rendering component that generates speech comprising the description which may be presented as an audio rendered session item to a device having an interface capable of playing audio.

In view of the availability of many automated techniques for converting a session item of a communication session from one format to another such as in the first example and the second example of a communication session server may be devised that allows users to join and participate in a communication session despite differences among the devices of the users the interfaces of the respective devices and the capabilities thereof. Instead the communication session server might comprise a wide variety of conversion techniques and might therefore host a mixed communication session where each participant uses a device and interface having a particular set of capabilities. The communication session server may be configured to identify the capabilities of each device and for each session item received from a user participating in the communication session to render the session item as an interface specific representation based on the capabilities of each interface of the other users . Thus regardless of the limitations of the device and interface each user may send session items that may be received by all participants of the communication session and may interface specific representations of session items received from other users possibly in different formats that are incompatible with the device of the user thus permitting full participation of each user in the communication session .

In view of the capabilities of the interfaces of the devices of each user the communication session server may generate for each interface interface specific representations of the session items received from the other users . For example the communication session server might comprise one or more session item receiving components which may receive session items of various types and one or more interface specific rendering components which may render interface specific representations of the received session items for delivery to the interfaces of the other users . As a first example the video client interface operated by the first user and the second user may present a video rendering of the communication session which may feature e.g. a set of avatars representing the third user and the fourth user . Because the video client interface only features a video receiving capability the session items received from these users may be rendered as video e.g. as rendered text organized horizontally under the avatar of the user who sent the session item and vertically to indicate chronological ordering of the session items . In this video rendering may therefore present the audio input received from the third user and identified e.g. using a speech recognition technique and the text input received from the fourth user as video rendered text. As a second example the communication session server may deliver to the telephone interface of the second user an audio rendering of the communication session where the text input received from the fourth user is converted to spoken text e.g. using a speech synthesis technique and the audio input received from the first user and the second user is directly delivered as audio. Moreover any gestures that are visible in the video input of the first user and the second user may be identified e.g. using a gesture identification technique and associated with the user who made the gesture e.g. using a biometric identification technique and descriptions of such gestures may be generated and converted to speech e.g. using a speech synthesis technique for inclusion in the audio rendering . In a similar manner the fourth user may receive a textual rendering of the communication session including text representations of the audio of the first user and the second user text descriptions of the gestures of the first user and the second user and text representations of the audio of the third user .

As illustrates a mixed communication session may therefore be established among all users regardless of the device and interface selected thereby. This configuration may alleviate users of having to choose a particular communication session type based on a set of minimum capabilities which may be difficult or indeterminable for a particular set of devices and interfaces . Instead the users may simply choose to have a communication session and each user may connect using a desired device and interface . Such mixed communication sessions may therefore occur without the users having to discuss or even know the capabilities of the devices and interfaces available among the users . Moreover such mixed communication sessions may enable each user to select an interface among an available set of such interfaces that fits the semantics of the conversation for each user . For example a first user present in a noisy or public environment may choose to participate with a text interface such as a chat client while a second user communicating in a private and quiet environment may choose a video interface and or an audio interface . Regardless of which interface each user chooses the communication session server may endeavor to translate the content and semantics of each user to the other users in a suitable manner. Some embodiments of these techniques may even permit a user to switch interfaces and or devices within the communication session e.g. to switch from an audio interface to a text interface if the environment becomes noisy.

Still another embodiment involves a computer readable medium comprising processor executable instructions configured to apply the techniques presented herein. An exemplary computer readable medium that may be devised in these ways is illustrated in wherein the implementation comprises a computer readable medium e.g. a CD R DVD R or a platter of a hard disk drive on which is encoded computer readable data . This computer readable data in turn comprises a set of computer instructions configured to operate according to the principles set forth herein. In one such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to perform a method of hosting a communication session among a set of users operating a set of devices and interfaces such as the exemplary method of . In another such embodiment the processor executable instructions may be configured to implement a system for hosting a communication session among a set of users operating a set of devices and interfaces such as the exemplary system of . Many such computer readable media may be devised by those of ordinary skill in the art that are configured to operate in accordance with the techniques presented herein.

The techniques discussed herein may be devised with variations in many aspects and some variations may present additional advantages and or reduce disadvantages with respect to other variations of these and other techniques. Moreover some variations may be implemented in combination and some combinations may feature additional advantages and or reduced disadvantages through synergistic cooperation. The variations may be incorporated in various embodiments e.g. the exemplary method of and the exemplary system of to confer individual and or synergistic advantages upon such embodiments.

A first aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the scenarios wherein these techniques may be utilized. As a first example many types of users may be involved in the communication session including individuals groups of individuals devices having various input and output capabilities and automated processes. As a second example of this first aspect many types of devices may be utilized by such users such as workstations notebook computers palmtop and hiptop computers personal data assistants PDAs mobile phones and other mobile communicators landline phones televisions radios digital picture displays and many types of internet appliances. Such devices may also feature many types of input components including hardware and software keyboards pointing devices such as mice touch sensitive displays microphones still cameras videocameras geolocation devices and various types of sensors and many types of output components including displays having video still photo and or text output capabilities speakers printers physical feedback components such as vibration and temperature and gauges. Some input components might promote the accessibility of the communication session such as text to Braille and Braille to text components. As a third example of this first aspect the devices operated by various users may connect with each other and with the communication session server in various ways including network connections over a local or wide area network such as the internet cellular connections infrared and serial or coaxial connections.

As a fourth example of this first aspect many types of interfaces may be presented by the devices which may tie together the input and output capabilities of the device and the instance specific representations of session items received from other users in many ways. For example a device may feature a text input capability such as a keyboard and a text output capability such as a textual display but many types of interfaces may be implemented to engage the user in the communication session through these capabilities . Such interfaces might include e.g. a Simple Message Service SMS or instant messaging IM chat client an email client and a web browser. Moreover such interfaces may vary in many respects e.g. the capability of displaying threads of conversation. Such interfaces may also have various semantics e.g. an instant messaging client may be oriented toward conversations with comparatively short periods between messages among two individuals while an email client may be oriented toward delayed and possibly protracted conversations among potentially large groups.

As a fifth example of this first aspect the devices may present various types of capabilities to the communication session server . Such capabilities may include input capabilities such as a text input capability an audio input capability an image input capability a motion video input capability and an object sending capability such as the capability to send a file. These input capabilities may be represented in many ways for example text input capabilities may be specified in various languages and according to various text communication protocols e.g. instant messaging protocols Simple Message Service SMS protocols text or hypertext email messages and handwriting. These capabilities may also include output capabilities such as a web rendering capability e.g. the capability of the device to render hypertext markup language HTML documents a text output capability an audio output capability an image output capability a motion video output capability and a data object receiving capability such as the capability to receive and render a particular file. 

A particular scenario wherein these techniques may be utilized involves the use of one or more devices represented in a device mesh of a deployable computing environment. Recent attempts have been made to develop techniques for providing access to a computing environment among an array of devices in a consistent deployable and extensible manner. These techniques also seek to provide automated synchronization of data objects among all such devices and the deployment of a common set of applications among the cooperating devices and a centralized service for managing the procuring installing using and uninstalling of applications among such devices. The set of data objects and applications is not necessarily identical among various devices e.g. a workstation may contain a full copy of the data set and a large number of high performance applications e.g. photo editing software and graphically intensive games while a cellphone device having a smaller data store may store only a subset of the data objects and may feature portability applications e.g. a GPS based mapping software that are not relevant to a non portable workstation. However many applications and data objects related thereto may be shared among such devices e.g. a calendar application configured to manage a user calendar object and the computing environment may be adapted to enable the distribution and synchronization of the application and data objects among such devices. It may therefore be appreciated that a computer system may be advantageously represented in a manner that enables the deployment of the computing environment among a set of devices.

In one such technique the computing environment including a set of applications the application resources and data objects used thereby is represented in a manner that may be delivered to devices for rendering according to the capabilities of the device. The objects include the data objects of the computer system such as the user files and data created by the user as well as representations of the myriad devices comprising the computing environment of the user. A computing environment represented in this manner may be delivered to any device and rendered in a manner suitable for the capabilities of the device. For instance a workstation may render the information as a robust and general purpose computing environment while a public workstation may render a different computing environment experience through a web browser e.g. as a virtual machine that may be discarded at the end of the user s session and a cellphone may provide a leaner interface with quicker access to cellphone related information e.g. contacts calendar and navigation data. Moreover updates to the information set e.g. preference changes and updates to data files contained therein may be applied to the authoritative source of the information set and thereby propagated to all other devices to which the information set is delivered.

With respect to this exemplary scenario a user involved in a communication session may utilize one or more devices represented in the mesh and the communication session server may interact with the mesh in many ways. As a first example a device may be represented as an object in the object hierarchy and the communication session server may be able to identify the capabilities of the device according to the details of the device stored in the object hierarchy . As a second example the user participating in the communication session may switch from a first device represented in the mesh to a second device represented in the mesh. The communication session server may be configured to detect such changes and to adjust the rendering of the communication session for the user according to the details of the second device while also presenting the interface specific representations to the second device in a manner that may be consistently rendered with respect to the computing environment. As a third example the user may request to share with other users within the communication session one or more objects represented in the object hierarchy which may be stored e.g. on a different device than currently used by the user to participate in the communication session . The communication session server may then have to interact with the mesh to retrieve the object for sharing with the other users . In these and other ways the communication session server may be configured to interact with the mesh environment in relation to the rendering of the communication session for the user . Those of ordinary skill in the art may devise many scenarios wherein the techniques presented herein might be advantageously utilized.

A second aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to variations in the architecture of such embodiments. As a first example the exemplary system of presents one such architecture but other architectures may be devised and may have advantages with respect to other architectures. For example a centralized architecture might provide a centralized communication session service to an entire set of devices and users involved in one or more communication sessions while a distributed architecture might enable each device to include part or all of an embodiment of these techniques. An even more distributed architecture might resemble a peer to peer network wherein each device might be configured to translate session items generated by an interface into a generic session item and or to receive generic session items and render them for presentation to the interface as an interface specific representation .

As a second example of this second aspect the communication session server may be configured to identify the capabilities of various devices and interfaces in many ways. For example one or more devices might proactively identify the capabilities of the interface e.g. by sending to the communication session server an interface descriptor that includes a list of capabilities of the interface . Alternatively or additionally the communication session server might query a device and or interface for a particular capability e.g. the communication server might send a test video signal to a device and may detect whether the device is capable of rendering the video e.g. by asking the user to respond in a particular way if the video is correctly displayed. 

As a third example of this second aspect the communication session server may render instance specific representations of session items in many ways. For example the interface specific rendering component may be devised e.g. as a set of components configured to translate a session item presented in a first communication modality e.g. a text message into an interface specific representation in a second communication modality e.g. an audio message. This architecture might feature components such as a text to speech renderer a speech to text renderer a video to text renderer a video to image renderer etc. Alternatively or additionally the interface specific rendering component may be devised e.g. as a set of input components configured to translate a session item into a generic session item and a set of output components configured to translate the generic session item into an interface specific representation . This architecture might feature a set of input components such as a text interpreter a handwriting recognition component a speech recognition component a gesture recognizing component and a biometric recognition component and a set of output components such as a text rendering component an image rendering component a speech rendering component and a video rendering component.

As a fourth example of this second aspect the instance specific representations may be delivered to the interfaces of the users in many ways. For example a communication session server may accept a session item and render an instance specific representation thereof for the interface of each device . This embodiment might be useful e.g. in distributed architectures where each device may be configured to render the interface specific representations of generic session items distributed by a server or in a peer to peer manner. Alternatively the communication session server might identify a group of two or more interfaces having a common sets of capabilities and may generate one interface specific representation of the session item for each group. This embodiment may be useful e.g. where a large number of users are present in the communication session and where the rendering of an interface specific representation might result in many redundant renderings of a session item in the same manner for multiple users using interfaces with similar capabilities. Those of ordinary skill in the art may devise many architectures whereby the techniques discussed herein may be implemented.

A third aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the management of the communication session by the communication session server . In simpler embodiments of these techniques the communication session server may simply permit users to connect interfaces to form a communication session which may be initiated when at least two interfaces connect and may continue to exist as long as such connection remains. In more sophisticated embodiments the communication session server may participate in the creation and management of the communication session and may facilitate such added capabilities as administration of the communication session the authentication of users and the persistence of the communication session through the joining and exiting of various users possibly even including the persistence of the communication session after all users have exited.

As a first example of this third aspect the communication session server may participate in the management of the state of the communication session . For example the communication session server may be configured initiate the communication session e.g. instead of simply waiting for users to initiate the communication session the communication session server may spontaneously initiate a virtual room or allocate resources for the communication session at a scheduled time. The communication session server might also assist in the adding and removing of users to and from the communication session . For example upon receiving a request from at least one user of a device to join the communication session the communication session server may join the user s of the device with the communication session e.g. by announcing the arrival of the newly arriving user s and upon receiving a request from at least one user of a device to exit the communication session the communication session server may exit the user s of the device from the communication session e.g. by announcing the departure of the exiting user s . The communication session server may also be configured upon exiting all users from a communication session to terminate the communication session . Alternatively the communication session server may be configured to persist the communication session for a period even after all users have exited in case some users later enter or reenter the communication session .

As a second example of this third aspect the communication session server may participate in the identity authentication or anonymizing of various users within the communication session . For example the communication session server may host one or more user profiles each of which may include a description of one or more users and or a set of roles or capabilities that the user may have in the communication session . Alternatively these user profiles and or capabilities might be held by a particular user e.g. in a certificate generated by an identity server and that is verifiable by the communication session server . Moreover a user profile may be verified according to one or more authentication credentials such as a password a biometric measurement or a digital certificate which the communication session server may verify before associating a user with a user profile. Accordingly upon receiving a request from at least one user join the communication session with a particular user profile the communication session server may receive from the user s at least one authorization credential and may join the user s to the communication session with the user profile upon verify the authorization credential with the user profile. Alternatively or additionally the communication session server may include an anonymous user profile and may permit one or more users to request to join the communication session with the anonymous user profile. Moreover the communication session server might promote the anonymizing of a user joining with an anonymous user profile e.g. by obscuring the internet protocol IP address or telephone number of the user from other users in the communication session and or by disguising the voice and or video of the session items sent by the user .

As a third example of this third aspect the communication session server may participate in the assignment of roles to various users . For example users in a communication session may be assigned to various roles such as an administrator role for users who are permitted to alter the state of the communication session such as initiating or terminating the communication session and inviting or excluding participants a participant role for users who are permitted to send session items to the communication session server e.g. who are permitted to appear speak deliver text and or submit objects to the communication session and an observer role for users who are permitted to receive interface specific representations of the session items . Moreover these roles may be represented as session capabilities associated with a user profile. For example when a user is assigned to a particular user profile the user profile may specify the session capabilities of the user during the communication session . In one such embodiment a user may be associated with profile specific capabilities e.g. the capabilities of the user that the communication session server is to utilize while exchanging session items with the user . These profile specific capabilities may be specified by the user as the desired set of capabilities that the user wishes to utilize for the user profile e.g. only text input and text output capabilities when participating in an anonymous role but video and or voice input and output capabilities when participating in a non anonymous role or may be assigned by another user such as an administrator e.g. specifying that high priority observers may receive video interface specific representations of session items and that low priority observers may only receive textual interface specific representations of session items . In either case when a user is associated with profile specific capabilities to be used in rendering interface specific representations of session items exchanged with the user the communication session server may apply these profile specific capabilities. For example upon receiving a session item from the user the communication session server may render the session item according to the profile specific capabilities of the user profile of the user e.g. automatically transforming video into text pursuant to a text input capability and upon receiving a session item from another user to be delivered to the user with profile specific capabilities the communication session server may accordingly render the interface specific representation of the session item according to the profile specific capabilities of the user .

As a fourth example of this third aspect the communication session server may be configured to accept operations from users that alter various aspects of the communication session . For example users may be permitted to issue commands to the communication session server to initiate or terminate a communication session to join or evict particular other users and to adjust the capabilities of other users including the administrative capabilities and the interface capabilities . A comparatively simple embodiment of these techniques may upon receiving the operation from a user that relates to the communication session instruct the communication session server to perform the operation on the communication session .

More sophisticated embodiments of this fourth example may implement variations of this fourth example. In a first such embodiment respective operations that may be performed on the communications session may utilize various administrative capabilities such as the administrative capability to alter the communication session and the administrative capability to manage other users of the communication session . Moreover respective users of the communication session may comprise zero or more administrative capabilities which may be assigned e.g. according to the user profile associated with the user as in the exemplary scenario of or according to roles assigned on an ad hoc basis e.g. the first user to join a communication session may be designated as the first administrator of the communication session and other users may be designated as participants unless granted other roles or administrative capabilities by an administrator. The communication session server may therefore verify the administrative capabilities of a user before applying any operation requested by the user . For example the communication session server may be configured to upon receiving an operation from a user identify the administrative capabilities utilized by the operation identify the administrative capabilities associated with the user and may perform the operation on the communication session after verifying that the user comprises the administrative capabilities utilized by the operation.

In some embodiment of this fourth example of this third aspect the communication session server may be configured to receive operations specified in a text format. For example the communication session server may be configured to accept text operations in one or more text communication protocols such as an email communication protocol an instant message protocol a short message service SMS communication protocol and a hypertext transport communication protocol such as HTTP e.g. if the communication session is implemented as a RESTful service. Because many devices support text entry the capability of the communication session server to accept text operations may be particularly convenient. For example a communication session server capable of accepting text operations may be administrated by users operating such diverse interfaces as email clients instant messaging clients SMS clients and web browsers. Moreover the communication session server may be configured to facilitate the entry and acceptance of such text operations e.g. by featuring a fairly simple and concise command set that may be comparatively easy to enter into a text interface such as a T9 based mobile phone texting system and to compensate for typographical and syntactic errors by comparing the text operation to known text operations e.g. using an approximating or degree of similarity string matching algorithm and by identifying a known text operation that at least approximately syntactically matches the text operation.

Communication session servers may be configured to accept and apply many types of operations according to this fourth example of this third aspect. As a first example the operation may comprise an invitation to add a user of at least one device to the communication session . The communication session server may fulfill this operation by sending an invitation to a device of the invited user e.g. by sending an SMS text invitation to a mobile phone of the user or by sending an email message to an email account of the user and upon receiving from the user an acceptance of the invitation by joining the user with the communication session . As a second example the operation may comprise a request from a first user to share at least a portion of his or her user profile with one or more other users . The communication session server may fulfill this operation by representing the first user to the other users according to the specified portion of the user profile e.g. by revealing the name title administrative capabilities and or interface capabilities of the first user to the other users . For example the first user may have initially joined the communication session with a user profile but may have initially requested the communication session server to represent the user to other users with an anonymous user profile . If the first user later begins to trust a second user the first user may request the communication session server to reveal particular aspects of the first user s user profile to the second user . The revelation of such information to the second user by the communication session server may be more trustworthy reliable and or verifiable to the second user than an unverifiable assertion of such information by the first user .

As a fifth example of this third aspect the communication session server may be configured to adapt to changes in the devices and interfaces of various users . In a first such embodiment the communication session server may identify which users are participating in a particular interface on a particular device . For example a communication session server having a biometric measurement recognition component may identify the individuals visible in a video stream and when new individuals enter the video stream or when present individuals leave the communication session server may announce such arrivals and departures to the other users in the communication session . In a second such embodiment the communication session server may permit users to switch interfaces and devices and may correspondingly adapt the participation of the user in the communication session . For example upon detecting a transition of a user participating in the communication session from a first interface of a device to a second interface of the same or a different device the communication session server may identify the capabilities of the second interface and the device and may subsequently deliver session items to the user by rendering interface specific representations based on the capabilities of the second interface . This adaptation might be achievable even without notifying the other users of the change of interfaces and or devices by the user . Such adaptations are difficult or incompatible with servers providing other types of communication sessions particularly servers providing a particular communication session type such as those illustrated in the exemplary scenario of but may be readily achievable by communications session servers configured according to the techniques discussed herein.

A fourth aspect that may vary among embodiments of these techniques relates to the presentation of the interface specific representations of the session items to the users of the communication session through the respective interfaces and devices . As a first example many types of instance specific representations might be rendered based on a particular session item . For example the communication session server might receive from a first user a set of session items comprising text and may endeavor to render interface specific representations for a second user of a device and interface having a video output capability such as a television. The text may be rendered in many ways e.g. by simply displaying a new block of text by animating the text to appear as if typed as in the exemplary transformed session item in the first example of or by presenting the text in a threaded manner such as under an avatar representing the user who sent the text as in the video rendering in the exemplary scenario of . As another example session items comprising segments of an audio and video stream may be represented to a user of a device having only a text input capability in various ways e.g. by simply translating spoken words to text and or by identifying significant gestures within the video and or biometrically identifying individuals present in the video.

As a second example of this fourth aspect because the session items often comprise a conversation within the communication session various session items may have a responsive relationship with other session items . For example a first text session item submitted as an email message may prompt a reply email message that is represented as a second text session item . Such responsive relationships may be specified by the user who authored the session item e.g. this message is in reply to that message or may be inferred from the semantic content or metadata of the session item e.g. by identifying a quoted portion of a first email message as the body of a second email message. Embodiments of these techniques may be configured to detect such responsive relationships and with an interface specific representation of a first session item may also send an indication of a responsive relationship with a second session item . The interfaces of the devices operated by the users may then include the responsive relationship indications in the presentation of the communication session to the user e.g. by displaying the session items in a threaded manner.

As a third example of this fourth aspect a communication session server may comprise a session item store that is configured to store the session items of a communication session and may be configured to upon receiving a session item for the communication session store the session item in the session item store. The stored session items may then be utilized by the communication session server in many ways. As a first embodiment of this third example a communication session server may accept requests from various users to view an excerpt summary digest or transcript of the communication session either during the communication session or after the communication session has terminated and the users may or may not be or have been participants in the communication session . Moreover the users submitting such requests may operate a particular device featuring an interface . For sessions that are not publicly accessible the communication session server might first verify that the user submitting the request has permission to view the communication session . If the request is deemed permissible the communication session server may fulfill such requests by retrieving the session items associated with the communication session from the session item store by identifying the capabilities of the interface and by presenting the session items to the user in an interface specific manner e.g. by rendering interface specific representations of the respective session items according to the capabilities of the interface and sending the interface specific representations of the session items to the user via the interface . If so requested by the user the communication session server might also apply various search criteria filters sorting and or ordering e.g. by priority or chronology or summarizing to the presented session items . In this manner the communication session server may use the session item store to render on behalf of a user a replay report or digest based updating of a communication session .

As a second embodiment of this third example of this fourth aspect in some cases the communication session server may receive a session item that simply cannot be rendered as an interface specific representation for a particular interface and or device . Instead the communication session server may store the session item in the session item store and notify the user of the incompatible interface and or device via the interface of the receipt of the session item and the storing thereof. Later upon receiving from the user via a second interface of the same or another device that is capable of rendering the session item a request to access the session item the communication session server may retrieve the session item from the session item store and render it for the user e.g. by identifying at least one capability of the new interface by rendering an instance specific representation of the session item according to the capabilities of the new interface and by send the instance specific representation to the user via the new interface . For example in the exemplary scenario of the fourth user shares a document with the other users but the third user is operating a telephone device having a simple telephone interface and the communication session server cannot meaningfully render the document as an interface specific representation . Instead the communication session server may notify the third user of the availability of the document and when the third user later requests the document from another device such as a workstation computer the communication session server may provide the document to the third user . Those of ordinary skill in the art may devise many techniques for presenting the communication session to a user in accordance with the techniques discussed herein.

Although the subject matter has been described in language specific to structural features and or methodological acts it is to be understood that the subject matter defined in the appended claims is not necessarily limited to the specific features or acts described above. Rather the specific features and acts described above are disclosed as example forms of implementing the claims.

As used in this application the terms component module system interface and the like are generally intended to refer to a computer related entity either hardware a combination of hardware and software software or software in execution. For example a component may be but is not limited to being a process running on a processor a processor an object an executable a thread of execution a program and or a computer. By way of illustration both an application running on a controller and the controller can be a component. One or more components may reside within a process and or thread of execution and a component may be localized on one computer and or distributed between two or more computers.

Furthermore the claimed subject matter may be implemented as a method apparatus or article of manufacture using standard programming and or engineering techniques to produce software firmware hardware or any combination thereof to control a computer to implement the disclosed subject matter. The term article of manufacture as used herein is intended to encompass a computer program accessible from any computer readable device carrier or media. Of course those skilled in the art will recognize many modifications may be made to this configuration without departing from the scope or spirit of the claimed subject matter.

Although not required embodiments are described in the general context of computer readable instructions being executed by one or more computing devices. Computer readable instructions may be distributed via computer readable media discussed below . Computer readable instructions may be implemented as program modules such as functions objects Application Programming Interfaces APIs data structures and the like that perform particular tasks or implement particular abstract data types. Typically the functionality of the computer readable instructions may be combined or distributed as desired in various environments.

In other embodiments device may include additional features and or functionality. For example device may also include additional storage e.g. removable and or non removable including but not limited to magnetic storage optical storage and the like. Such additional storage is illustrated in by storage . In one embodiment computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein may be in storage . Storage may also store other computer readable instructions to implement an operating system an application program and the like. Computer readable instructions may be loaded in memory for execution by processing unit for example.

The term computer readable media as used herein includes computer storage media. Computer storage media includes volatile and nonvolatile removable and non removable media implemented in any method or technology for storage of information such as computer readable instructions or other data. Memory and storage are examples of computer storage media. Computer storage media includes but is not limited to RAM ROM EEPROM flash memory or other memory technology CD ROM Digital Versatile Disks DVDs or other optical storage magnetic cassettes magnetic tape magnetic disk storage or other magnetic storage devices or any other medium which can be used to store the desired information and which can be accessed by device . Any such computer storage media may be part of device .

Device may also include communication connection s that allows device to communicate with other devices. Communication connection s may include but is not limited to a modem a Network Interface Card NIC an integrated network interface a radio frequency transmitter receiver an infrared port a USB connection or other interfaces for connecting computing device to other computing devices. Communication connection s may include a wired connection or a wireless connection. Communication connection s may transmit and or receive communication media.

The term computer readable media may include communication media. Communication media typically embodies computer readable instructions or other data in a modulated data signal such as a carrier wave or other transport mechanism and includes any information delivery media. The term modulated data signal may include a signal that has one or more of its characteristics set or changed in such a manner as to encode information in the signal.

Device may include input device s such as keyboard mouse pen voice input device touch input device infrared cameras video input devices and or any other input device. Output device s such as one or more displays speakers printers and or any other output device may also be included in device . Input device s and output device s may be connected to device via a wired connection wireless connection or any combination thereof. In one embodiment an input device or an output device from another computing device may be used as input device s or output device s for computing device .

Components of computing device may be connected by various interconnects such as a bus. Such interconnects may include a Peripheral Component Interconnect PCI such as PCI Express a Universal Serial Bus USB firewire IEEE 1394 an optical bus structure and the like. In another embodiment components of computing device may be interconnected by a network. For example memory may be comprised of multiple physical memory units located in different physical locations interconnected by a network.

Those skilled in the art will realize that storage devices utilized to store computer readable instructions may be distributed across a network. For example a computing device accessible via network may store computer readable instructions to implement one or more embodiments provided herein. Computing device may access computing device and download a part or all of the computer readable instructions for execution. Alternatively computing device may download pieces of the computer readable instructions as needed or some instructions may be executed at computing device and some at computing device .

Various operations of embodiments are provided herein. In one embodiment one or more of the operations described may constitute computer readable instructions stored on one or more computer readable media which if executed by a computing device will cause the computing device to perform the operations described. The order in which some or all of the operations are described should not be construed as to imply that these operations are necessarily order dependent. Alternative ordering will be appreciated by one skilled in the art having the benefit of this description. Further it will be understood that not all operations are necessarily present in each embodiment provided herein.

Moreover the word exemplary is used herein to mean serving as an example instance or illustration. Any aspect or design described herein as exemplary is not necessarily to be construed as advantageous over other aspects or designs. Rather use of the word exemplary is intended to present concepts in a concrete fashion. As used in this application the term or is intended to mean an inclusive or rather than an exclusive or . That is unless specified otherwise or clear from context X employs A or B is intended to mean any of the natural inclusive permutations. That is if X employs A X employs B or X employs both A and B then X employs A or B is satisfied under any of the foregoing instances. In addition the articles a and an as used in this application and the appended claims may generally be construed to mean one or more unless specified otherwise or clear from context to be directed to a singular form.

Also although the disclosure has been shown and described with respect to one or more implementations equivalent alterations and modifications will occur to others skilled in the art based upon a reading and understanding of this specification and the annexed drawings. The disclosure includes all such modifications and alterations and is limited only by the scope of the following claims. In particular regard to the various functions performed by the above described components e.g. elements resources etc. the terms used to describe such components are intended to correspond unless otherwise indicated to any component which performs the specified function of the described component e.g. that is functionally equivalent even though not structurally equivalent to the disclosed structure which performs the function in the herein illustrated exemplary implementations of the disclosure. In addition while a particular feature of the disclosure may have been disclosed with respect to only one of several implementations such feature may be combined with one or more other features of the other implementations as may be desired and advantageous for any given or particular application. Furthermore to the extent that the terms includes having has with or variants thereof are used in either the detailed description or the claims such terms are intended to be inclusive in a manner similar to the term comprising. 

