---

title: Preconcentrator for analysis instruments
abstract: An interchangeable preconcentrator assembly for delivering an analyte to an analysis instrument. The assembly includes a housing defining an inner chamber. An inlet is in fluid communication with the inner chamber, an outlet is in fluid communication with the inner chamber for delivering fluid to the inlet of the analysis instrument, and an exhaust outlet is in fluid communication with the inner chamber. A plurality of removable preconcentrator packages are disposed within the inner chamber. Each of the removable preconcentrator packages including a microscale preconcentrator. A fluid flow path is defined between the inlet and the inner chamber. A first fluid flow path is defined between the preconcentrators and the exhaust outlet, and a second fluid flow path is defined between the preconcentrators and the outlet. A selectably operable valve directs fluid flow from the inner chamber into either the first fluid flow path or the second fluid flow path.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08569691&OS=08569691&RS=08569691
owner: University of Louisville Research Foundation
number: 08569691
owner_city: Louisville
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101123
---
This application claims the benefit of U.S. Provisional Application Ser. No. 61 264 047 filed Nov. 24 2009 under 35 U.S.C. 119.

This invention was made with Government assistance under Grant No. 2004 IJ CX K0555 issued by Department of Justice. The Government has certain rights in the invention.

The invention relates generally to devices and methods for analyte detection. A more particular field of the invention is analyte collection.

Analyte detection is becoming increasingly important as a security and safety measure. Transportation commercial government educational and other facilities have a need for the sensitive and rapid detection of analytes including those that are indicative of explosives or other substances that pose a threat. In addition in industrial residential and commercial settings analyte detection can provide warning of particles that pose a health or safety risk. Example analytes to be detected include as nonlimiting examples hazardous materials including explosive related materials toxic industrial chemicals TICS narcotics and chemical or biological agents though other analytes may also be detected.

Analysis instruments such as but not limited to detectors have been developed and remain under development for detection of analytes. A nonlimiting example analysis instrument currently used in portable and larger forms is the Ion Mobility Spectrometer IMS such as the GE VaporTrace models. A typical IMS device has separate particle and vapor modes. In particle mode an assembly is affixed to the device to accept and desorb particles from a substrate such as a swab during baggage screening. The swab is inserted into the assembly and is heated to desorb any collected particulates and the particulates are directed via vacuum into the instrument for analysis. This assembly or a different assembly can be affixed to the device for vapor mode in which the device collects vapors for analyte detection. As one nonlimiting example application vapor mode is often used to sample contained areas such as automobile trunks at the entrances to military facilities.

Speed and sensitivity are primary concerns for researchers and manufacturers when using analysis instruments and devices such as preconcentrators can provide improvements for both. Preconcentrators offer the opportunity to enhance the performance of any type of analysis instrument by increasing the concentration of analyte in a volume of fluid sent for analysis. Generally preconcentrators collect analyte over a period of time during absorption and then provide a concentrated fluid stream to the analysis device during desorption.

Desorption preferably uses rapid heating. Microscale preconcentrators provide advantages regarding thermal cycling and desorption particularly that heating for accomplishing desorption can be conducted quickly and with low power. Examples of microscale preconcentrators are disclosed in Manginell et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 527 835 entitled Chemical Preconcentrator with Integral Thermal Flow Sensor and in Manginell et al. U.S. Pat. No. 6 171 378 entitled Chemical Preconcentrator.

Example chemical preconcentrators may be formed from a substrate having a suspended membrane such as low stress silicon nitride and incorporate a flow over design. Other successful microscale preconcentrators with a flow through design are disclosed in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20050095722 incorporated by reference herein published May 5 2005 and entitled Microscale Flow Through Sorbent Plate Collection Device and in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20050226778 published Oct. 13 2005 and entitled Microscale Flow Through Sorbent Plate Collection Device also incorporated by reference herein . The flow through design can increase contact between the analyte fluid flow and the sorbent in the collection area compared to typical flow over designs that would require creating a turbulent flow to match the level of analyte fluid sorbent contact.

Another example preconcentrator design provided by some of the inventors of the present application is provided in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 2009 0249958 application Ser. No. 12 337 449 which is incorporated in its entirety by reference herein.

Embodiments of the present invention provide among other things an interchangeable preconcentrator assembly for delivering an analyte to an analysis instrument. The assembly includes a housing defining an inner chamber. An inlet is in fluid communication with the inner chamber an outlet is in fluid communication with the inner chamber for delivering fluid to the inlet of the analysis instrument and an exhaust outlet is in fluid communication with the inner chamber. A plurality of removable preconcentrator packages are disposed within the inner chamber. Each of the removable preconcentrator packages including a microscale preconcentrator.

A fluid flow path is defined between the inlet and the inner chamber. A first fluid flow path is defined between the preconcentrators and the exhaust outlet and a second fluid flow path is defined between the preconcentrators and the outlet. A selectably operable valve directs fluid flow from the inner chamber into either the first fluid flow path or the second fluid flow path.

Example embodiments of the invention provide among other things an interchangeable preconcentrator assembly for connecting to an inlet of an analysis instrument e.g. an apparatus for analyte storage analysis and or detection . An example assembly permits rapid sequential insertion and removal of a plurality of packaged microscale preconcentrators preconcentrator packages into a stacked formation within an inner chamber of a housing to focus or preconcentrate a desired sample or samples of vapors and or particles prior to desorption into the analysis instrument. By utilizing this stacked arrangement a significant increase in sample signal sensitivity can be achieved. Preferred preconcentrator packages hold the preconcentrators in a protective carriage that includes electrodes for connection to a control circuit. Example preconcentrators include a microscale preconcentrator chip having a plurality of through holes and a heater for heating a surface of the chip. The package can include for example plates at least partially enclosing the chip and at least one electrode coupled to the heater and extending between the plates.

The example assembly includes an inlet in fluid communication with the inner chamber an outlet in fluid communication with the inner chamber for connecting to the inlet of the analysis instrument and an exhaust outlet in fluid communication with the inner chamber. In this way a first fluid flow path is defined between the preconcentrators and the exhaust outlet preferably away from the analysis instrument if the analysis instrument is coupled to the assembly and a second fluid flow path is defined between the preconcentrators and the outlet. A valve is provided in example embodiments for selectively directing fluid flow from the inner chamber into either the first fluid flow path or the second fluid flow path. The valve can be controlled by a selectively operable motor in example embodiments. A fluid flow device separate from coupled to or even integrated with the assembly can be provided for directing fluid flow into or away from the inner chamber. A fluid flow device e.g. a low power fan which in particular example embodiments is disposed in a lower portion of the housing preferably induces fluid flow that is directed from the inner chamber to the exhaust outlet which in such examples may also be in the lower portion. In other embodiments a fluid flow device is alternatively or additionally provided by an external device.

In some example embodiments an urging member disposed in the assembly pushes against one or more of the inserted preconcentrator s packages which are held within the inner chamber to align and secure them such that fluid flow will be primarily through the preconcentrators from the inlet to the assembly. This urging member can be biased such as by a biasing member. In other embodiments the inserted preconcentrators are held within the housing by components such as magnets fasteners quick disconnects etc.

Example assemblies may be useful for example in analyte detection and analysis systems and methods as might be used for the collection detection and analysis of a wide range of vapors or gases particulate and liquid bound analytes. An example assembly of the invention can be configured to attach to or be integrated into one or more analysis instruments for instance at an opening of a detector. A nonlimiting example detector that may be used is an ion mobility spectrometer IMS . For example an assembly can be configured to attach to an IMS or be formed as part of the IMS. However while example embodiments will be described as configured for an IMS an assembly of the invention could also be configured to attach for example to any suitable analysis instrument such as but not limited to a gas chromatography column or other instrument.

Preferred embodiments will now be discussed with respect to the drawings. The drawings include schematic figures that are not to scale which will be fully understood by skilled artisans with reference to the accompanying description. Features may be exaggerated for purposes of illustration. From the preferred embodiments artisans will recognize additional features and broader aspects of the invention.

An example assembly accepts a plurality of the packages . The number of packages accepted can vary with a nonlimiting example being five packages though this number can be lower or higher. Each of the packages best shown in contains a microscale preconcentrator micropreconcentrator . Microscale as referred to herein indicates that the micropreconcentrators are for example less than 10 mm 10 mm 1 mm in size. A nonlimiting pore area for the micropreconcentrators is about 800 square microns.

Referring again to a fluid flow inducing device such as but not limited to a fan and preferably a low power fan forces sample fluid through the assembly to preferably sustain a constant flow that will not damage the micropreconcentrators . Sample fluid may be virtually any fluid including but not limited to air and preferably includes one or more analytes which may be any analyte capable of being concentrated by preconcentrators of the present invention . Though show the fan being disposed downstream from the micropreconcentrators it is contemplated that a fluid flow inducing device may be disposed either upstream or downstream from the micropreconcentrators and may be separate from the housing . Though the fan is provided in the example assembly it is also contemplated that an external fluid flow inducing device may be used. However integrating the fan with the housing preferably provides a more complete assembly for use.

During absorption the sample fluid passes through the inlet and through and or over the plurality of unheated micropreconcentrators in the inner chamber and thus the micropreconcentrators inherently collect desired vapors and or particles. A fluid flow path is thus defined between the inlet and the micropreconcentrators in the chamber .

In the example assembly the inner chamber of the housing is in fluid communication with an outlet at a rear portion of the assembly so that the outlet can interface with an inlet of an analysis device. Also the inner chamber is in fluid communication with an exhaust outlet that is preferably directed away in any direction from the outlet . Thus a first flow path is defined between the inner chamber and the exhaust outlet and a second fluid flow path is defined between the inner chamber and the outlet . In the example assembly the outlet is provided by a sleeve disposed at a back end of the assembly e.g. see and the exhaust outlet is defined by a lower portion of the housing which in an example embodiment also supports the fan . This lower portion may be integral with the housing or may be attached to the housing.

Referring now to to protect the preconcentrator chip and facilitate insertion alignment and removal of the example preconcentrator packages the packages include opposed front and back outer plates of Polyetheretherketone PEEK material encasing the preconcentrator chip. Though other materials are contemplated PEEK is preferred as a polymeric material for the package and other components of the assembly due to its very low out gassing and extremely high chemical and temperature resistance. Other materials may be used that have similar characteristics however such as other low thermal conductive material.

The front and back outer plates in an example embodiment engage one another for instance seated flush with one or another front to back. A sealant such as a gasket not shown may be disposed between the plates engaged at an outer seat of the back outer plate etc. to generally enclose the carriage and protect the micropreconcentrator chip though this is not required in all embodiments. Alignment pins preferably engage with corresponding openings of the front outer plate and openings of the back outer plate to maintain alignment of the front and back outer plates and fasten the outer plates. Preferably except for the outer seat the back outer plate is generally disk e.g. circular or oval shaped. The front outer plate and accordingly the outer seat is preferably generally rectangular e.g. square in shape.

The example individual preconcentrator chips include a substrate e.g. silicon having a substantially central circular porous region providing a flow through area for receiving fluid flow though in other embodiments the preconcentrator chips can have a flow over design as will be appreciated by artisans . The porous region can be heated by for instance resistive heater traces disposed on the substrate e.g. surrounding and or over the porous region that are coupled to an external power source via suitable connections disposed on the substrate. Further the porous region may be coated with a suitable sorbent coating or coatings for sorbing analyte s of interest. Because the packages are preferably easily insertable and removable from the assembly modular packages having preconcentrator chips customized for sorbing analytes of interest can be prefabricated and stored and later selected for use. Example features of example individual microscale preconcentrator chips are provided in U.S. Patent Application Publication No. 20050095722 incorporated by reference herein published May 5 2005 and entitled Microscale Flow Through Sorbent Plate Collection Device though any suitable flow through or flow over microscale preconcentrator chip preferably with a selectively activated heater may be used.

To further secure the preconcentrator chip an inner seat shaped to match or at least constrain movement of the preconcentrator chip substrate may be provided on the back outer plate . The inner seat includes an opening as shown by example in a circular opening aligned with at least a portion of the surface of the preconcentrator chip e.g. the circular porous region for allowing fluid flow from the preconcentrator chip. Similarly an opening e.g. a circular opening is provided in the front outer plate and aligned with the surface of the preconcentrator chip for allowing fluid flow to the preconcentrator chip.

A flex circuit e.g. a polyimide thin film flex board used for external device powering is inserted between the front outer plate and the microscale preconcentrator chip and may be bonded to the preconcentrator chip prior to final assembly of the package to enable connection to the integral resistive heater traces on the micropreconcentrator chips. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that various types of electrical connections can be used. The example flex circuit includes e.g. printed thereon one or more electrical couplings not shown to the connections coupled to the resistive heaters. Contact electrodes not shown for example can formed on the flex circuit e.g. printed on a rear side of the flex circuit extending beyond the front and back outer plates and thus are exposed so that the heating for the absorption and desorption cycles of the micropreconcentrators can be selectively controlled. An opening not shown in best seen in aligned and sized to substantially match the opening of the front and rear outer plates preferably is provided in the flex circuit to allow fluid flow. Instead of or in addition to providing a flex circuit in other embodiments suitable electrodes can be provided with e.g. embedded in formed in or on the cartridge housing such as on the front and or back outer plates .

The example assembly accepts one or more of the modular packages permitting readily the addition and or removal of the packaged micropreconcentrators into the inner chamber of the housing to reach desired sensitivity levels and or to concentrate or exclude particular analytes. Thus the nature of testing to be conducted can be changed on the fly with a simple change of package s . Referring again to to accept and hold the packages in the housing the packages preferably are accepted in the chamber under bias supplied by an urging member such as but not limited to a plunger assembly which in turn is biased by a biasing member such as but not limited to a spring . The example plunger assembly is made of a material having low thermal capacity and low thermal conductivity. An example plunger assembly material is PEEK. The plunger assembly and the spring together provide biasing via spring loading for maintaining position of the preconcentrator packages .

A hollow tube portion of the plunger assembly which preferably is disposed in the inlet of the housing includes an opening completely there through to provide an inlet for a fluid flow path through the housing including through and or over the micropreconcentrators . However it is also contemplated that the fluid flow path may be around or adjacent to the urging member in other embodiments and in this case a substantially hollow tube portion may not be necessary. Also if the packages are attached to the housing e.g. to the inlet or other parts of the housing the biasing member e.g. spring may be omitted.

In an example embodiment the plunger assembly further includes a head at one end of the tube . The head which may be formed integrally with or coupled to the tube includes a front surface for contacting and longitudinally constraining the biasing member and an engaging surface for engaging one of the micropreconcentrator packages . An extension is preferably provided either as an integral part of or a separate part connected to the head for supporting the contact electrodes of the flex circuit when the assembly is completed. The extension and the upper portions of the packages are disposed in a longitudinal opening of the housing when the packages are loaded.

The urging member in the example assembly is biased against the packages to accept them hold them and permit removal while also limiting flow to be primarily through and or over the micropreconcentrators . Other ways to allow the packages to be accepted held and selectively removed such as but not limited to fasteners magnets etc. may be used in place of or in addition to the urging member and biasing member .

After the housing is assembled the modular packages can be sequentially dispensed into the housing preferably using a loading tool such as but not limited to a pair of tweezers forceps. The loading tool s may be configured as needed considering the packages housing and or operating environment. The preconcentrator packages preferably are sequentially dispensed into the assembled housing by using the loading tool to slide the disk between the biased e.g. spring loaded plunger assembly and a lead in which preferably is machined into a front plate of a valve housing. In other embodiments the packages can be connected to one another and or the housing in different ways such as connectors co forming magnets etc.

For selectively controlling fluid flow from the micropreconcentrators to the analysis instrument that is to either the first fluid flow path or the second fluid flow path described above a valve is provided. In the example assembly the valve is a sleeve valve. An example sleeve valve significantly reduces the overall dimension of not only the assembly but the region between the micropreconcentrators and the inlet of any attached analysis instrument reducing the volume and the signal attenuation while also permitting an increase in flow without increasing the pressure drop across the orifice.

In the example sleeve valve arrangement the desorption sleeve is provided which is made of a material having low thermal capacity and high thermal conductivity. The example desorption sleeve primarily scavenges heat from the analysis instrument with its low thermal mass and maintains the same temperature as the analysis instrument preventing any sample vapors and or particles from attaching condensing to the exposed sleeve areas during collection or detection.

In a nonlimiting example embodiment the sleeve valve is driven by a low power DC stepper motor which controllably rotates the valve by a small belt and pulley system. To close the housing and support the sleeve valve the rear of the housing may be provided partially by a valve housing block that includes the front plate and a rear plate . Thus in an example assembly the front plate of the valve housing with the housing block helps generally define the chamber . Other types of actuation are possible for driving the valve.

The front plate preferably includes an opening for accepting the shaft of the low power stepper motor and further includes a throughhole for providing a fluid flow path from the micropreconcentrators. Fixedly connected to and adjacent to the front plate the back plate of the valve housing block includes a seat for accepting a sleeve valve and a wheel of the stepper motor . The wheel is coupled to the sleeve valve such as via a belt or by other forms of mechanical actuation such as but not limited to gears etc. for opening and closing the sleeve valve. Thus in an example embodiment the seat generally can accept a pulley for controlling the sleeve valve via the motor . A portion of the seat includes a throughhole aligned with an opening of the sleeve valve and aligned with the throughhole in the front plate of the valve housing block. Additional through holes may be provided in the front and back plates for accepting fasteners used to fixedly assemble the valve housing block.

In an example embodiment the motor is coupled to a suitable controller and supply source for example connected via a printed circuit board e.g. drive board and or coupled to a power supply or may be operated by an internal battery . In some example embodiments the motor may be attached to the printed circuit board though not in all embodiments. In some example embodiments the board and other suitable controller components and the power supply are attached to the assembly to a larger unit such as a handheld unit including the assembly and the analysis instrument or elsewhere. Those of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that various devices and methods for powering and controlling the motor are possible.

In the example assembly to help connect the assembly to an analysis instrument and define fluid flow channels from the micropreconcentrators a rear plate is connected to the back plate of the valve housing block. This rear plate is in turn attached to a circular plate having an outer flange that engages an inner surface of a threaded ring to hold the threaded ring between the rear plate and the circular plate . The threaded ring includes threads for connecting the assembly to an inlet of an analysis instrument. It will be appreciated that the threaded ring can vary depending on the analysis instrument to be attached thereto. The circular plate seals the entrance to the analysis instrument from the micropreconcentrators except for the opening through which the desorption sleeve passes. Thus the desorption sleeve and sleeve valve can be selectively operated via the motor to open and close fluid flow to the analysis instrument directing fluid flow either to the analysis instrument along the second fluid flow path shown in or away from the analysis instrument along the first fluid flow path shown in . In other embodiments the plate is not circular though a circular plate is useful for fitting to particular systems. shows the assembly attached to an analysis instrument . The example preconcentrator assembly and preconcentrator packages may be used with existing or to be known analysis instruments including but not limited to IMS detectors to improve sensitivity of the analysis instruments.

The rear plate includes a throughhole aligned with the throughhole of the valve housing and thus in the overall fluid flow path through and or over the micropreconcentrators . Additionally the rear plate includes a seat which defines a chamber when the rear plate is flush with the back plate of the valve housing to direct fluid flow away from the preconcentrators that is along the first fluid flow path shown in and away from the analysis instrument . In a nonlimiting example embodiment this chamber leads from the throughhole in the rear plate to an elongated portion aligned with an elongated throughhole in the back plate of the valve housing. A fluid flow path is thus provided from the seat of the rear plate to a lower chamber at a bottom of the housing and to the exhaust outlet for egress of the fluid. This lower chamber can be defined by for instance the lower housing portion attached to the housing though in other embodiments it can be defined by an integral part of the housing.

Referring again to the fluid will first travel through the inlet of the assembly through the plunger assembly . The housing block which acts as a thermal insulation layer encloses the stacked preconcentrator packages in the chamber allowing a seal and preventing the sample fluid from escaping. The fluid exits the inner chamber passing through the front plate of the valve housing block and to the sleeve valve and sleeve . Depending on the selective operation of the sleeve valve and sleeve via the motor the fluid is then directed to either the lower chamber in the lower housing portion preferably with the fluid flow inducing device on or the fluid air enters the analysis instrument via the sleeve and with the fluid flow inducing device preferably off .

During absorption as shown in the fluid flow inducing device preferably disposed downstream from the packaged micropreconcentrators forces fluid through the system sustaining a constant flow that will not damage the analytical preconcentrators . A selectable opening such as but not limited to a valve in the analysis instrument is closed and the sleeve valve within the housing is open permitting the fluid to egress the housing via the second flow path and toward the exhaust outlet so that it can be used at the fan exit potentially releasing other chemical explosive particles from a surface. Sample fluid thus passes through and or over the stack of unheated analytical preconcentrators inherently collecting desired vapors and or particles.

Referring to during desorption mode sample fluid continues to pass through the stack of now heated analytical preconcentrators inherently desorbing the desired vapors and or particles. The sleeve valve is closed and the internal analysis instrument e.g. IMS valve is open permitting the fluid to enter the IMS through the short low volume desorption sleeve and through the outlet for detection.

Embodiments of the present invention can preconcentrate a detection sample at the inlet of a detection device at the microscale or chip level. Further preferred preconcentrator assemblies can mount directly to a detection unit and are completely modular. Example assemblies can be employed for existing analysis instruments e.g. IMS detectors and future instruments to improve sensitivity. Various chip sizes and types can be used in an example arrangement to stack and thus potentially increase signal sensitivity. Potential sample signal sensitivity can be significantly increased compared to some conventional systems.

Additionally the example desorption sleeve scavenges heat from the analysis instrument with its low thermal mass and it maintains the same temperature as the analysis instrument preventing any sample vapors and or particles from attaching or condensing to the exposed sleeve areas during collection detection. This example sleeve valve arrangement significantly reduces the overall dimension of not only the module assembly but the region between the micropreconcentrators and the inlet of the analysis instrument inherently reducing the volume and the attenuation of the signal while also permitting an increase in flow without increasing the pressure drop across the orifice. The provided fluid flow inducing device or a secondary device can be used to expel chemical explosive particles off of various surfaces to enhance collection efficiencies.

The example preconcentrator assembly can be implemented as nonlimiting examples as a module that focuses explosive particles and inherently explosive vapors at the inlet of an explosive detection system which is retrofitted to an existing heating ventilating and air conditioning HVAC system such as an HVAC system in a place of public use e.g. shopping malls sporting arenas amphitheaters museums and many others . Explosive particles and inherently explosive vapors can be detected at the inlet of an explosive detection system that is placed inside a cargo shipping in flight container. Other implementations include inside waste disposal containers for the detection of potential explosive devices in or on public streets. Example modules can focus particles in slow flow of liquid e.g. drinking water to detect heavy metals and or other harmful compounds. Potential applications include but are not limited to explosive narcotics chemical heavy metal and biological detection to increase sensitivity of a detected sample signal.

While various embodiments of the present invention have been shown and described it should be understood that other modifications substitutions and alternatives are apparent to one of ordinary skill in the art. Such modifications substitutions and alternatives can be made without departing from the spirit and scope of the invention which should be determined from the appended claims.

