---

title: Systems and methods for migrating software modules into one or more clouds
abstract: Embodiments relate to systems and methods for migrating software modules into one or more target clouds. The systems and methods can analyze system data to determine software modules supported by the system, and target cloud data to determine which target clouds have a capacity to support a migration of the software modules. In embodiments, benefits of migrating any or all of the software modules to the target clouds can be determined. Based on the benefits, the software modules of the system can be segmented and migrated into systems associated with the multiple target clouds.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08612577&OS=08612577&RS=08612577
owner: Red Hat, Inc.
number: 08612577
owner_city: Raleigh
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101123
---
The present teachings relate to systems and methods for migrating software modules installed on a virtual machine into one or more clouds and more particularly to platforms and techniques for migrating system software modules into one or more clouds based on a code analysis.

Cloud computing environments utilize shared resources software and information that can be provided for use by end users. For example a service level agreement SLA can be entered into between a vendor such as an independent software vendor ISV and a cloud network provider whereby the cloud network provider agrees to commit an amount of resources associated with virtual machines in the cloud network for use by end users during operation of software products and applications of the vendor. In return the cloud network provider can charge the vendor a specified rate in proportion to the amount of committed resources. The cloud network provider provides or maintains an amount of resources in the cloud network such as server uptime persistent storage software application instantiation network performance cloud storage support response time and other elements.

The end users can utilize applications or software modules that are supported by systems of virtual machines in a cloud network. An administrator of the cloud network may wish to optimize usage of the systems that support the applications. More particularly the administrator may want to employ systems that maximize the efficiency of application consumption metrics. However it is sometimes the case that the actual application consumption metrics by the applications in the systems is not maximized or optimal. Further the administrator of the cloud network may desire to locate additional cloud networks that contain additional systems to optimize the end user application usage. Still further conventional systems do not apply static or dynamic code analytics to determine potential module migrations

Therefore it may be desirable to provide systems and methods for migrating system modules into one or more clouds. In particular it may be desirable to migrate system software modules into one or more clouds based on a code analysis from which an advantage benefit efficiency gain and or other effect can be realized.

Embodiments of the present teachings relate to systems and methods for migrating system software modules into one or more target clouds. In particular embodiments relate to migrating system software modules into one or more target clouds based on a code analysis of the system from which an advantage benefit efficiency gain and or other effect can be realized. The target clouds can have a specified amount of resources to execute the software modules and to be utilized by for example end users. For example the resources of the target clouds can be deployed as a Software as a Service SaaS . An administrator of a host cloud or another cloud can desire to migrate or re deploy software modules from the host cloud to the target clouds.

According to embodiments a module migration tool or other logic can analyze a system in a host cloud to determine the software modules utilized by the system. The module migration tool can interface with a set of target clouds comprising systems of virtual machines or other resources capable of supporting the software modules of the host cloud. In embodiments the module migration tool can analyze the systems of the set of target clouds to determine benefits of migrating the software modules to the set of target clouds. The module migration tool can migrate the software modules from the host cloud into the set of target clouds such that the software modules go from a single cloud system to a multi cloud system whereby support of the software modules can be better optimized.

In embodiments the module migration tool can be configured to provide relevant data or information to an administrator of any of the clouds such that the administrator can determine a migration plan for the software modules. For example the administrator may wish to use system analysis data or other data to examine or generate a business model based on an hourly rate consumption rate or other metrics and determine potential candidate clouds based on any relevant business models.

Embodiments as described herein can be implemented in or supported by a cloud network architecture. As used herein a cloud can refer to a cloud based network comprising a collection of resources that can be invoked to instantiate a virtual machine process or other resource for a limited or defined duration. As used herein an end user can refer to a person customer subscriber corporation organization or other entity accessing files and or devices storing the files in the cloud. In embodiments the end user can operate or manage computer software or hardware that can access files and or devices storing the files in the cloud based network. Further as used herein an administrator of a cloud can refer to a person owner corporation organization or other entity having authoritative power to initialize oversee or otherwise manage the operation of a cloud.

As used herein the system of a cloud can refer to software and hardware as a whole such as for example applications programs servers device drivers storage such as hard drives virtual memory databases random access memory RAM and other memory processors multimedia cards and the like in the cloud. The system can be accessed by users or by software or applications independent from or associated with the system of the cloud in embodiments vendors such as ISVs can supply software resources for use with the system in the cloud. The system can further comprise any communications resources such as ports or channels provided to a virtual machine or other machine or process in the cloud. The system can also support services such as Web based services deployed in the cloud for example security or identity management services and or other resources. As used herein a module or software module can refer to any type of software application program computer code and the like that is part of the system of the cloud. The software modules can be executed by users the system itself an administrator or any other entity.

As used herein an analysis can be any static or dynamic analysis performed on a software module program data or program code that can be examined to determine an advantage benefit efficiency gain and or other effect of a migration. As used herein optimize can be a general term that can refer to the best available option. In other words an optimized configuration need not represent the best possible configuration but instead can mean the preferred configuration of the possible configurations. Further the term optimize can also mean maximize enhance improve or other terms related to a preferred or improved performance level. Still further as used herein a simulation can refer to a projection model analysis assessment breakdown evaluation and other terms that can refer to any type of analysis of data.

In embodiments the entire set of resource servers or other hardware or software resources used to support the cloud along with its instantiated virtual machines is managed by a cloud management system . The cloud management system can comprise a dedicated or centralized server and or other software hardware and network tools that communicate via network such as the Internet or other public or private network with all sets of resource servers to manage the cloud and its operation. To instantiate a new set of virtual machines a user can transmit an instantiation request to the cloud management system for the particular type of virtual machine that the user desires to invoke for its intended application. A user can for instance make a request to instantiate a set of virtual machines configured for email messaging or other applications from the cloud . The request can be received and processed by the cloud management system which identifies the type of virtual machine process or other resource being requested. The cloud management system can then identify the collection of resources necessary to instantiate that machine or resource. In embodiments the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources can for example comprise virtual transaction servers used to support Web storefronts or other transaction sites.

In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify a variety of parameters defining the operation of the set of virtual machines to be invoked. The instantiation request for example can specify a defined period of time for which the instantiated machine or process is needed. The period of time can be for example an hour a day or other increment of time. In embodiments the user s instantiation request can specify the instantiation of a set of virtual machines or processes on a task basis rather than for a predetermined amount of time. For instance a user could request resources until a software update is completed. The user s instantiation request can specify other parameters that define the configuration and operation of the set of virtual machines or other instantiated resources. For example the request can specify an amount of processing power or input output I O throughput the user desires to be available to each instance of the virtual machine or other resource. In embodiments the requesting user can for instance specify a service level agreement SLA acceptable for their purposes. Other parameters and settings can be used. One skilled in the art will realize that the user s request can likewise include combinations of the foregoing exemplary parameters and others.

When the request to instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources has been received and the necessary resources to build that machine or resource have been identified the cloud management system can communicate with one or more of the set of resource servers to locate resources to supply the required components. The cloud management system can select providers from the diverse set of resource servers to assemble the various components needed to build the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. It may be noted that in some embodiments permanent storage such as hard disk arrays may not be included or located within the set of resource servers available to the cloud management system since the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources may be intended to operate on a purely transient or temporary basis. In embodiments other hardware software or other resources not strictly located or hosted in the cloud can be leveraged as needed. For example other software services that are provided outside of the cloud and hosted by third parties can be invoked by in cloud virtual machines. For further example other non cloud hardware and or storage services can be utilized as an extension to the cloud either on an on demand or subscribed or decided basis.

With the resource requirements identified the cloud management system can extract and build the set of virtual machines or other resources on a dynamic or on demand basis. For example one set of resource servers may respond to an instantiation request for a given quantity of processor cycles with an offer to deliver that computational power immediately and guaranteed for the next hour. A further set of resource servers can offer to immediately supply communication bandwidth for example on a guaranteed minimum or best efforts basis. In other embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources can be built on a batch basis or at a particular future time. For example a set of resource servers may respond to a request for instantiation at a programmed time with an offer to deliver the specified quantity of processor cycles within a specific amount of time such as the next 12 hours.

The cloud management system can select groups of servers in the set of resource servers that match or best match the instantiation request for each component needed to build the virtual machine or other resource. The cloud management system can then coordinate the integration of the completed group of servers from the set of resource servers to build and launch the requested set of virtual machines or other resources. The cloud management system can track the combined group of servers selected from the set of resource servers or other distributed resources that are dynamically or temporarily combined to produce and manage the requested virtual machine population or other resources.

In embodiments the cloud management system can generate a resource aggregation table that identifies the various sets of resource servers that will be used to supply the components of the virtual machine or process. The sets of resource servers can be identified by unique identifiers such as for instance Internet protocol IP addresses or other addresses. The cloud management system can register the finalized group of servers in the set of resource servers contributing to an instantiated machine or process.

The cloud management system can then set up and launch the initiation process for the virtual machines processes or other resources to be delivered from the cloud. The cloud management system can for instance transmit an instantiation command or instruction to the registered group of servers in the set of resource servers . The cloud management system can receive a confirmation message back from each participating server in the set of resource servers indicating a status regarding the provisioning of their respective resources. Various sets of resource servers may confirm for example the availability of a dedicated amount of processor cycles amounts of electronic memory communications bandwidth or applications or other software prepared to be served.

As shown for example in the cloud management system can then instantiate one or more than one set of virtual machines or other processes based on the resources supplied by the registered set of resource servers shown in . In embodiments the cloud management system can instantiate a given number for example 10 500 1000 or other numbers of virtual machines to be made available to users on a network such as the Internet or other public or private network. Each virtual machine can be assigned an instantiated machine ID that can be stored in the resource aggregation table or other record or image of the instantiated population. Additionally the cloud management system can store the duration of each virtual machine and the collection of resources utilized by the complete set of instantiated virtual machines .

In embodiments the cloud management system can further store track and manage a user s identity and associated set of rights or entitlements to software hardware and other resources. Each user that populates a set of virtual machines in the cloud can have specific rights and resources assigned and made available to them. The cloud management system can track and configure specific actions that a user can perform such as provision a set of virtual machines with software applications or other resources configure a set of virtual machines to desired specifications submit jobs to the set of virtual machines or other host manage other users of the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources and other privileges or actions. The cloud management system can further generate records of the usage of instantiated virtual machines to permit tracking billing and auditing of the services consumed by the user. In embodiments the cloud management system can for example meter the usage and or duration of the set of instantiated virtual machines to generate subscription billing records for a user that has launched those machines. Other billing or value arrangements are possible.

The cloud management system can configure each virtual machine to be made available to users of the network via a browser interface or other interface or mechanism. Each instantiated virtual machine can communicate with the cloud management system and the underlying registered set of resource servers via a standard Web application programming interface API or via other calls or interfaces. The set of instantiated virtual machines can likewise communicate with each other as well as other sites servers locations and resources available via the Internet or other public or private networks whether within a given cloud or between clouds.

It may be noted that while a browser interface or other front end can be used to view and operate the set of instantiated virtual machines from a client or terminal the processing memory communications storage and other hardware as well as software resources required to be combined to build the virtual machines or other resources are all hosted remotely in the cloud . In embodiments the set of virtual machines or other resources may not depend on or require the user s own on premise hardware or other resources. In embodiments a user can therefore request and instantiate a set of virtual machines or other resources on a purely off premise basis for instance to build and launch a virtual storefront or other application.

Because the cloud management system in one regard specifies builds operates and manages the set of instantiated virtual machines on a logical level the user can request and receive different sets of virtual machines and other resources on a real time or near real time basis without a need to specify or install any particular hardware. The user s set of instantiated machines processes or other resources can be scaled up or down immediately or within a short period of time on an on demand basis if desired. In embodiments the various sets of resource servers that are accessed by the cloud management system to support a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes can change or be substituted over time. The type and operating characteristics of the set of instantiated virtual machines can nevertheless remain constant or almost constant since instances are assembled from abstracted resources that can be selected and maintained from diverse sources based on uniform specifications.

In terms of network management of the set of virtual machines that have been successfully configured and instantiated the cloud management system can perform various network management tasks including security maintenance and metering for billing or subscription purposes. The cloud management system of a given cloud can for example install or terminate applications or appliances on individual machines. The cloud management system can monitor operating virtual machines to detect any virus or other rogue process on individual machines and for instance terminate the infected application or virtual machine. The cloud management system can likewise manage an entire set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources on a collective basis for instance to push or deliver a software upgrade to all active virtual machines. Other management processes are possible.

In embodiments more than one set of virtual machines can be instantiated in a given cloud at the same overlapping or successive times. The cloud management system can in such implementations build launch and manage multiple sets of virtual machines based on the same or different underlying set of resource servers with populations of different instantiated virtual machines such as may be requested by different users. The cloud management system can institute and enforce security protocols in a cloud hosting multiple sets of virtual machines. Each of the individual sets of virtual machines can be hosted in a respective partition or sub cloud of the resources of the main cloud . The cloud management system of a cloud can for example deploy services specific to isolated or defined sub clouds or isolate individual workloads processes within the cloud to a specific sub cloud. The subdivision of the cloud into distinct transient sub clouds or other sub components which have assured security and isolation features can assist in establishing a multiple user or multi tenant cloud arrangement. In a multiple user scenario each of the multiple users can use the cloud platform as a common utility while retaining the assurance that their information is secure from other users of the overall cloud system. In further embodiments sub clouds can nevertheless be configured to share resources if desired.

In embodiments and as also shown in the set of instantiated virtual machines generated in a first cloud can also interact with a set of instantiated virtual machines or processes generated in a second third or further cloud . Further the cloud management system of the first cloud can interface with the cloud management system of the second cloud to coordinate those domains and operate the clouds and or virtual machines or processes on a combined basis. The cloud management system of a given cloud can track and manage individual virtual machines or other resources instantiated in that cloud as well as the set of instantiated virtual machines or other resources in other clouds.

Further it should be appreciated that the module migration tool can be configured to interface with additional existing host clouds or target clouds not shown in figures and associated system resources such as virtual machines of the additional host clouds or target clouds . Further still it should be clear that although depicts the module migration tool in association with the cloud management system of the target cloud in certain embodiments the module migration tool can instead be associated with the host cloud as well as with multiple host clouds .

In embodiments the administrator can be any person owner corporation organization or other entity having authoritative power to initialize oversee or otherwise manage the operation of the target cloud . In embodiments the administrator can manage the delivery or provisioning of software applications or other software hardware or other products or services such as products and services of one or more ISVs not shown in figures to end users accessing the target cloud . In embodiments the end users can access the set of instantiated virtual machines located in the target cloud . It should be appreciated that the administrator can enter into one or more service agreements with vendors or other entities to provide resources to end users in one or multiple clouds and or across multiple products and or product lines. It should further be appreciated that the administrator can oversee multiple target or candidate clouds and can communicate and contact other respective administrators of the multiple target or candidate clouds.

The module migration tool can receive the system analysis data associated with the system of the host cloud . In embodiments the system analysis data can comprise data associated with software modules of the system . For example the system analysis data can detail the software modules that execute on or are otherwise supported by the system . In embodiments the system analysis data can detail an analysis of program code associated with the software modules. For example the system analysis data can comprise input output I O data memory usage data storage data central processing unit CPU consumption data and other processing data redundancy data network transmission data and any other data associated with an execution or support of software modules or other resources of the system .

In embodiments the module migration tool can statically or dynamically simulate model or otherwise analyze the system analysis data associated with the system to determine information related to the software modules. For example the module migration tool can determine from the system analysis data how much memory a certain module users over a certain time period. For further example the module migration tool can determine from the system analysis data the daily average amount of data that another module transfers. It should be appreciated that the module migration tool can determine any other metrics associated with the software modules from the system analysis data . In embodiments the module migration tool can perform a static analysis on a header file a manifest file a metadata file or the like that can specify resources required by a service an application and or a virtual machine.

In embodiments the module migration tool can receive determine or detect data relating to the target cloud and other target clouds. The module migration tool can simulate model or otherwise analyze the data relating to the target cloud and other target clouds to determine the ability of the target cloud and other target clouds to initialize execute or otherwise support any of the software modules specified in the system analysis data . For example the module migration tool can detect that the target cloud has the ability to initialize execute or otherwise support a database interface module of the system . For further example the module migration tool can detect that the target cloud has the ability to initialize execute or otherwise support a file transfer protocol ftp module of the system .

Still further in embodiments the module migration tool can perform any sort of benefit simulation model or analysis to determine which ones of the software modules would benefit from a migration to the target cloud and other target clouds. For example the module migration tool can determine that an email module of the system would benefit from a migration to a target cloud that can offer more efficient storage. For further example the module migration tool can determine that a word processing module would benefit from a migration to a target cloud that can offer more processing power. For further example the module migration tool can determine that an instant messaging module would benefit from a migration to a target cloud that can offer a better data transfer rate. It should be envisioned that the module migration tool can determine any sort of benefit to migrating any module of the system to any target cloud.

As an output the benefit analysis can yield a determination as to whether it is beneficial for any reason to migrate one or more of the software modules of the system to the target cloud and or other target clouds. For example the benefit analysis can indicate that migrating each of the software modules of the system into separate target clouds is beneficial for cost purposes. For further example the benefit analysis can indicate that migrating some of the software modules of the system into separate target clouds is beneficial for resource consumption purposes.

In embodiments the dependency module can migrate any of the software modules of the system into the target cloud and any other target clouds based on the benefit analysis. In embodiments an agreement such as an SLA can be entered into among one or more respective cloud providers one or more vendors and or one or more end users. It should be appreciated that the software modules can be deployed on any resources of any cloud in any combination.

In embodiments the module migration tool can notify the administrator of the benefits of migrating the software modules to the target cloud and or other target clouds. In embodiments the administrator can be notified of any of the results of the analyses performed by module migration tool in any way and via any data communication. Further in embodiments the module migration tool can generate or provide a migration recommendation or offer to an administrator owner or other user associated with the host cloud or other clouds. Further in embodiments the offer can be directed to multiple administrators or entities associated with multiple clouds having the capability to support the software modules. For example if resources in exemplary target clouds A and B can support software modules indicated in the system analysis data and already deployed on a host cloud C then one or more administrators of target clouds A and B can be contacted in an effort to migrate the software modules to target clouds A and B. It should be appreciated that the administrator or other entity can contact an administrator or a user associated with any existing clouds in any way with any type of information or offer.

In embodiments each of the target clouds and can have the ability or capacity to support one or more software modules. In some embodiments the module migration tool can determine from the system analysis data the capacities of target systems A B and C and of target clouds A B and C and to support any of the software modules MOD MOD and MOD . In other embodiments the module migration tool can detect data associated with the target systems A B and C and of target clouds A B and C and to determine resource metrics associated with the respective systems. For example as shown in target system A of target cloud A has the ability to support MOD target system B of target cloud B has the ability to support MOD and MOD and target system C of target cloud C has the ability to support MOD .

The module migration tool can determine which of the software modules MOD MOD and MOD can benefit from a migration to any of the target clouds A B and C and . The benefits can be associated with any system resource metrics and can be determined from the system analysis data and or the data associated with the target systems A B and C and . For example as shown in even though both target system A and target system B have the ability to support MOD the module migration tool can determine that MOD would benefit more if it was supported by target system A rather than target system B . For example if operation of MOD leads to a high CPU consumption and target system A has better processing power than does target system B then MOD can benefit more it migrated to target system A .

The module migration tool can migrate the software modules MOD MOD and MOD into the target clouds that are most optimized for supporting the software modules or into the target clouds that most benefit the support of software modules MOD MOD and MOD . For example as shown in target system B and target system C are most optimized for supporting MOD and MOD respectfully. Further assuming that target system A is better optimized for supporting MOD than is target system B then module migration tool can also migrate MOD into target system A . It should be appreciated that the module migration tool or other logic can employ any calculations simulations or models to examine capacity issues benefits of and optimizations in between or among any of the target clouds and .

Processor can also communicate with computer readable storage medium and the module migration tool to execute control logic identify usage histories for producing optimized cloud utilization in the cloud as described herein and control the operation of virtual machines and other resources in cloud . Other configurations of cloud management system associated network connections and other hardware and software resources are possible.

In data related to resources in a set of target clouds can be detected. In embodiments the set of target clouds can be any existing clouds detected over any network in any way. In the system can determine whether the set of target clouds is capable of supporting the set of software modules based on the detected data. In embodiments the system can determine whether the set of target clouds has the necessary resources to execute facilitate operate or otherwise support the set of software modules.

In the benefits of migrating at least some of the set of software modules into at least some of the set of target clouds can be determined. In embodiments the benefits can relate to any metric such as for example cost effectiveness resource consumption reduction ease of use and other benefits. In further embodiments the benefits can be based on at least two of the set of software modules migrating to a single target cloud or the set of software modules migrating to the set of target clouds on a one to one basis.

In a migration recommendation can be provided to an administrator or entity associated with the system. In embodiments the migration recommendation can be provided to any administrator or entity associated with the host cloud or the set of target clouds. In at least some of the software modules of the set of software modules can be migrated into at least some of the set of target clouds based on the benefits. In embodiments all of the software modules can be migrated into the set of target clouds regardless of the benefits of migration or only the software modules for which a migration would be beneficial can be migrated into the set of target clouds. In processing can end.

The foregoing description is illustrative and variations in configuration and implementation may occur to persons skilled in the art. For example while embodiments have been described which operate using one module migration tool and associated cloud management system in embodiments one or more of module migration tool and associated cloud management system and or other servers data stores and or other logic or resources can be used. Other resources described as singular or integrated can in embodiments be plural or distributed and resources described as multiple or distributed can in embodiments be combined. The scope of the present teachings is accordingly intended to be limited only by the following claims.

