---

title: Systems and methods for collaboratively annotating electronic documents
abstract: Systems and methods for sharing annotations associated with an electronic document. The annotations are created by one or more annotation authors and are shared with one or more other users. A method includes determining frequently annotated portions of the electronic document and providing indicators within the electronic document of the frequently annotated portions. In one embodiment, frequently used words within the annotations are also indicated within the text of the electronic document. In addition, or in another embodiment, the annotations can be searched based on a user's location within the electronic document.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08635520&OS=08635520&RS=08635520
owner: Fourteen40, Inc.
number: 08635520
owner_city: River Grove
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100625
---
This application is a divisional of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 469 785 filed Sep. 1 2006 which claims the benefit under 35 U.S.C. 119 e of U.S. Provisional Application No. 60 713 812 filed Sep. 2 2005 both of which are hereby incorporated herein by reference.

The present disclosure relates to annotating electronic documents and more particularly to searching and evaluating shared annotations associated with selected portions of an electronic document.

The embodiments of the disclosure will be best understood by reference to the drawings wherein like parts are designated by like numerals throughout. It will be readily understood that the components of the present invention as generally described and illustrated in the figures herein could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations. Thus the following more detailed description of the embodiments of the apparatus system and method of the disclosure is not intended to limit the scope of the disclosure as claimed but is merely representative of possible embodiments of the disclosure. In addition the steps of a method do not necessarily need to be executed in any specific order or even sequentially nor need the steps be executed only once unless otherwise specified.

In some cases well known features structures or operations are not shown or described in detail. Furthermore the described features structures or operations may be combined in any suitable manner in one or more embodiments. It will also be readily understood that the components of the embodiments as generally described and illustrated in the figures herein could be arranged and designed in a wide variety of different configurations.

Several aspects of the embodiments described will be illustrated as software modules or components. As used herein a software module or component may include any type of computer instruction or computer executable code located within a memory device and or transmitted as electronic signals over a system bus or wired or wireless network. A software module may for instance comprise one or more physical or logical blocks of computer instructions which may be organized as a routine program object component data structure etc. that performs one or more tasks or implements particular abstract data types.

In certain embodiments a particular software module may comprise disparate instructions stored in different locations of a memory device which together implement the described functionality of the module. Indeed a module may comprise a single instruction or many instructions and may be distributed over several different code segments among different programs and across several memory devices. Some embodiments may be practiced in a distributed computing environment where tasks are performed by a remote processing device linked through a communications network. In a distributed computing environment software modules may be located in local and or remote memory storage devices. In addition data being tied or rendered together in a database record may be resident in the same memory device or across several memory devices and may be linked together in fields of a record in a database across a network.

As discussed in detail below the system allows one or more of the users associated with the user systems to be an author of an annotation associated with content in an electronic document. An author can create text drawings and or other markings as part of an annotation and associate the annotation with a selected portion of text or other content in the electronic document. The author of the annotation can then classify the annotation and distribute the annotation to the other users. The other users can then display the annotation in their respective copies of the electronic document.

The users can also evaluate the annotation and or the author. The evaluations can be shared among the user systems so as to assist the users in deciding the value or usefulness of the annotation. In one embodiment an annotation ranking is based on the number of other users that adopt the annotation by displaying it in their own copy of the electronic document and or sharing the annotation with others. However some users may never bother to adopt annotations that they find useful because adoption adds another step and is not always required in order to use the annotations. Thus in some embodiments the users are prompted with a message similar to Was this note useful to you In one embodiment the users may rank only others annotations not annotations that they authored themselves.

In one embodiment the author defines permissions for the annotation that allow a subset of the user systems to access the annotation. For example a professor may grant access to students currently registered for a particular course. As other examples members of a business organization study group or book club can grant access to other members of their group.

Once a collection of annotations is established from a group of contributing authors the users may subscribe to desired annotation feeds and or search for annotations relevant to a selected portion of an electronic document e.g. chapter section sub section paragraph word etc. . The search may be based on key words permission levels a particular author authors in a user s group class business study group book club etc. an author ranking based on other users evaluations of the author an annotation ranking based on other users evaluations of relevant annotations annotation categories or other desired annotation characteristics.

In one embodiment the system indicates to the users can view which portions of the electronic document are frequently annotated by other users. In addition or in other embodiments the users can view which words in the electronic document are frequently highlighted and or used in annotations by other users. Thus the users can quickly focus on key words or portions of the electronic documents that other users have focused on.

In one embodiment the user systems exchange annotations and or electronic documents through a network . The network may include for example the Internet or World Wide Web an intranet such as a local area network LAN or a wide area network WAN a public switched telephone network PSTN a cable television network CATV or any other network of communicating computerized devices. However as indicated by the dashed lines in the user systems can annotate electronic documents classify annotations evaluate annotations and perform other operations described herein without being in communication with the network or by only occasionally communicating through the network .

In addition to the user systems distributing annotations and or electronic documents directly to one another through the network or in other embodiments the system includes a management module that stores and distributes user authored annotations and corresponding electronic documents. The management module includes a server a content database and an annotation database . An artisan will recognize from the disclosure herein that the server the content database and the annotation database can be implemented on one or more computers. These computers may be single processor or multiprocessor machines and may include memory having software modules or coded instructions for performing the processes described herein.

The content database comprises electronic documents that the users can purchase license or otherwise download through the server . The electronic documents may be provided for example by book publishers professors or teachers schools businesses groups or individuals. Thus the electronic documents may be provided to the content database by a third party e.g. a publisher or by one or more of the user systems . In one embodiment the electronic documents include searchable text. However the content database may also include graphics pictures and or non searchable text e.g. a non searchable PDF file .

After downloading or otherwise obtaining a copy of an electronic document stored in the content database a user can add annotations to the electronic document. If desired the user can then upload the annotation to the annotation database . One or more of the other user systems that have access rights can then download the annotation for use with their own copy of the electronic document.

In one embodiment contributing annotation authors may elect to give their annotations away for free or provide their annotations for compensation in an electronic annotations marketplace. For example an author may grant subscribing users access to all or a portion of the author s current and or future annotations in exchange for fixed fee. In one embodiment an author may grant subscribing users access to annotations that cover only a portion of the text for a fee e.g. a chapter by chapter fee . In another embodiment an author may choose to grant users access to all or a portion of the author s annotations for a subscription fee.

To create an annotation a user highlights or marks a portion of the electronic document to be associated with the annotation. As shown in for example the user has marked a first highlighted portion and a second highlighted portion of text associated with respective annotations. Upon highlighting the text note icons appear in the margins of the electronic documents next to the first highlighted portion and the second highlighted portion respectively.

The user selects the note icons to create edit or view annotations associated with the selected note icon . In one embodiment selecting one of the note icons displays a note window such as the note window shown in . As shown in the user can type in the note window e.g. by selecting a Tt button or draw in the note window e.g. by selecting a Draw button . Selecting the Draw button allows the user to attach or sketch an electronic image on a virtual canvas.

The note window may include annotations created by more than one user. For example as shown in a first user named Alan created a first annotation and a second user named Bob created a second annotation . In this example Bob is a current user and has marked the corresponding portion of his copy of the electronic document using a style labeled as important as discussed below. After viewing or editing the annotation Bob can save the contents of the note window and return to the user interface by selecting a return button .

Returning to a user can highlight portions of the electronic document without adding additional annotations e.g. text or drawings . For example the user may highlight the first highlighted portion causing the note icon to appear. However if the user ignores the note icon the note icon will disappear after a predetermined amount of time or after the user performs another action e.g. highlighting the second highlighted portion leaving just the highlight on the first highlighted portion .

In one embodiment if the user selects e.g. right clicks a previously highlighted portion that does not have an associated annotation a contextual menu not shown may appear that includes a make note command that may be selected to display a note icon such as note icons in the margin next to the selected highlighted portion. As discussed above the note icon can then be used to create an annotation corresponding to the highlighted portion. In addition or in other embodiments the user may use a text tool and menu selections to create an annotation without highlighting the associated text in the passage. In such embodiments the annotation s style as discussed below can be changed using a right click contextual menu or other menu item.

In one embodiment the user interface includes a pen icon for displaying options for the creation and management of highlighting or pen styles. A pen style is a color and or descriptive name used to categorize text highlights and annotations. The user can select the pen icon to display a style menu such as the style menu shown in . As shown in the user may change a currently selected pen style that will be used on newly created text highlights and annotations. Styles may be created to distinguish between different types of annotations such as important issue fact rationale holding follow up ask or other pre defined or user created labels to help the users distinguish between different types of annotations. A pen icon in the style menu represents a currently selected style e.g. the important style in this example . Checkboxes in control the visibility of each pen style within the text of the electronic document .

The user can use the style menu to toggle the display of different pen styles within the text open dialog windows to add duplicate edit delete pen styles choose between multiple highlight styles and or open a dialog to toggle the display of annotations from other users and or groups. For example the user can select a remove highlight link to hide highlighting for selected text a manage pens link to open a dialog interface where the user can add copy edit delete pen styles and or select pen style colors e.g. from a color palette and a displayed users link to open a dialog interface where the user can select which users annotations to display.

Returning to the note icons indicate when an annotation is available. In one embodiment a plus sign next to the note icon indicates that the associated annotation is collapsed and can be viewed by selecting the note icon . A minus sign is displayed next to the note icon to indicate that the associated annotation is already expanded e.g. visible and can be collapsed by selecting the note icon . Once expanded the body of text may slide apart after the highlighted passage such that the content of the annotation appears inline inside a box with a background colored to match the associated text highlight.

In the embodiment shown in the margins of the annotation s text are indented slightly from both sides from the rest of the electronic document s text. The background box is as wide as the electronic document s text margins with the annotation s text inset from box edges. This allows the user to view an annotation without obscuring any text. The user may choose for example to leave the annotation or all annotations open inline in the text of the original electronic document .

In one embodiment annotation display control is available from a right click contextual menu on either an open annotation or on the note icons that allows the user for example to expand and or collapse all annotations expand and or collapse a selected annotation show only annotations with selected styles via a cascading menu with checked and unchecked styles and or show only annotations from selected other users groups via a cascading menu with checked and unchecked names .

As shown in a footnote of the original electronic document can be displayed in an inline fashion similar to the annotation . However in certain embodiments the footnote is displayed using a different background color than that of the annotation to provide visual differentiation between the footnote and the annotation e.g. the footnotes are part of the original text and cannot be directly edited or deleted . This considerably simplifies the challenge of placing the footnotes at the bottom of the virtual page. It is not necessary in some embodiments for footnotes to have an icon since a superscript numeral see superscript numerals in already exists and can be used to toggle the display of the footnotes. In one embodiment footnotes have a right click command to expand collapse all or some of the footnotes.

At any point in the annotation creation process an annotation author may access the management module shown in to select other users or groups that can access the author s annotations and to define the level of access that each of the users or groups receive.

For example the management module allows the annotation author to look up student users possibly limited by school or class and to designate groups of students who form a virtual study group. The selected users receive invitations to join the study group and may be required to opt in by allowing access to their annotations before they can view the annotations of other group members. Such a group becomes must share to see meaning nobody gets to be a lurker and a user can only get others annotations by sharing their own annotations.

Annotations may be shared according to one embodiment in a one way direction. For example a professor may create a study group and invite all of the professor s students to participate in the group. Each participating student in the group has access to the annotations created by the professor. In one exemplary embodiment the students must explicitly opt in before their annotations are shared with anyone. An exception is the case of a reply whereby the originating student is sent the reply regardless of whether he has read access to the replying student s annotations. For example a student could reply to a professor s annotation although the professor would not normally see the student s day to day notes.

At any point in time a user system may initiate a synchronization process with the management module using networking protocols to upload the user s most recent set of shared annotations for other users to access. The synchronization process also downloads annotations from one or more of the other user systems that have been made available to the user. Artisans will recognize from the disclosure herein that direct connections between the user systems and the management module may be made using wireless or wired networking technology.

A user may also synchronize the user s computer e.g. laptop computer desktop computer handheld device etc. with desktop software running on the user s computer. The user s annotations stored on the user s computer are merged with the annotations on the desktop software. In this way the user s annotations are backed up in multiple redundant places. The desktop software can make scheduled connections to the server . A menu item allows the user to connect to the server on demand if a network connection is available . The user may also specify a preference that allows the user to schedule regular connections for updates. Downloaded annotations are queued up for transfer to the user s computer during the next desktop to device synchronization.

Synchronized annotation information is displayed for each displayed book . For example a count of replies new annotations and total annotations is displayed next to the book . An artisan will recognize from the disclosure herein that other information can also be displayed such as a count of updated edited annotations corresponding to the book . Thus the user can use the user interface when selecting which of the electronic books or other electronic documents to buy or license from the management module . The user can also use the user interface to know when new or edited annotations are available.

Selecting the annotation in the left side of the user interface causes the full text of the electronic document corresponding to the selected annotation to be displayed in the right side of the user display . Thus the user can quickly navigate through annotations and view corresponding text for desired annotations.

At any time the user may toggle the visibility of annotations from other users using for example a right click contextual menu on an annotation note icon or through a view menu not shown . In one embodiment there is also a dedicated menu to control the different aspects of displaying the annotations and other aspects of the electronic document .

In one embodiment an icon in the margin of the electronic document signifies that an annotation is available from another user. As shown in the icon has a different appearance than an icon corresponding to a user s own annotations. In another embodiment to differentiate between a user s own annotations and other users annotations an icon corresponding to a user s own annotations may be a first color and an icon corresponding to an annotation created by another user may be a second color. As another example an annotation created by multiple users may be indicated by a stacked notes icon not shown to represent multiple annotations associated with the same text. Associated user names may be displayed in a tooltip fashion on rollover e.g. by moving the tip a pointer tool over the stacked notes icon . Once the stacked notes icon is expanded the body text slides apart after the highlighted passage the annotation content appears inline inside a box with a colored background and the user name of the originating annotation author appears next to the text. The margins of the annotation text are indented slightly from both sides from the rest of the book text. See for example the annotation .

In one embodiment the user interface displays the chapter section and page number s of each piece of selected content. The user interface also displays relevant content including two sentences before an annotation and two sentences after an annotation. In one embodiment the amount of included content before and after the annotation is a customizable property. The user interface also displays the annotations.

The user interface allows the user to filter and sort annotations included in the annotation summary. Such filtering and sorting may be based on annotation characteristics such as an annotation s author an annotation s category and an annotation s appearance in the text of an electronic document e.g. filter just those annotations that appear within several ranges of pages .

The user may select an annotation and right click or equivalent to expose a contextual menu not shown for the annotation. In one embodiment the options under the contextual menu include for example edit copy reply adopt ignore show all hide all show hide by category show hide by user group and delete. Each of these options are briefly discussed below.

The edit option allows the user to modify previously entered content. Alternatively the user may simply click on an annotation to set focus on the selected annotation and start editing. According to one embodiment the users can edit only their own annotations. The copy option copies the content of the annotation to a system clipboard for use as another identical annotation within the application or for export to another program such as a word processing program.

The reply option allows the user to reply to another annotation regardless of whether the annotation was posed as a question. In one embodiment the reply includes the content from the originating annotation similar to an email without identifying the originating author. The reply annotation can be sent to just the original author or to everyone in the original annotation distribution. In addition or in another embodiment a small reply icon shown in is available in the annotations to allow quick responses.

For example the annotation shows an annotation made by user Alan stating that Justice Ellsworth authored the majority opinion in Marbury v. Madison. Alan s annotation is shared with other users including Bob and Callie In response Bob replies to Alan s annotation and states Justice Marshall actually offered the majority opinion in Marbury v Madison. Bob s annotation is shared back to Alan as well as another user who for example was not included on the original thread but understands the annotation because the original content was included. After synchronizing his device Alan sees that he has received a reply to one of his annotations. Only after Alan takes some form of corrective action and synchronizes his device will Callie receive the corrected content since she is not a subscriber to Bob s reply.

The adopt option allows a first user to adopt an annotation authored by a second user such that the second user s annotation is imported into the first user s own personal set of annotations and shared as if the first user authored the annotation. In one embodiment the server tracks an annotation s pedigree to avoid the possibility of an infinite loop e.g. Bob and Neal are sharing annotations Neal adopts Bob s annotation that annotation is now shared back to Bob who doesn t really need it .

The ignore option allows a user to permanently hide annotations selected while reviewing annotations authored by other users. The show all option expands all annotations from users groups that are toggled to display. The hide all option collapses all annotations. The show hide by category option allows a user to toggle the display of annotations based on the annotations category style . The show hide by user group option allows a user to toggle the display of shared annotations based on their ownership or the owner s group membership. The delete option allows a user to remove an annotation totally. In one embodiment a deletion is indicated in others bookshelves as an updated annotation. If there is a reply thread attached to the annotation the annotation s content is replaced with a notation Note Deleted by Owner. The subset of the above commands that refer to a single selected annotation are available according to one embodiment in the annotation as a note toolbar which is available active only on the selected annotation .

In one embodiment when a user comes across content in an electronic document that they may not understand the user has the option of highlighting the relevant content and selecting a query for notes option. When the user is connected to the network an immediate request may be sent to the server for annotations associated with the selected content. When the user is not connected to the network the user is warned that no connection is available and that the query will be queued via an alert dialog with a cancel and continue button set . If the user chooses to continue with the query a reference to the selected content is placed in a dedicated queue until the next synchronization. During the next synchronization process that queue of requests is broadcast to server .

In response to the request the server searches the annotation database for annotations created by other users that are associated with the selected content and returns any matching annotations to the use. In one embodiment only the highest ranked annotations as judged by the number of user adoptions are communicated back to the initiating user system . The user may then review the annotations to gain a better understanding of the content.

Over time the annotation database shown in amasses a considerable number of annotations that describe the position of annotated text within electronic documents. The system provides a variety of methods for scoring and filtering annotations so that the users can find and download the annotations that best fit their needs.

In one embodiment the annotation database is processed to determine which portions of selected electronic documents are the most frequently annotated by the users in various groups and or among all of the users. A ranked list of the most frequently annotated content by each user group to which the user belongs for example is transmitted during each synchronization process. These lists can be displayed as highlighted text within the content itself. For example a Stanford Law School student belonging to a Stanford Law Class of 2008 study group may receive a ranked list of the most frequently annotated content by his peers as grouped by class school nationwide set of users other user groups combinations of the foregoing and the like.

The users can filter the annotations stored in the annotation database so that they can download and or display a desired set of annotations. For example a student may want to download all annotations associated with a particular law school textbook. Depending on the number of available annotations for the textbook the student may reduce the number of downloaded and or displayed annotations by filtering for those annotations authored by other students who used the textbook for a particular professor s class or who are currently attending or attended a particular law school.

In one embodiment the annotation entries stored in the annotation database include categorization and filtering information. For example is an annotation entry data structure according to one embodiment. The annotation entry data structure includes an author identifier ID an annotation an annotation category an annotation ranking a permissions field and a content association field .

The author ID uniquely identifies the author of the annotation . In one embodiment the author ID includes a pointer to additional author information. For example is an author information data structure according to one embodiment. The author information data structure may be stored in the annotation database or in another database and includes information regarding a user who authored one or more annotations stored in the annotation database . The author information data structure includes the author s status the author s educational affiliations the author s professional affiliations and the author s ranking . The other users can access such author information to assist them in deciding what value or weight to give to annotations created by a particular author.

The author s status indicates a position or title of the author. For example the author s status may indicate that the author is a professor a teacher a student a teacher s aide a project manager a book or article author a club organizer or the like. The author s educational affiliations indicate for example a school or university where the author attends lectures researches and or is otherwise associated. The author s professional affiliations indicate for example the author s employer and or professional organizations that the author represents or in which the author participates. As discussed below the author s ranking provides an indication of how the author has been evaluated by the other users with regard to one or more of the author s annotations stored in the annotation database . Thus the author information data structure allows the users to search for annotations created by particular authors authors having a particular status authors with particular affiliations and or authors having achieved a particular ranking.

Returning to the annotation includes the text and or graphics provided by the author identified in the author ID . The annotation category includes filter parameters that characterize the annotation . In one embodiment the author identified in the author ID defines the annotation category using pre defined search terms or categories. For example referring to the author may categorize the annotation as important an issue in a court opinion a fact in the court opinion a rationale in the court opinion a holding in the court opinion an annotation requiring follow up or an annotation that includes a question. Thus for example a law student may quickly download annotations related to the issue and holding of a selected court opinion. Other exemplary annotation filter parameters or categories are discussed below with respect to .

When selecting an annotation or set of annotations to download from the annotation database the other users may select one or more of the pre defined search terms or categories used to filter the annotations in the annotation database . Thus the other users can specify multiple annotation sources also referred to herein annotation populations and display them concurrently with a selected electronic document.

For example are general representations of computer user interfaces for selecting source annotation populations according to one embodiment. The author may use the user interfaces for example when creating the annotation and or the other users may use the interfaces when searching for one or more annotations created by a particular annotation population.

The user interface allows the users to select an annotation population by selecting a pre determined annotation category. The annotation categories may include for example an educational environment a professional environment or other environments. Depending on the user s category selection using the user interface the user is allowed to make further selections using one or more of the user interfaces .

If for example the user selects the educational environment from the user interface the user can then select a sub category from the user interface . As shown in the sub categories for the educational environment may include for example school graduating class teacher professor content e.g. book handout etc. degree program status e.g. student professor teaching aide etc. and or author rating. The user may select school for example to be presented with a list of schools affiliated with authors contributing to the annotation database . The user may further select a particular textbook for example having annotations available that are associated with the selected school. The user may further select author rating for example to be presented with annotation author rankings for the displayed textbooks associated with the selected school.

If the user selects the professional environment from the user interface the user can then select a sub category from the user interface . As shown in the sub categories for the professional environment include for example company tenure manager content department status expertise and author rating. If the user selects other from the user interface the user can then select a sub category from the user interface . As shown in the sub categories for other include for example group e.g. book club church group etc. content and author rating.

In one embodiment the users can also define custom search terms to search for annotations. The custom search terms may be used with or without the pre defined categories and sub categories. As discussed above in one embodiment the users can highlight a portion of an electronic document to be used as a search parameter. For example the location of the highlighted portion may be used to search for annotations associated with the highlighted portion. Thus the users can define the exact set of annotations to search for such that they download annotations from the annotation database that most closely match the search parameters text position and permissions granted by the annotation author.

Returning to the annotation ranking includes an indication of how the annotation has been evaluated by the other users. Annotation rankings will be discussed in further detail below with respect to . The permissions field defines which of the users are authorized to access the annotation . In one embodiment the author identified in the author ID sets the permissions field . The permissions field may be based on a list of subscribers who have paid to receive the author s annotations or a portion of the author s annotations. In addition or in another embodiment the permissions field may be based on one or more groups in which the author is participating. The users are allowed to search and or download only those annotations for which they have been granted permission.

The content association field includes data that uniquely identifies a portion of the electronic document that the author has associated with the annotation . Thus the users can search for annotations associated with a particular portion of a selected electronic document. The content association field includes a content identification ID field an annotation start field and an annotation offset field . The content ID field uniquely identifies an electronic document stored in the content database . As discussed above the electronic document may include for example an electronic book textbook article academic paper business document government document handout presentation note book drawing picture a combination of the foregoing or any other document that can be stored on a computer readable medium and displayed on a computer screen or other display device.

The annotation start field identifies a unique location within the associated electronic document where the annotation begins. The annotation start field may specify for example a chapter section sub section paragraph page number or line number. In addition or in other embodiments the annotation start field specifies a number of characters from the start of the electronic document as the location where the annotation begins. The annotation offset field specifies the number of characters from the start of the annotation to the end of the annotation . In another embodiment an end point is specified rather than an offset from the start location. In one embodiment the content association field is automatically generated as an annotation address when the author highlights a portion of the text and creates the annotation .

In one embodiment the server is configured to determine frequently annotated portions of the electronic documents in the content database . The server analyzes a selected source annotation population of a selected electronic document to rank which passages received a comparatively high level of user attention as measured by the degree to which annotation authors highlighted and annotated the associated text. Thus a student for example may quickly determine which portions of an electronic document are frequently considered important by other students.

Further the student can filter the annotations so as to show annotations for a selected number of most frequently annotated portions of the electronic document. For example the student may decide to view annotations for only the top ten most frequently annotated passages in a selected chapter. As another example the student may decide to view annotations for only frequently annotated passages that include a certain number of words or that include a frequently used word.

As shown in notes from Author A are associated with portions of all four paragraphs. Notes from Author B are associated with portions of Paragraph 1 Paragraph 3 and Paragraph 4. Notes from Author C are associated with portions of Paragraph 1 and Paragraph 3. Finally notes from Author D are associated with portions of Paragraph 1.

In this example a user has selected a first portion corresponding to Paragraph 1 and a second portion corresponding to Paragraph 3 for which the user desires to receive annotation frequency rankings. In other embodiments the user may specify a book chapter page or paragraph for which the user desires to find frequently annotated passages. In such an embodiment the server determines that the portions and or the Paragraphs 1 and 3 have been frequently annotated and notifies the user.

The server analyzes the annotations provided by the four authors the first portion and the second portion to determine the frequency with which the four authors annotated the first portion and the second portion . Based on the frequency the server assigns a rank or value to the first portion and the second portion . The value may also be based on factors such as a degree to which the frequently annotated portions have been annotated the size of the annotations and or the number of frequently used words in the annotations.

In this example the first portion was annotated by each of the four authors and the server has assigned the first portion a rank of 1. Thus a rank of 1 indicates that all or a large percentage of authors believe that the first passage includes important or relevant information. Based on the high ranking the user may decide to download and display one or more annotations corresponding to the first portion and or carefully read the first portion .

The second portion was annotated by two of the four authors and the server has assigned the second portion a rank of 2 to indicate that a smaller percentage of contributing annotation authors believe that the second portion includes important or relevant information. An artisan will recognize from the disclosure herein that other ranking systems can also be used. In addition or in other embodiments the server may indicate the percentage of contributing users that annotated the first portion and the second portion .

In one embodiment the server periodically regenerates the rankings and or regenerates the rankings when additional annotations associated with the textbook are added to the annotation database . The server then provides the rankings to the user systems through the network . The server may provide the rankings for example to all of the users that have downloaded the textbook. Alternatively the server may provide the rankings only to those users that are included within the annotation population e.g. students in the class of 2010 that are attending New Haven Law School . In one embodiment rankings for the paragraphs that include the selected portions are also provided. For example the server has ranked Paragraph 1 with a ranking of 1 and Paragraph 2 with a ranking of 2. 

In one embodiment the users select the frequency indicators to view the population source e.g. selecting the down arrow next to the word Source displays the annotation population used to create the frequency ranking .

The frequency indicators point to respective portions of the electronic document that have been frequently annotated. For example the frequency indicators point to respective brackets used to indicate paragraphs or portions of paragraphs that have been frequently annotated. As other examples the frequency indicator points to a frequently annotated section heading e.g. II. The First Bank of the United States and the frequency indicator points to a highlighted portion of text that has been frequently annotated. In one embodiment each user may decide which ranking levels to display. For example a user may decide to display only those frequency indicators having a ranking of 1 or 2.

In one embodiment the server is configured to determine words used frequently in annotations stored in the annotation database . For example is a block diagram of a sub system for creating a frequently used word list according to one embodiment. The sub system includes an indexing module configured to index the annotations in the annotation database to create an annotation word index arranged by word frequency.

The sub system also includes a filter configured to receive the annotation word index from the index module and to filter the annotation word index against a frequently used general words database . The filter uses the frequently used general word database to filter out common words such as and the a it and other commonly used words. The output of the filter is the frequently used words list arranged by order of most frequently used words. The frequently used words list may be calculated on several different levels including for example paragraph subsection section chapter part unit and book.

In one embodiment the frequently used general words database is replaced with a database of words that are specific to a particular subject. For example the database may consist of entries found in a legal dictionary or a medical dictionary. In such an embodiment the filter produces an ordered list of frequently used legal terms found in the annotation database . An artisan will recognize from the disclosure herein that other subject specific dictionaries could also be used including for example an engineering dictionary or a medical dictionary.

The server downloads the frequently used words list to the user systems via the network . The users can toggle the display of the frequently used words within a box or similar dialog which appears in a user interface. Matches to the most frequently used words within a passage are stylistically highlighted in the text to communicate to the user that the other users have frequently noted that word within their own annotations. The users can specify how many of the most frequently used to stylistically highlight. For example a user may choose to display only the top two most commonly used words in a particular paragraph.

The user interface in for example displays the frequently used words list . The list is in order of most frequently used words and the user can select which words in the list to be stylistically highlighted in the text of the electronic document. In this example the words national bank Madison convention and authority are stylistically highlighted e.g. circled within the text of the electronic document to indicate that these words are frequently used in other users annotations.

The user interface also includes a control to specify the scope e.g. chapter section paragraph etc. of the frequently used words list . If a user selects chapter for example the server will highlight frequently used words found in annotations associated with a selected chapter. In one embodiment the server anticipates the correct scope based on the user s location within the content of the electronic document. The user interface also includes a control that allows users to create an ignore list of words that will not show up in the current or future frequently used words lists . Thus for example a medical student can ignore uses of heart and cardiac while these words will be included for a ninth grade biology student.

The user interface also includes a control that allows a user to specify a ranking for the selected annotation or author. As shown in the control allows the user to rank the selected annotation or author on a scale of 0 10 with 0 being the lowest ranking and 10 being the highest ranking. However an artisan will recognize from the disclosure herein that many different ranking systems could be used. For example the control in other embodiments may allow the user to specify thumbs up thumbs down or no opinion. As another example the control may allow the user to specify whether the user is Not likely to recommend the author likely to recommend the author very likely to recommend the author or no opinion. 

In one embodiment the user interface also includes a field that allows the user to enter feedback comments. The feedback comments allow the user to provide additional information as to why the user liked or disliked the selected annotation and or author. Upon completing the evaluation the user may select a submit button to communicate the evaluation to the server where it is available for searching sorting and indexing purposes.

Each recipient of an annotation authored by another user may provide a quantitative score and or qualitative feedback regarding the annotations. Factors used in providing the author evaluations may include for example relevance clarity insightfulness combinations of the foregoing and the like.

Annotation ratings may be used for example to determine an absolute scale of which annotation is considered by the other users to be the best annotation. For example a student may choose to see the number one rated annotation for each paragraph in the book from the student s defined annotation population. As another example a professional may choose to see all annotations rated greater than 4.5 e.g. on average or where more than two people have given a thumbs up. 

Annotation evaluations can be used for determining an author evaluation. The combined use of several algorithms is recommended for inputs into an overall author evaluation. For example an author evaluation may be determined from an average annotation rating across all the annotations that the author has created. As another example an author evaluation may be determined based on counting the number of annotations from the author that are rated within the top decile or quartile half etc. of user annotations.

Author ratings are made available to other users looking to embed the best annotations within their copies of the electronic documents. The ratings system provides guidance to users as to which authors the global community of users has judged best or has judged as historically providing more valuable annotations than other authors. The users can use the population parameters described in the categorization section discussed above to filter for a subset of authors that fit their interests. These search results may include the evaluation scores that describe an author and the author s annotations. The users may also view a detailed profile of the author which may include for example the evaluation scores and any qualitative feedback that the community has submitted.

While specific embodiments and applications of the disclosure have been illustrated and described it is to be understood that the disclosure is not limited to the precise configuration and components disclosed herein. Various modifications changes and variations apparent to those of skill in the art may be made in the arrangement operation and details of the methods and systems of the disclosure without departing from the spirit and scope of the disclosure.

