---

title: Compositions and methods for treating and preventing cardiomyopathy and heart disease
abstract: The present invention relates to compositions and methods for treating and preventing heart disease. In particular, the present invention provides compositions comprising poloxamers (e.g., poloxamer 188-P188) and methods of using the same for treating and preventing heart disease (e.g., in subjects with muscular dystrophy) and for treating cells and tissue damage caused by ischemia and cell death (e.g., for treating dystrophin-deficient cells (e.g., myocytes)).
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=08580245&OS=08580245&RS=08580245
owner: The Regents of the University of Michigan
number: 08580245
owner_city: Ann Arbor
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20101029
---
The present application is a continuation of allowed U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 885 304 filed Jun. 25 2008 which is a U.S. 371 National Stage Entry of International Patent Application No. PCT US2006 006862 international filing date Feb. 27 2006 which claims priority to expired U.S. Provisional Patent Application No. 60 656 570 filed Feb. 25 2005 the contents of which are hereby incorporated by reference in their entireties.

This invention was made with government support under grant number AG015434 awarded by the National Institutes of Health. The government has certain rights in the invention.

The present invention relates to compositions and methods for treating and preventing heart disease. In particular the present invention provides compositions comprising poloxamers e.g. poloxamer 188 P188 and methods of using the same for treating and preventing heart disease e.g. in subjects with muscular dystrophy and for treating cells and tissue damage caused by ischemia and cell death e.g. for treating dystrophin deficient cells e.g. myocytes .

Heart failure is a chronic progressive disease. In the United States there are 5 million patients with heart failure. Approximately 550 000 new cases are diagnosed and more that 285 000 deaths occur annually from heart failure indicating that the number of heart failure patients is on the rise.

Dystrophin deficiency causes Duchenne muscular dystrophy DMD in humans an inherited and progressive disease of striated muscle deterioration that frequently involves pronounced cardiomyopathy See e.g. Muntoni Curr Opin Neurol 16 577 83 2003 . Heart failure accounts for an estimated 15 of the fatalities in DMD See e.g. Emery A. E. H. in Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy ed. Emery A. E. H. Oxford University Press Oxford 2003 . Progress toward defining the molecular basis of disease in DMD has mostly come from studies on skeletal muscles with comparatively little attention directed at cardiac muscle.

The pathophysiological mechanisms involved in cardiac myocytes are likely to differ significantly from skeletal myofibers as underscored by significant cardiac disease in patients with truncated or reduced levels of dystrophin without skeletal muscle disease See e.g. Finsterer and Stollberger Cardiology 99 1 19 2003 . Thus several fundamental questions regarding the consequences of dystrophin deficiency in cardiac muscle remain unanswered. Notably it is unknown whether dystrophin deficiency directly causes altered force transmission and or membrane fragility in cardiac muscle at the single myocyte level.

There exists a need for new compositions and new methods for treating heart disease in general as well as heart disease related to dystrophic cells tissues and subjects and for preventing and or correcting the underlying bases of pathogenesis in subjects with heart disease e.g. generally as well as in dystrophic subjects .

The present invention relates to compositions and methods for treating and preventing heart disease. In particular the present invention provides compositions comprising poloxamers e.g. poloxamer 188 P188 and methods of using the same for treating and preventing heart disease e.g. in subjects with muscular dystrophy and for treating cells and tissue damage caused by ischemia and cell death e.g. for treating dystrophin deficient cells e.g. myocytes .

Accordingly in some embodiments the present invention provides a method of treating a subject with diastolic dysfunction comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a poloxamer under conditions such that diastolic dysfunction is improved in the subject. In some embodiments the poloxamer is P188. In some embodiments the subject is a human subject. The present invention is not limited by the type of subject treated with a composition comprising a poloxamer of the present invention. Indeed a variety of subjects can be treated including but not limited to mice dogs pigs and other non human mammals. In some embodiments the composition is administered via intravenous administration. The present invention is not limited by the route of administration of a composition comprising a poloxamer of the present invention. Indeed a variety of routes can be used for administration including but not limited to intraarterial subcutaneous intraventricular oral e.g. via ingestion or other route of administration. In some embodiments treating prevents acute heart failure in said subject. In some embodiments the improvement in diastolic dysfunction comprises an improvement in left ventricular function in the subject. In some embodiments the improvement in left ventricular function comprises an improvement in baseline hemodynamic performance in the subject. In some embodiments the improvement in diastolic dysfunction comprises an increase in left ventricular diastolic volume in the subject. In some embodiments the subject is a dystrophin deficient subject. In some embodiments the subject has Duchene s muscular dystrophy. In some embodiments the subject has diastolic heart failure or acute heart failure. In some embodiments treating decreases susceptibility to calcium overload in heart tissue of the subject. In some embodiments decreasing susceptibility to calcium overload in heart tissue of the subject comprises lowering intracellular Calevels in cardiac myocytes of the subject. In some embodiments lowering intracellular Calevels in cardiac myocytes prevents remodelling or reverses remodelling of cardiac muscle tissue in the subject. In some embodiments treating decreases cell contracture and or cell death in the heart tissue of the subject. In some embodiments the poloxamer is a purified and or fractionated poloxamer. In some embodiments the composition comprising a poloxamer is co administered with one or more agents used for the treatment of heart disease including but not limited to a diuretic a loop diuretic a potassium sparing agent a vasodilator an ACE inhibitor an angiotensin II antagonist a positive inotropic agent a phosphodiesterase inhibitor a beta adrenergic receptor antagonist a calcium channel blocker a nitrate an alpha blocker a central alpha antagonist a statin or a combination of these agents. In some embodiments the composition and methods of the present invention find use in research and or therapeutic e.g. clinical therapy applications.

The present invention also provides a method of increasing left ventricular diastolic volume in a dystrophin deficient subject comprising administering to the subject a composition comprising a poloxamer. In some embodiments the poloxamer reduces intracellular calcium concentration in dystrophin deficient cardiac myocytes in the subject. In some embodiments reducing intracellular calcium concentration in dystrophin deficient myocytes reduces the subject s susceptibility to calcium overload. In some embodiments increasing left ventricular diastolic volume in the subject prevents acute cardiac failure in the subject. In some embodiments improvement in left ventricular function comprises an improvement in baseline hemodynamic performance in the subject. In some embodiments the dystrophin deficient subject is a human subject with Duchene s muscular dystrophy. In some embodiments lowering intracellular calcium concentration in dystrophin deficient cardiac myocytes prevents remodelling and or reverses remodelling of cardiac muscle tissue in the subject. In some embodiments the poloxamer is a purified poloxamer. In some embodiments the poloxamer is a fractionated poloxamer. In some embodiments the composition comprising a poloxamer is co administered with one or more agents used for the treatment of heart disease including but not limited to a diuretic a loop diuretic a potassium sparing agent a vasodilator an ACE inhibitor an angiotensin II antagonist a positive inotropic agent a phosphodiesterase inhibitor a beta adrenergic receptor antagonist a calcium channel blocker a nitrate an alpha blocker a central alpha antagonist a statin or a combination of these agents.

The present invention also provides a method of reducing calcium concentration in cardiac myocytes comprising administering a composition comprising a poloxamer to the cardiac myocytes. In some embodiments the cardiac myocytes comprise dystrophin deficient cardiac myocytes. The present invention is not limited by the type of poloxamer administered to cardiac myocytes for altering calcium concentration therein. In some embodiments the poloxamer is P188. In some embodiments administering a composition comprising a poloxamer to the cardiac myocytes prevents cell contracture of the cardiac myocytes. In some embodiments administering a composition comprising a poloxamer to the cardiac myocytes prevents cell death of the cardiac myocytes.

As used herein the term signs and symptoms of heart disease refers to signs and symptoms associated with heart disease e.g. recognized by simple observation and when combined with an individual s age and family history of heart disease can lead to an accurate and early diagnosis of heart disease . Examples of signs and symptoms of heart disease include but are not limited to dyspnea chest pain palpitations syncope edema cyanosis and fatigue. A number of such symptoms are subject to quantitative analysis e.g. palpitations cyanosis etc. . Other symptoms include diastolic dysfunction decreased hemodynamic performance and decreased left ventricular end diastolic volume. The term wherein said symptoms are reduced refers to a qualitative or quantitative reduction in detectable symptoms including but not limited to an increase in hemodynamic performance and increased left ventricular end diastolic volume.

As used herein the phrase under conditions such that signs and symptoms of heart disease are reduced refers to any degree of qualitative or quantitative reduction in signs and symptoms of heart disease.

As used herein the term at risk for heart disease refers to subjects e.g. a segment of the world population or research animals that have an increased risk i.e. over the average subject e.g. person or research animal for heart disease and can occur at any age.

As used herein the term therapeutic composition comprising a poloxamer refers to compositions containing a poloxamer e.g. P188 used for the treatment of heart disease. A therapeutic composition comprising a poloxamer may also comprise one or more other compounds or agents including but not limited to agent useful for the treatment of heart disease e.g. ACE inhibitors statins beta blockers and the like other therapeutic agents physiologically tolerable liquids gels carriers diluents excipients salicylates immunosuppressants antibiotics binders fillers preservatives stabilizing agents emulsifiers and buffers.

As used herein the terms agent useful for the treatment of heart disease and agents useful for the treatment of heart disease refer to any one or more agents currently used for the treatment of signs and symptoms of heart disease. These agents include but are not limited to a diuretic a loop diuretic a potassium sparing agent a vasodilator an ACE inhibitor an angiotensin II antagonist a positive inotropic agent a phosphodiesterase inhibitor a beta adrenergic receptor antagonist a calcium channel blocker a nitrate an alpha blocker a central alpha antagonist a statin and combinations of two or more of these agents. Examples of these agents are provided herein. Also included within the meaning of these terms are agents that are being clinically evaluated e.g. in a clinical trial for efficacy in the treatment of signs and symptoms of heart disease.

As used herein the terms host subject and patient refer to any animal including but not limited to human and non human animals e.g. rodents arthropods insects e.g. Diptera fish e.g. zebrafish non human primates ovines bovines ruminants lagomorphs porcines caprines equines canines felines ayes etc. that is studied analyzed tested diagnosed or treated e.g. administered therapeutically or prophylactically a composition comprising a poloxamer of the present invention . The terms host subject and patient are used interchangeably unless indicated otherwise herein.

As used herein the terms therapeutically effective amount and effective amount when used in reference to a composition comprising a poloxamer of the present invention refer to an amount e.g. a dosage level sufficient to effect beneficial or desired results e.g. that are effective at treating or preventing signs and symptoms of heart disease . An effective amount can be administered in one or more administrations applications or dosages and is not intended to be limited to a particular formulation or administration route.

As used herein the terms administration and administering refer to the act of giving a drug prodrug or other agent or therapeutic treatment e.g. compositions of the present invention to a subject e.g. a subject or in vivo in vitro or ex vivo cells tissues and organs .

As used herein the terms co administration and co administering refer to the administration of at least two agent s e.g. a composition comprising a poloxamer and one or more other agents e.g. a calcium channel blocker or therapies to a subject. In some embodiments the co administration of two or more agents or therapies is concurrent. In other embodiments a first agent therapy is administered prior to a second agent therapy. Those of skill in the art understand that the formulations and or routes of administration of the various agents or therapies used may vary. The appropriate dosage for co administration can be readily determined by one skilled in the art. In some embodiments when agents or therapies are co administered the respective agents or therapies are administered at lower dosages than appropriate for their administration alone. Thus co administration is especially desirable in embodiments where the co administration of the agents or therapies lowers the requisite dosage of a potentially harmful e.g. toxic agent s and or when co administration of two or more agents results in sensitization of a subject to beneficial effects of one of the agents via co administration of the other agent.

As used herein the term treatment or grammatical equivalents encompasses the improvement and or reversal of the symptoms of heart disease. An agent that causes an improvement in any parameter associated with disease when used in screening methods of the instant invention may thereby be identified as a therapeutic compound. The term treatment refers to both therapeutic treatment and prophylactic or preventative measures. For example those who may benefit from treatment with compositions and methods of the present invention include those already with a disease and or dysfunction e.g. heart disease or diastolic dysfunction as well as those in which a disease and or dysfunction is to be prevented e.g. using a prophylactic treatment of the present invention .

As used herein the term at risk for disease refers to a subject e.g. a human that is predisposed to experiencing a particular disease. This predisposition may be genetic e.g. a particular genetic tendency to experience the disease such as heritable disorders or due to other factors e.g. environmental conditions hypertension metabolic syndrome etc. . Thus it is not intended that the present invention be limited to any particular risk nor is it intended that the present invention be limited to any particular type of heart disease.

As used herein the term suffering from disease refers to a subject e.g. a human that is experiencing a particular disease. It is not intended that the present invention be limited to any particular signs or symptoms nor disease. Thus it is intended that the present invention encompass subjects that are experiencing any range of disease e.g. from sub clinical manifestation to full blown disease wherein the subject exhibits at least some of the indicia e.g. signs and symptoms associated with the particular disease.

As used herein the terms disease and pathological condition are used interchangeably to describe a state signs and or symptoms that are associated with any impairment of the normal state of a living animal or of any of its organs or tissues that interrupts or modifies the performance of normal functions.

The terms compound and agents refer to any chemical entity pharmaceutical drug and the like that can be used to treat or prevent a disease illness sickness or disorder of bodily function. Compounds comprise both known and potential therapeutic compounds. A known therapeutic compound refers to a therapeutic compound that has been shown e.g. through animal trials or prior experience with administration to humans to be effective in such treatment. In other words a known therapeutic compound is not limited to a compound efficacious in the treatment of disease e.g. heart disease .

There are about 5 million patients within the United States that have heart disease with approximately 2 million of this group having New York Heart Association Class III or class IV heart failure that encompasses the population with moderate to severe symptoms See e.g. American Heart Association. Heart Disease and Stroke Statistics 2006 Update Dallas AHA 2006 . About 22 of male and 46 of female heart attack victims will be disabled with heart failure within 6 years. This disease typically progresses from class III to IV over 3 10 years where the patient may be treated with pharmacological therapy including blockers angiotensin II receptor type 1 blockers angiotensin I converting enzyme inhibitors calcium channel blockers and vasodilators. As additional symptoms occur patients may require medical devices such as implantable pacemakers or defibrillators and possibly left ventricular assist devices LVAD . With the possible exception of LVADs these therapies prolong life but do not stop or reverse the deterioration of heart function. In the end stages of this disease patients are frequently hospitalized with dangerously low left ventricular ejection fraction and require intravenous IV inotropes to increase contractility of the heart muscle and diuretics to decrease fluid burden.

Several risk factors for heart failure appear to be increasing in the general population in the form of metabolic syndrome e.g. hypertension dyslipidemia obesity and diabetes . An estimated 1 million 12 19 year old adolescents in the United States have metabolic syndrome or 4.2 overall. Forty seven million adults in the U.S. have metabolic syndrome or 23.7 overall. In the case of diabetes left ventricular diastolic dysfunction may represent the first stage of diabetic cardiomyopathy See e.g. Raev 1994 Diabetes Care 17 633 639 .

Diastolic dysfunction is a condition where abnormalities in mechanical function of the heart are present during diastole. It can be a prelude to diastolic heart failure characterized by signs and symptoms of heart failure in the presence of a preserved ejection fraction and abnormal diastolic function See e.g. Zile and Brutsaert 2002 Circ. 105 1387 1393 . These abnormalities are caused by decreased ventricular relaxation and or increased ventricular stiffness. Diastolic dysfunction is very common. In a study by the Mayo Clinic in the general population of Minnesota 21 of adults over the age of 45 had mild diastolic dysfunction See e.g. Redfield et al. 2003 JAMA 289 194 202 

Annual mortality from cardiomyopathy as either the primary cause of death or as a contributing factor is 54 700 See e.g. American Heart Association. Heart Disease and Stroke Statistics 2006 Update Dallas AHA 2006 . Eighty seven percent of these cases are congestive or dilated cardiomyopathy DCM . Of the patients with DCM 50 are alive 5 years after initial diagnosis and 25 are alive after 10 years Facts About Cardiomyopathy NIH NHLBI 1995 .

Approximately 1 in every 3500 males is affected with Duchenne Muscular Dystrophy DMD while Becker Muscular Dystrophy BMD is less common affecting approximately 1 in every 30 000 males. Both diseases are the result of mutations in the gene located on the X chromosome at Xp21.1 that encodes dystrophin. In DMD dystrophin is absent while in BMD it is either reduced or abnormal in size. Dystrophin is a structural protein that participates in cellular organization in muscle cells and promotes both myofibrillular and sarcolemma muscle cell membrane stability See e.g. Kaprielian and Severs 2000 Heart Failure Reviews 5 221 238 . Cardiac disease in both DMD and BMD manifests as dilated cardiomyopathy and or cardiac arrhythmia. It is seen in young patients with an incidence of 26 by the age of 6 years. Death occurs in these patients typically in their early to mid 20s. About 20 of DMD patients and 50 of BMD patients die from heart failure. Female carriers of DMD or BMD are also at risk for cardiomyopathy. The age of onset is unclear but is thought to be in the adult years. Cardiac involvement ranges from asymptomatic to severe heart failure.

It remains unclear just how heart failure arising from different etiologies relates to that associated with DMD. The loss of dystrophin and dystrophin associated proteins in the membranes of cardiac myocytes from both human subjects and animal models is well documented and has recently been reviewed See e.g. Kawada et al. 2005 . Pharmacol. Therap. 107 31 43 . These proteins form complexes that provide mechanical resistance to overexpansion of the sarcolemma. Loss of one of these proteins can result in disruption of the complex membrane instability muscle degeneration and eventually cardiomyopathy. It has been shown that there is a significant loss of dystrophin from the sarcolemma of cardiac myocytes in heart failure. This occurs in response to a diverse set of stressors including catecholamine administration coronary ligation resulting in acute myocardial ischemia and in chronic heart failure after myocardial infarction. The stressors can either be long term effecting the structural remodeling of the heart or immediate effecting the membrane stability and intracellular calcium levels. The increase in calcium concentration to high levels activates calcium activated proteases calpains that among other things cleave dystrophin. This loss eventually leads to muscle degeneration dilated cardiomyopathy DCM heart muscle disease associated with an enlarged and improperly functioning heart and heart failure. This in turn may eventually lead to advanced heart failure.

In addition to the physical and emotional costs of heart failure the financial costs are high. The annual costs are approximately 38 billion with 60 of that related to hospitalization. Annually this accounts for 6.5 million hospital days. There has been a 174 increase in hospital discharges related to heart failure from 1979 to 2003 See e.g. American Heart Association. Heart Disease and Stroke Statistics 2006 Update Dallas AHA 2006 . Heart failure is the most common reason for hospitalization of Medicare beneficiaries CDC Heart Failure Fact Sheet . Thus heart failure represents a growing medical challenge with 50 of patients having 3 or more co morbidities and the typical patient prescribed on average 6 medications. Seventy eight percent of subjects with some form of heart disease had at least 2 hospital admissions per year See e.g. English and Mastream 1995 Crit. Care Nurs. Q. 18 1 6 .

Notably about 50 of heart failure patients approximately 2 million subjects have diastolic dysfunction. Thus a major unmet medical need is for therapies that address diastolic dysfunction.

Accordingly the present invention provides novel insights into the pathogenesis of cardiomyopathy and heart failure e.g. related to diastolic dysfunction e.g. in dystrophin deficient myocytes and animals and compositions and methods for the treatment and prevention of the same and for research uses. Specifically the present invention identifies that intact isolated dystrophin deficient cardiac myocytes have reduced compliance and increased susceptibility to stretch mediated calcium overload leading to cell contracture and death. Furthermore in some embodiments the present invention provides methods of treating this calcium overload with a membrane sealant poloxamer e.g. poloxamer 188 P188 a non ionic co polymer that can insert into artificial lipid monolayers and seal electroporated membranes. In some embodiments treatment with a poloxamer e.g. P188 reverses diastolic deficiencies at the myocyte and organ level e.g. in dystrophic cells tissues and subjects See Examples 3 6 . In some embodiments treatment with a poloxamer prevents acute heart failure in vivo.

Gene or cell based approaches demonstrated to have some efficacy in animal studies are complicated in translating to humans. However poloxamers are non toxic and demonstrated safe in humans. Thus in some embodiments the present invention offers ready compositions for prophylactics and therapeutics for heart disease e.g. caused by diastolic dysfunction e.g. related to stretch mediated calcium overload e.g. in DMD subjects and other diseases characterized by membrane instability .

In particular the present invention provides in experimental datasets spanning single cardiac myocytes to whole animals identification of the primary defect in dystrophic heart and its correction by a chemical based membrane repair strategy. First a unique microcarbon fiber assay was employed that permitted the introduction of physiologically relevant sarcomere length excursions on single living cardiac myocytes from normal and dystrophin deficient mdx mice. Data generated during development of the present invention demonstrates that mdx myocytes in response to passive distentions in cell length have heightened susceptibility to intracellular calcium overload causing myocyte hyper contracture and death indicating membrane fragility in response to physiological loading. The present invention also demonstrates that compositions e.g. poloxamers e.g. P188 are capable of immediately restoring mdx myocyte compliance to that of control and reverse mdx myocyte heightened susceptibility to calcium overload cell contracture death See Examples 3 6 . Accordingly in some embodiments the invention provides methods of protecting cells and subjects e.g. humans non human mammals etc. from acute cardiac failure and subsequent death via administering to the subject a poloxamer e.g. P188 . In further embodiments the invention provides treatments for diastolic dysfunction in a subject comprising administering e.g. intravenous IV administration to the subject e.g. a dystrophic subject a composition comprising a poloxamer e.g. P188 . Although an understanding of the mechanism is not necessary to practice the present invention and the present invention is not limited to any particular mechanism of action in some embodiments administration of a composition comprising a poloxamer e.g. P188 produces improvements e.g. immediate and or sustained in left ventricular function due to a return to normal of left ventricular diastolic volume.

The present invention demonstrates that in dystrophin deficient hearts stretch induced abnormal increases in Ca result in decreased compliance at the cellular level and lower diastolic volume in vivo See Examples 2 4 . Furthermore the present invention demonstrates that the calcium influx results from a loss of membrane integrity and that a composition comprising a poloxamer e.g. P188 can correct these abnormalities.

Current therapeutic paradigms for DMD are focused on the expression of dystrophin through exon skipping or viral transduction of truncated dystrophin or other genes e.g. utrophin or dysferlin that limit the consequences of dystrophin deficiency See e.g. Gregorevic et al. Nat Med 10 828 34 2004 Squire et al. Hum Mol Genet 11 3333 44 2002 Torrente et al. J Clin Invest 114 182 95 2004 Goyenvalle et al. Science 306 1796 9 2004 . These strategies are promising but are challenging due to the requisite targeting of all striated muscle in the body. The present invention provides a comparatively simple chemical based alternative for treating DMD comprising administering to a subject with DMD a composition comprising a poloxamer. Although an understanding of the mechanism is not necessary to practice the present invention and the present invention is not limited to any particular mechanism of action in some embodiments administration of a poloxamer results in acute membrane stabilization and or repair.

As demonstrated herein e.g. in mouse and dog models of DMD See Examples 5 and 6 administration of a poloxamer provides ready and immediate beneficial hemodynamic effects under both basal and stress conditions in dystrophic subjects. Currently P188 is in phase III clinical trials for the treatment of vaso occlusive crisis in sickle cell anemia patients having recently demonstrated the safety and non toxicity of P188 in humans See e.g. Adams Graves et al. Blood 90 2041 6 1997 . However unlike the episodic course of sickle cell anemia DMD is a progressive disease and effective poloxamer therapy in some embodiments utilizes chronic intravascular administration. Thus the present invention utilizes membrane sealing poloxamers that represent a new class of therapeutic agents for preventing or limiting progressive damage to diastolic dysfunctional hearts e.g. in DMD subjects and for treating cardiomyopathies associated with defects in the dystrophin glycoprotein complex See e.g. Straub and Campbell Curr Opin Neurol 10 168 75 1997 .

The present invention is not limited to any particular poloxamer for use in stabilizing the membrane of cardiac muscle cells in heart failure subjects e.g. thereby increasing cellular compliance and improving heart function . In some preferred embodiments P188 is used e.g. in a composition e.g. pharmaceutical composition of the present invention . The present invention is not limited to use of P188. Indeed any poloxamer that possesses similar characteristics and traits e.g. biological effects with those of P188 find use in the present invention including but not limited to P138 P237 P288 P124 P338 and P407.

P188 is one of a family of poloxamer molecules originally developed by BASF in the 1950s. It is a nonionic triblock co polymer made of poly ethylene oxide poly propylene oxide poly ethylene oxide molecular mass 8.4 Kda . The molecule has several names including PLURONIC F68 RheothRx and FLOCOR.

Poloxamers also termed PLURONIC block polymers available from BASF Corp. Wyandotte Mich. generally comprise ethylene oxide EO and propylene oxide PO blocks arranged in a basic A B A structure EO PO EO. This arrangement results in an amphiphilic copolymer in which the number of hydrophilic EOand hydrophobic POunits can be altered See e.g. Reeve pgs. 231 249 in Handbook of Biodegradable Polymers Harwood Academic Pub. Eds. Domb et al. 1997 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety . The backbone structure of various poloxamers is shown in . A list of selected PLURONIC copolymers available from BASF Corp. is shown in . Copolymers with various x and y values are characterized by distinct hydrophilic lipophilic balance HLB . Poloxamers can be synthesized by sequential addition of PO and EO monomers in the presence of an alkaline catalyst such as sodium or potassium hydroxide See e.g. Schmolka J. Am. Oil Chem. Soc. 54 1977 110 116 . The reaction is initiated by polymerization of the PO block followed by the growth of EO chains at both ends of the PO block. Anionic polymerization usually produces polymers with a relatively low polydispersity index M M .

In some embodiments a composition comprising a poloxamer of the present invention comprises a purified and or fractionated poloxamer e.g. purified and or fractionated using gel filtration or chromatographic fractionation See e.g. Emanuele et al. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 1998 7 1193 20 U.S. Pat. Nos. 6 977 045 and 6 761 824 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety . In some embodiments poloxamers are used that have admixtures e.g. PO homopolymer and or block copolymer admixtures removed. In some embodiments a poloxamer e.g. polyoxypropylene polyoxyethylene copolymer is used that is optimized for improved biological activity See e.g. U.S. Pat. No. 6 747 064 hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety . In some embodiments chemically modified forms of one or more poloxamers are utilized in the compositions and methods of the present invention. Chemical modifications of poloxamers include but are not limited to radiolabelling acetylating biotinylation addition of a fluorophore and other chemical modifications.

A variety of poloxamers can be used in e.g. in a composition comprising a poloxamer the present invention that possess similar characteristics and traits e.g. biological effects with those of P188 e.g. based on characteristics described in . These poloxamers include but are not limited to P138 P237 P288 P124 P338 and P407. In some embodiments a poloxamer with a molecular weight of between 5000 and 9000 daltons is used e.g. in a composition e.g. pharmaceutical composition of the present invention . In some embodiments a poloxamer with a molecular weight of between 9000 and 12000 daltons is used e.g. in a composition e.g. pharmaceutical composition of the present invention . In some embodiments a poloxamer with a molecular weight of between 12000 and 15000 daltons is used. A poloxamer with a molecular weight below 5000 or greater than 15000 daltons may also find use in the present invention e.g. in a composition e.g. pharmaceutical composition of the present invention .

In some embodiments a poloxamer with a polyoxyethylene content greater than 50 is used e.g. in a composition e.g. pharmaceutical composition of the present invention . In some embodiments a poloxamer with a polyoxyethylene content between 50 and 60 is used. In some embodiments a poloxamer with a polyoxyethylene content between 60 and 70 is used. Poloxamers with a polyoxyethylene content below 50 and above 70 may also find use in the present invention e.g. in a composition e.g. pharmaceutical composition of the present invention .

Some common biological uses of P188 include use as a stool softener in several commercially available laxatives as an ingredient in cosmetics and as an emulsifier for pharmaceutical agents. It is a powerful surfactant. P188 has been shown to insert into lipid monolayers See e.g. Maskarinec et al. 2002 Biophys. J. 82 1453 1459 . It has many biological effects in vivo including the repair of electrically damaged cell membranes See e.g. Lee et al. 1992 Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89 4524 4528 in controlled drug delivery for sensitizing tumors to chemotherapy See e.g. Kabanov et al. Adv Drug Deliv Rev 2002 54 759 779 and for delivery of gene therapies among others. Additionally P188 was shown to have an effect on blood flow and viscosity as well as platelet adhesiveness. See e.g. Grover et al. 1969 Circ. 39 and 40 I249 Suppl. I . It was developed as a therapeutic agent under the name of RheothRx by Glaxo Welcome See e.g. Adams Graves et al. 1997 Blood 90 2041 2046 and by CytRx under the name of FLOCOR for vaso occlusive crisis in sickle cell disease and has been in phase III clinical trials See e.g. Emanuele 1998 Expert Opin. Investig. Drugs 7 1193 1200 . It was also in Phase III trials to assess thrombolytic activity in patients with acute myocardial infarction MI CORE with mixed results Schaer et al. 1996 Circ. 94 298 307 Chareonthaitawe et al. 2000 Heart 84 142 148 . It has been in Phase II trials as an adjunct to primary percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty for acute MI See e.g. O Keefe et al. 1996 Am. J. Cardiol. 78 747 750 . Thus the present invention contemplates use of poloxamers e.g. P138 P237 and P288 that enjoy similar characteristics and biological effects to those of P188 e.g. to treat and or prevent heart failure e.g. caused by diastolic dysfunction .

P188 is safe when given acutely for up to 72 hr See e.g. Adams Graves et al. 1997 Blood 90 2041 2046 and is well tolerated in children and adults upon repeated exposure See e.g. Gibbs and Hagemann 2004 Ann. Pharmacother. 38 320 324 . The most significant adverse effect in studies with RheothRx was renal dysfunction but this was not seen with the more highly purified form FLOCOR. The most frequently experienced adverse effects were pain injection site abnormalities and nausea. It has a half life in plasma of 7.5 hr in rodents and 18 hr in human subjects. Pharmacokinetic studies have shown that 

The present invention provides that a composition comprising a poloxamer e.g. P188 can be used as a first in class therapy for heart disease. In some embodiments a composition comprising a poloxamer e.g. P188 provides additive or synergistic benefits when administered with one or more compositions e.g pharmaceuticals drugs etc. used currently for heart disease.

In some embodiments compositions of the present invention are used to treat dystrophin deficient myocytes e.g. that develop more tension compared to normal cardiac myocytes when stretched to sarcomeric lengths physiologically relevant to diastole . In some embodiments compositions of the present invention e.g. comprising a poloxamer are used to treat or prevent cardiac muscle cells from becoming unstable e.g. that display fibrillations calcium overload contracture and or cell death . For example in some embodiments a composition comprising a poloxamer of the present invention can be used to increase cellular compliance and decrease intracellular Cato control levels in unstable cardiac myocytes. Although an understanding of the mechanism is not necessary to practice the present invention and the present invention is not limited to any particular mechanism of action in some embodiments treating unstable cardiac myocytes with a composition comprising a poloxamer of the present invention e.g. administrating a composition comprising a poloxamer to myocytes alters e.g. neutralizes the detrimental effect and or reconstitutes e.g. repairs small tears in the sarcolemma.

In vivo studies of heart function revealed that intravenous infusion of poloxamer into subjects with diastolic heart abnormalities e.g. mdx mice improved baseline hemodynamic performance including an increase in left ventricular end diastolic volume See Examples 3 6 . Thus in some embodiments the present invention provides a method of increasing left ventricular end diastolic volume in a subject e.g. a subject suffering from diastolic dysfunction comprising providing a subject and administering to the subject a composition comprising a poloxamer e.g. P188 or equivalent thereof . In some embodiments compositions and methods of the present invention are used to increase left ventricular end diastolic volume in subjects with heart failure e.g. end stage or symptomatic heart failure e.g. in subjects with muscular dystrophy or heart failure generally . Although an understanding of the mechanism is not necessary to practice the present invention and the present invention is not limited to any particular mechanism of action in some embodiments administration of a poloxamer to a subject lowers intracellular Calevels in cardiac myocytes of the subject thereby preventing remodelling of cardiac muscle tissue and or reversing remodelling of cardiac tissue due to heart failure.

The present invention is not limited by the type of heart failure treated. Indeed any heart failure comprising diastolic defects e.g. defects of left ventricular end diastolic volume can be treated with the compositions and methods of the present invention. In some embodiments the diastolic defect results from cardiomyopathy. The cardiomyopathy may be any one or more of a diverse group of diseases characterized by myocardial dysfunction. Cardiomyopathies are categorized hemodynamically into dilated hypertrophic restrictive and obliterative cardiomyopathy and can be of known or idiopathic etiology. Among the etiologies of dilated cardiomyopathy are pregnancy drugs and toxins such as alcohol cocaine and chemotherapeutic agents e.g. doxorubicin and daunorubicin dactinomycin dacarbazine cyclophosphamide mitomycin and anthracycline and infectious and autoimmune processes. Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is hereditary in more than 50 of cases and has a distinctive pattern of myocardial hypertrophy e.g. thickening of muscle usually with a pattern of asymmetrical thickening of the interventricular septum also called asymmetrical septal hypertrophy . Restrictive cardiomyopathies are usually the product of an infiltrative disease of the myocardium such as amyloidosis hemochromatosis or a glycogen storage disease and may also be seen in certain diabetic patients. Obliterative cardiomyopathy can be caused by endomyocardial fibrosis and hypereosinophilic syndrome. A common complication of all of the cardiomyopathies is progressive congestive heart failure.

Congestive heart failure is often defined as the inability of the heart to deliver a supply of oxygenated blood sufficient to meet the metabolic needs of peripheral tissues at normal filling pressures. Chronic congestive heart failure can result as a consequence of coronary artery disease cardiomyopathy myocarditis aortic stenosis hypertension idiopathic asymmetrical septal hypertrophy coarctation of the aorta aortic regurgitation mitral regurgitation left to right shunts hypertrophied muscle pericardial tamponade constrictive pericarditis mitral stenosis left atrial mzxoma left atrial thrombus cortriatriatum and numerous other conditions. Congestive heart failure is generally distinguished from other causes of inadequate oxygen delivery e.g. circulatory collapse from hemorrhage or other causes of severe volume loss congestion caused by fluid overload and high output failure caused by increased peripheral demands which occurs in conditions such as thyrotoxicosis arteriovenous fistula Paget s disease and anemia . Therapy for congestive heart failure has typically focused on treating the underlying etiology and the symptoms of fluid overload and heart failure. Chronic congestive heart failure that persists after correction of reversible causes can be treated with diuretics e.g. including but not limited to thiazides such as chlorothiazide and hydrochlorothiazide loop diuretics e.g. including but not limited to ethacrynic acid furosemide torsemide and bumetanide potassium sparing agents e.g. including but not limited to spironolactone triamterene and amiloride and others agents e.g. including but not limited to metolazone and other quinazoline sulfonamides vasodilators e.g. nitroglycerin isosorbide dinitrate hydralazine sodium nitroprusside prostacyclin captopril enalapril lisinopril quinapril and losartan positive inotropic agents e.g. digitalis or digoxin beta blockers or combinations of one or more of these agents.

Compositions and methods of the present invention can be used to treat multiple types of heart failure including but not limited to chronic heart failure e.g. long term congestive heart failure e.g. congestive heart failure persisting more than two weeks or more than three weeks or more than one month or more than two months more than three months or more heart failure that persists after correction of reversible causes and heart failure not immediately associated with an acute myocardial infarction or an acute infectious process. In addition heart disease caused by congenital heart defects e.g. that may result in congestive heart failure or cyanotic heart disease e.g. pulmonary atresia total anomalous pulmonary venous return ventricular septal defect hypoplastic left heart syndrome double outlet right ventricle right pulmonary artery stenosis interrupted aortic arch Ebsteins s anomaly tetralogy of Fallot atrioventricular canal transposition of the great arteries and truncus arteriosus may also be treated with compositions and methods of the present invention.

Accordingly the present invention is not limited by the type of subject administered a composition of the present invention. Indeed a wide variety of subjects are contemplated to be benefited from administration of a composition of the present invention. In preferred embodiments the subject is a human. In some embodiments human subjects are of any age e.g. adults children infants etc. that have or are likely to suffer from heart disease e.g. caused by diastolic dysfunction e.g. a subject with DMD . In some embodiments the subjects are non human mammals e.g. pigs cattle goats horses sheep or other livestock or mice rats rabbits or other animal commonly used in research settings .

The present invention further provides pharmaceutical compositions e.g. comprising a poloxamer described herein . A composition comprising a poloxamer of the present invention can be used therapeutically e.g. to correct diastolic dysfunction or as a prophylactic e.g. to prevent signs or symptoms of heart disease e.g. diastolic dysfunction . A composition comprising a poloxamer of the present invention can be administered to a subject via a number of different delivery routes and methods.

In preferred embodiments a composition comprising a poloxamer of the present invention is administered via intravenous IV administration. In some embodiments a composition of the present invention may be administered one or more times a day for several days. In some embodiments a composition of the present invention may be administered one or more times a day for more than one week. In some embodiments a composition of the present invention may be administered one or more times a day for two or more weeks. In some embodiments a composition of the present invention may be administered one or more times a day for one or more months two or more months four or more months eight or more months or for more than a year. In preferred embodiments a composition of the present invention is administered e.g. via chronic administration e.g. administered one two three or more times a week in a physician s office for a duration e.g. over a period of weeks months or years that is sufficient to increase heart function and or stop progression of disease and or reverse remodelling of heart tissue e.g. by lowering and maintaining intracellular calcium levels at normal levels . The present invention is not limited by intravenous administration. Indeed any method of administration that introduces a composition of the present invention into the vasculature is contemplated to be useful as a delivery means. For example in some embodiments a composition of the present invention is administered via parenteral administration. Examples of parenteral administration include intravenous intraarterial subcutaneous intraperitoneal intramuscular injection or infusion intrathecal or intraventricular administration.

Compositions and formulations for parenteral IV or other route of administration may include sterile aqueous solutions that may also contain buffers diluents and other suitable additives such as but not limited to penetration enhancers carrier compounds and other pharmaceutically acceptable carriers or excipients.

A composition of the present invention may be formulated for administration by any route such as intravenous or other route described herein. In some embodiments a composition of the present invention may comprise sterile aqueous preparations. Acceptable vehicles and solvents include but are not limited to water Ringer s solution phosphate buffered saline and isotonic sodium chloride solution. In addition sterile fixed oils are conventionally employed as a solvent or suspending medium. For this purpose any bland fixed mineral or non mineral oil may be employed including synthetic mono ordi glycerides. In addition fatty acids such as oleic acid find use in the preparation of injectables. Carrier formulations suitable for IV parenteral mucosal subcutaneous intramuscular intraperitoneal intravenous oral e.g. via ingestion or administration via other routes may be found in Remington The Science and Practice of Pharmacy Mack Publishing Company Easton Pa. 19th edition 1995.

In additional preferred embodiments a composition of the present invention is administered in an amount e.g. a dose that is sufficient to increase heart function and or stop progression of disease and or reverse remodelling of heart tissue e.g. by lowering and maintaining intracellular calcium levels at normal levels . The present invention is not limited to any particular dose. Indeed the desired dose may vary depending upon the subject being treated e.g. the age health status and type and or degree of heart disease being treated .

In some embodiments it is expected that each dose e.g. of a composition comprising a poloxamer e.g. administered to a subject to prevent or treat heart disease e.g. caused by diastolic dysfunction comprises between 100 200 mg of poloxamer per kg weight of the subject being treated. In some embodiments each dose comprises between 200 400 mg of poloxamer per kg weight of the subject being treated. In some embodiments each dose comprises between 400 500 mg of poloxamer per kg weight of the subject being treated. In some embodiments each dose comprises 500 2000 mg of poloxamer per kg weight of the subject being treated. In some embodiments each dose comprises less than 100 mg of poloxamer per kg weight of the subject being treated. In some embodiments each dose comprises more than 2000 mg of poloxamer per kg weight of the subject being treated. An optimal amount for a particular administration can be ascertained by standard studies involving observation of diastolic function and other biological responses e.g. blood oxygen saturation in subjects.

In some embodiments it is expected that each dose e.g. of a composition comprising a poloxamer that is administered to a subject e.g. a human subject is by weight 30 poloxamer. However a dose may comprise more or less than this amount of poloxamer. For example in some embodiments a dose may comprise between 30 40 poloxamer by weight. In some embodiments a dose may comprise between 40 50 w w poloxamer. In some embodiments a dose may comprise 50 60 w w poloxamer. In some embodiments a dose may comprise greater than 60 poloxamer by weight.

In some embodiments pharmaceutical preparations comprising a poloxamer are formulated in dosage unit form for ease of administration and uniformity of dosage. Dosage unit form as used herein refers to a physically discrete unit of the pharmaceutical preparation appropriate for the subject undergoing treatment e.g. administration of a composition of the present invention . Each dosage should contain a quantity of the compositions comprising a poloxamer calculated to produce the desired response e.g. increase in diastolic pressure . Procedures for determining the appropriate dosage unit in addition to being described herein are well known to those skilled in the art.

Dosage units may be proportionately increased or decreased based on several factors including but not limited to the weight age and health status of the subject. In addition dosage units may be increased or decreased based on the response of the subject to the treatment e.g. diastolic pressure gains or losses .

In certain embodiments of the invention compositions may further comprise one or more alcohols zinc containing compounds emollients humectants thickening and or gelling agents neutralizing agents and surfactants. Water used in the formulations is preferably deionized water having a neutral pH.

The compositions of the present invention may additionally contain other adjunct components conventionally found in pharmaceutical compositions. Thus for example the compositions may contain additional compatible pharmaceutically active materials such as for example antipruritics astringents local anesthetics or anti inflammatory agents or may contain additional materials useful in physically formulating various dosage forms of the compositions of the present invention such as dyes preservatives antioxidants opacifiers thickening agents and stabilizers. However such materials when added preferably do not unduly interfere with the biological activities of the components of the compositions of the present invention. The formulations can be sterilized and if desired mixed with auxiliary agents e.g. lubricants preservatives stabilizers wetting agents emulsifiers salts for influencing osmotic pressure buffers colorings flavorings and or aromatic substances and the like that do not deleteriously interact with the poloxamer of the formulation.

The present invention also includes methods involving co administration of a composition comprising a poloxamer with one or more additional active agents e.g. agents that are known in the art for treating or preventing heart failure . Indeed it is a further aspect of this invention to provide methods for enhancing prior art treatment methods and or pharmaceutical compositions by co administering a composition of the present invention. In co administration procedures the agents may be administered concurrently or sequentially. In one embodiment the compositions described herein are administered prior to the other active agent s . The pharmaceutical formulations and modes of administration may be any of those described herein. In addition the two or more co administered agents may each be administered using different modes e.g. routes or different formulations. The additional agents to be co administered can be any of the well known agents in the art including but not limited to those that are currently in clinical use.

It is contemplated that the administration of a composition comprising a poloxamer may be co administered with one or more known therapeutic agents for treating heart disease. For example agents that are known in the art for treating heart disease include but are not limited to diuretics e.g. thiazides such as chlorothiazide hydrochlorothiazide and metolazone loop diuretics e.g. ethacrynic acid furosemide torsemide and bumetanide and their congeners potassium sparing agents e.g. spironolactone canrenone triamterene and amiloride and others agents such as metolazone and other quinazoline sulfonamides vasodilators e.g. nitrovasodilators e.g. nitroglycerin isosorbide dinitrate and sodium nitroprusside hydralazine prostacyclin ACE inhibitors e.g. captopril enalapril lisinopril quinapril and ramipril and angiotensin II antagonists e.g. losartan positive inotropic agents e.g. cardiac glycosides e.g. digitalis or digoxin phosphodiesterase inhibitors e.g. amrinone and milrinone beta adrenergic receptor antagonists e.g. beta blockers such as propanolol metoprolol atenolol pindolol acebutolol labetalol carvedilol and celiprolol or combinations of these measures See e.g. Goodman and Gilman Ch. 34 The Pharmacological Basis of Therapeutics McGraw Hill N.Y. 1996 incorporated by reference herein .

Current therapeutic recommendations for the treatment of diastolic heart failure are based on disease oriented evidence including pathophysiology extrapolation of knowledge about other aspects of cardiovascular disease data from small studies and expert opinion. Evidence based guidelines from the American College of Cardiology American Heart Association ACC AHA and the Institute for Clinical Systems Improvement ICSI provide some information regarding treatment regimens See e.g. Hunt et al. Circulation 2001 104 2996 3007 Institute for clinical systems improvements. Health care guidelines. January 2002 1 71 .

For example lifestyle modifications are recommended to reduce the risk of all forms of cardiovascular disease. Measures include weight loss smoking cessation dietary changes and exercise. Identification and treatment of co morbid conditions such as high blood pressure diabetes and hypercholesterolemia are important in reducing the risk of subsequent heart failure.

A composition comprising a poloxamer of the present invention may be co administered with one or more pharmaceutical agents used to treat diastolic heart failure. For example pharmacologic treatment of diastolic heart failure is directed at normalizing blood pressure promoting regression of left ventricular hypertrophy preventing tachycardia treating symptoms of congestion and maintaining atrial contraction See e.g. Hunt et al. Circulation 2001 104 2996 3007 Institute for clinical systems improvements. Health care guidelines. January 2002 1 71 Zile and Brutsaert Circulation 2002 105 1503 8 . Treatment with diuretics and vasodilators often is important to reduce pulmonary congestion. However caution is required to avoid excessive diuresis which can decrease preload and stroke volume. Subjects with diastolic dysfunction are sensitive to volume changes and preload. The potential benefits of beta blockers stem from their ability to decrease heart rate increase diastolic filling time decrease oxygen consumption lower blood pressure and cause regression of left ventricular hypertrophy. One group is evaluating the effect of the beta blocker nebivolol in the treatment of elderly patients with diastolic heart failure See e.g. Shibata et al. Int J Cardiol 2002 86 77 85 . Accordingly in some embodiments a composition comprising a poloxamer P188 is co administered with a diuretic and or a vasodilator and or a beta blocker to a subject in order to treat or prevent heart disease e.g. disease caused by diastolic dysfunction in the subject.

The present invention is not limited by the type of diuretic co administered with a composition comprising a poloxamer of the present invention. Indeed a variety of diuretics can be co administered including but not limited to amiloride MIDAMOR bumetanide BUMEX chlorothiazide DIURIL furosemide LASIX hydrochlorothiazide ESIDRIX indapamide LOZOL and spironolactone ALDACTONE .

Similarly the present invention is not limited by the type of beta blocker co administered with a composition comprising a poloxamer of the present invention. Indeed a variety of beta blockers can be co administered including but not limited to acebutolol SECTRAL atenol TENORMIN betaxolol KERLONE bisoprolol hydrochlorothiazide ZIAC bisoprolol ZEBETA carteolol CARTROL metoprolol LOPRESSOR TOPROL XL nadolol CORGRAD propranolol INDERAL sotolol BETAPACE and timolol BLOCADREN .

The multiple benefits of angiotensin converting enzyme ACE inhibitors in the treatment of cardiovascular disease make these agents promising therapeutic agents for the treatment of heart disease e.g. caused by diastolic dysfunction . ACE inhibitors cause regression of left ventricular hypertrophy decrease blood pressure and prevent and or modify cardiac remodelling. Accordingly in some embodiments a composition comprising a poloxamer e.g. P188 is co administered with an ACE inhibitor to a subject in order to treat or prevent heart disease in the subject e.g. disease caused by diastolic dysfunction .

Examples of ACE inhibitors that find use in the compositions and methods of the present invention include but are not limited to Beecham s BRL 36 378 as disclosed in European patent Nos. 80822 and 60668 Chugai s MC 838 disclosed in CA. 102 72588v and Jap. J. Pharmacol. 40 373 1986 Ciba Geigy s CGS 14824 3 1 ethoxycarbonyl 3 phenyl 1S propyl amino 2 3 4 5 tetrahydro 2 oxo 1 3S benzazepine 1 acetic acid HCl disclosed in U.K. Patent No. 2103614 and CGS 16 617 3 S 1S 5 amino 1 carboxypentyl amino 2 3 4 5 tetrahydro 2 oxo 1H 1 benzazepine 1 ethanoic acid disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 473 575 cetapril alacepril Dainippon disclosed in Eur. Therap. Res. 39 671 1986 40 543 1986 ramipril Hoechst disclosed in Eur. Patent No. 79 022 and Curr. Ther. Res. 40 74 1986 Ru 44570 Hoechst disclosed in Arzneimittelforschung 35 1254 1985 cilazapril Hoffman LaRoche disclosed in J. Cardiovasc. Pharmacol. 9 39 1987 R.sub.O 31 2201 Hoffman LaRoche disclosed in FEBS Lett. 165 201 1984 lisinopril Merck disclosed in Curr. Therap. Res. 37 342 1985 and Eur. patent appl. No. 12 401 indalapril delapril disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 385 051 rentiapril fentiapril Santen disclosed in Clin. Exp. Pharmacol. Physiol. 10 131 1983 indolapril Schering disclosed in J. Cardiovasc. Pharmacol. 5 643 655 1983 spirapril Schering disclosed in Acta. Pharmacol. Toxicol. 59 Supp. 5 173 1986 perindopril Servier disclosed in Eur. J. Clin. Pharmacol. 31 519 1987 quinapril Warner Lambert disclosed in U.S. Pat. No. 4 344 949 and CI 925 Warner Lambert 3S 2 R R 3R 2 2 1 ethoxy carbonyl 3 phenylpropyl amino 1 oxopropyl 1 2 3 4 tetrahydro 6 7 dimethoxy 3 isoquinolinecarboxylic acid HCl disclosed in Pharmacologist 26 243 266 1984 WY 44221 Wyeth disclosed in J. Med. Chem. 26 394 1983 each of which is hereby incorporated by reference in its entirety.

Diastolic heart failure can also be treated with calcium channel blockers e.g. verapamil and diltiazem and beta adrenergic receptor blockers. In cases of pulmonary congestion or ischemia patients may also receive diuretics or nitrates respectively.

Calcium channel antagonists can improve diastolic function directly by attenuating calcium homeostasis or indirectly by reducing blood pressure reducing or preventing myocardial ischemia promoting regression of left ventricular hypertrophy slowing heart rate e.g. using verapamil and or diltiazem and improving left ventricular filling parameters. Accordingly in some embodiments a composition comprising a poloxamer P188 is co administered with a calcium channel blocker e.g. verapamil and diltiazem and or beta adrenergic receptor blocker in order to treat or prevent heart disease e.g. disease caused by diastolic dysfunction in the subject.

Examples of calcium channel blockers include but are not limited to amlodipine NORVASC bepridil VASCOR diltiazem CARDIZEN TIAZAC felodipine PLENDIL nifedipine ADALAT PROCARDIA nimodipine NIMOTOP nisoldipine SULAR and verapamil CALAN ISOPTIN VERELAN 

Verapamil has been shown by objective criteria to improve diastolic function ameliorate symptoms and increase exercise tolerance. In a five week double blind cross over trial conducted in 1990 by J. F. Setaro and colleagues 20 elderly men with isolated diastolic dysfunction were treated with verapamil or placebo. In those receiving the drug symptoms improved exercise time increased 33 peak left ventricular filling rate increased 30 and heart rate decreased 10 p

In some embodiments a composition comprising a poloxamer P188 is co administered with an angiotensin 2 receptor antagonist and or an alpha blocker and or a central alpha agonist and or a statin order to treat or prevent heart disease e.g. disease caused by diastolic dysfunction in the subject.

Examples of angiotensin 2 receptor antagonists that find use in the present invention include but are not limited to candesartan ATACAND eprosartan TEVETEN irbesartan AVAPRO losartan COZAAR telmisartan MICARDIS and valsartan DIOVAN . Examples of alpha blockers that find use in the present invention include but are not limited doxazosin mesylate CARDURA prazosin hydrochloride MINIPRESS prazosin and polythiazide MINIZIDE and terazosin hydrochloride HYTRIN . Examples of central alpha agonists that find use in the present invention include but are not limited to clonidine hydrochloride CATAPRES clonidine hydrochloride and chlorthalidone CLORPRES COMBIPRES Guanabenz Acetate WYTENSIN Guanfacine hydrochloride TENEX Methyldopa ALDOMET Methyldopa and chlorothiazide ALDOCLOR and methyldopa and hydrochlorothiazide ALDORIL . Examples of statins that find use e.g. for co administration with a composition comprising a poloxamer to a subject e.g. in order to treat and or prevent heart disease in the subject in the present invention include but are not limited to atorvastatin LIPITOR fluvastatin LESCOL lovastatin MEVACOR pravastatin PRAVACHOL rosuvastatin calcium CRESTOR and simvastatin ZOCOR .

The following examples are provided in order to demonstrate and further illustrate certain preferred embodiments and aspects of the present invention and are not to be construed as limiting the scope thereof.

Animals. Control C57BL 10 SnJ and mdx C57BL 10 ScSn mdx mice obtained from Jackson Laboratories were maintained in barrier isolation facilities at the University of Michigan. The procedures used in this study were approved by the University of Michigan Committee on the Use and Care of Animals.

Measurement of single cardiac myocyte length tension and intracellular Ca Ca The methods for isolating mouse adult cardiac myocytes have been reported See e.g. Coutu et al. Circ Res 94 1235 41 2004 . Briefly the acutely isolated single myocytes were transferred to an experimental chamber containing a silicon coated glass bottom and platinum electrodes mounted on the sides to electrically stimulate the myocytes which was mounted on the stage of an inverted microscope TE300 Nikon objective 40 . The chamber was kept at 37 C. with a thermoelectric device. Length tension Ca measurement system of membrane intact cardiac myocytes was developed with modifications from a previously reported method See e.g. Yasuda S. I. et al. Am J Physiol Heart Circ Physiol 281 H1442 6 2001 using a pair of microcarbon fibers. One fiber was connected to a sensitive force transducer system 200 mV mg Aurora Scientific Inc. Canada and the other was connected to a piezoelectric translator P 173 PI Polytec to control myocyte length. The carbon fibers used in this study were rigid diameter 40 m compliance 0.02 m N and not altered by the active and passive tensions produced by single cardiac myocytes. Tension signal from the force transducer and length signal applied to the piezoelectric translator were recorded at 1000 Hz sampling rate with an analog to digital recording system Accura 100 Nicolet . Video recordings of the cardiac myocytes were digitized to measure cell extension and sarcomere length via images on a computer screen. For measurement of Ca myocytes were incubated with 5 M Fura 2 acetoxy methyl AM ester Molecular Probes and 0.02 Pluronic F127 Molecular Probes for 4 minutes at 37 C. Fura 2 excitation was sampled at 100 Hz using a microscope based fluorescence spectrometer Photon Technology International . Ca was determined by a previously established method See e.g. Grynkiewicz et al. J Biol Chem 260 3440 50 1985 after subtracting background fluorescence intensity. The effect of P188 0.15 mM in extracellular buffer See e.g. Lee et al. Ann N Y Acad Sci 888 266 73 1999 and nifedipine 1 M on passive tension extension characteristics and Ca of control and mdx single cardiac myocytes was investigated. In another procedure cardiac myocytes were stretched during the rising phase of twitch tension lengthening contraction . Upon restoring SL isometric twitch tension was compared post pre stretch.

In Vivo Cardiac Hemodynamic. Murine pressure volume loops were acquired by methods outlined previously See e.g. Michele et al. Circ Res 91 255 62 2002 . Briefly anesthetized mice were ventilated with 2 isoflourane and 98 oxygen. A thoracotomy and pericardiotomy were performed and pressure volume catheter was inserted into the LV via an apical stab. Prior to catheter insertion mice received an I.V. infusion of 150 l of 10 human albumin with and without P188 at a rate of 200 l kg min. Following the collection of baseline hemodynamic data dobutamine was infused at a dose of 42 g kg min. The dose of P188 460 mg kg was shown to be effective in mitigating skeletal muscle damage following electrocution See e.g. Lee et al. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 89 4524 8 1992 . Acute cardiac failure was defined to occur when LV systolic pressure dropped below 60 mmHg as below this level rapid decompensation and death were frequent occurrences. Following the 30 minute dobutamine challenge or the development of acute cardiac failure volume measurements were calibrated as previously described See e.g. Michele et al. Circ Res 91 255 62 2002 .

The present invention provides a unique micro carbon fiber technique See that enables for the first time the simultaneous assessment of force and intracellular calcium concentrations of isolated membrane intact myocytes under physiologically relevant mechanical loading. Using this technology single membrane intact adult cardiac myocytes from dystrophin deficient mdx and control mice were passively stretched over a physiologically relevant range of sarcomere lengths 1.75 to 2.2 m See e.g. Rodriguez et al. Am J Physiol 263 H293 306 1992 and passive tension and Ca were recorded. shows photomicrographs of control and mdx myocytes at different stages during the stretch protocol. shows representative simultaneous recordings of length tension and Fura 2 ratio of single cardiac myocytes from a control and mdx mouse. In the traces on the left are the active twitch tension and calcium transient during an electrically stimulated isometric contraction at a resting sarcomere length SL of 1.75 1.8 m. Remaining traces are tension and calcium recordings during passive stretching of the myocyte from a resting SL of 1.75 m 0 stretch to a physiologically relevant diastolic SL of 2.0 to 2.2 m 20 stretch .

The results showed that peak isometric twitch tension is not different between control and mdx myocytes 3.6 0.7 and 4.4 0.8 mN mm respectively indicating that excitation contraction coupling and force generation transmission are normal in mdx myocytes. Dystrophin deficiency did however cause significant effects upon passive physiological stretches in myocyte SL length See . With passive excursions from resting SL of 1.8 m to longer SLs mdx myocytes developed significantly increased tension compared to control myocytes See . This is in contrast to previous studies on skeletal myotubes where dystrophic muscles were found to be more compliant than control muscles See e.g. Pasternak et al. J Cell Biol 128 355 61 1995 . Stretches to SL 2.1 m and beyond resulted in mdx myocytes becoming unstable with increased Ca fibrillations eventual calcium overload and subsequent contracture and mytocyte death See . Reducing extracellular Ca from 1.8 to 0.2 mM shifted the tension extension curves rightward permitting stretches up to 2.3 m in both mdx and control myocytes indicating an important role of extracellular calcium in mediating the reduced compliance of mdx myocytes.

Thus the present invention demonstrates a primary defect in cell compliance in single isolated mdx myocytes with increased susceptibility to stretch mediated membrane instability and calcium dependent hyper contracture.

Next it was determined whether a membrane repair approach e.g. a chemical based membrane repair approach would have efficacy in isolated mdx myocytes. The nonionic triblock co polymer Poloxamer 188 P188 poly ethylene oxide poly propylene oxide poly ethylene oxide MW 8400 g mol which was previously shown to insert into artificial lipid monolayers and repair damaged biological membranes See e.g. Wu G. et al. Phys Rev Lett 93 028101 2004 Lee et al. Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 89 4524 8 1992 was assessed for its ability to stabilize mdx myocyte membranes during physiological loading conditions in vitro See . Within the physiologically relevant SL range of 1.8 2.1 m 0.15 mM P188 See e.g. Lee et al. Ann N Y Acad Sci 888 266 73 1999 fully restored mdx myocyte compliance and Ca to control levels See . P188 also significantly improved twitch tension performance after a lengthening contraction. P188 had no effect on C57BL 10 myocyte compliance within this SL range See . The increase in Ca resulting from passive stretch is significantly greater in mdx myocytes and this is corrected by P188.

To further address the mechanism of calcium entry myocytes were treated with the L type Ca channel blocker nifedipine. In contrast to P188 heightened Ca upon SL stretch was not blocked by nifedipine See suggesting elevated Ca may arise from non DHP sensitive channels or more likely from small tears in the membrane that are prevented by P188 in mdx mycoytes.

It was determined whether these cellular effects of P188 to prevent stretch induced membrane instability in mdx cardiac myocytes would translate to preventing cardiac dysfunction in mdx mice in vivo. Baseline left ventricular hemodynamic performance was depressed in mdx mice including reduced left ventricular end diastolic volume LVEDV See Table 1 . Pre treatment by intravenous infusion of P188 increased LVEDV to levels seen in control hearts. It was hypothesized that the lower LVEDV in mdx hearts is an organ level manifestation of the membrane defect observed in single isolated myocytes and that the acute remediation of LVEDV in the mdx heart is a direct effect of P188 to restore normal compliance in single mdx cardiac myocytes See .

Acute cardiomyopathy and failure can be incited by cardiovascular stressors in mdx mice See e.g. Danialou et al. Faseb J 15 1655 7 2001 . Therefore it was tested whether an acute dobutamine stress challenge in vivo would cause acute cardiac failure and if this phenotype could be blocked by P188. Untreated mdx mice had very attenuated response to the dobutamine infusion and a significant incidence of acute cardiac failure See during the 30 minute stress test regime. Pre treatment of mdx animals by intravenous infusion of P188 immediately improved hemodynamic response to dobutamine infusion and conferred protection from dobutamine induced acute heart failure in vivo p 0.005 See .

The effects of P188 on passive tension extension relationships in single membrane intact cardiac myocytes from normal and dystrophic dogs were studied. Studies in isolated ventricular myocytes from dystrophin deficient golden retriever dog model GRMD See e.g. Howell et al. Hum Gene Ther. 1998 9 629 634 animals show that the passive tension extension curve is markedly upward and left ward shifted compared to control dog myocytes See . Thus the present invention provides that the cellular compliance defect noted in cardiac myocytes from the mdx mouse model is much more pronounced in dystrophic myocytes from GRMD dogs.

Next it was determined whether poloxamer treatment e.g. administration of a composition comprising a poloxamer using P188 could improve myocyte function. It was observed that P188 150 M restores cellular compliance and function as manifested in the shape and position of the passive tension extension curve back nearly completely to control normal even in these more severely affected canine myocytes that have pronounced cardiomyopathy. This data demonstrates that the magnitude of the corrective effect resulting from administration of a poloxamer to a dystrophic subject e.g. P188 s effect is comparatively greater in canine dystrophic myocytes as compared to mouse dystrophic myocytes. Thus the present invention demonstrates that single cardiac myocytes from GRMD animals are severely affected in terms of passive mechanical properties and that these passive mechanical defects are corrected and restored by administration of P188.

It was next determined whether P188 would alter the isometric twitch contractile properties of membrane intact single cardiac myocytes from normal and dystrophic dogs. Data generated during the development of the present invention indicates that dystrophin deficiency has a profound effect to slow relaxation performance in single myocytes under physiological load. More importantly administration of a poloxamer P188 acutely corrected this relaxation defect See . Although an understanding of the mechanism is not necessary to practice the present invention and the present invention is not limited to any particular mechanism of action in some embodiments administration of a poloxamer P188 corrects defects of contraction induced membrane instability and consequent Ca entry e.g. calcium overload thereby preventing alteration of mechanical properties e.g. diastolic dysfunction of an intact dystrophic heart e.g. cardiac myocytes and tissue .

All publications and patents mentioned in the above specification are herein incorporated by reference. Various modifications and variations of the described methods of the invention will be apparent to those skilled in the art without departing from the scope and spirit of the invention. Although the invention has been described in connection with specific preferred embodiments it should be understood that the invention as claimed should not be unduly limited to such specific embodiments. Indeed various modifications of the described modes for carrying out the invention that are obvious to those skilled in the relevant fields are intended to be within the scope of the present invention.

