---

title: Water soluble nanocrystalline quantum dots
abstract: An economic, direct synthetic method for producing water soluble QDs that are ready for bioconjugation is provided. The method can produce aqueous QDs with emission wavelengths varying from 400 nm to 700 nm. Highly luminescent metal sulfide (MS) QDs are produced via an aqueous synthesis route. MS QDs are capped with thiol-containing charged molecules in a single step. The resultant MS QDs exhibit the distinctive excitonic photoluminescence desired of QDs and can be fabricated to avoid undesirable broadband emissions at higher wavelengths. This provides a significant improvement over the present complex and expensive commercial processes for the production of QDs. The aqueous QDs are stable in biological fluids over a long period of time. In addition, nontoxic ZnS QDs have been produced with good photoluminescence properties by refluxing the ZnS QD suspensions over a period of time.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=07976819&OS=07976819&RS=07976819
owner: Drexel University
number: 07976819
owner_city: Philadelphia
owner_country: US
publication_date: 20100921
---
This application is continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 12 552 970 filed on Sep. 2 2009 currently pending which in turn is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 968 228 filed on Jan. 2 2008 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 597 870 which in turn is a continuation of U.S. patent application Ser. No. 11 136 653 filed on May 24 2005 now U.S. Pat. No. 7 335 345 which in turn is a nonprovisional of U.S. provisional patent application No. 60 573 804 filed on May 24 2004 the entireties of which are incorporated herein by reference.

This invention was reduced to practice with Government support under R01 EB00720 01 awarded by NIH the government is therefore entitled to certain rights to this invention.

The present invention relates to the aqueous synthesis of photoluminescent nanocrystalline quantum dots.

Semiconductor nanocrystalline quantum dots QDs with bioconjugates on the surface have been studied extensively because of their unique optical properties. QDs are inorganic nanoparticles that emit light at a specific wavelength when excited by light. When light shines on QDs electrons in the valence band are excited to the conduction band forming short lived nanoseconds electron hole pairs called excitons which emit photons of a specific wavelength when the electron hole pairs eventually recombine. The excitonic emission is independent of the wavelength of the excitation light. This makes it easier to excite QDs to luminescence than the traditional fluorescent molecules that require a specific excitation wavelength. The wavelength of the emitted photons of QDs on the other hand is specific and can be controlled by the QDs particle size and composition. The synthesis of QDs was developed mostly in the 1990 s. In the last few years the interest in using QDs in biomedical imaging has exploded due to advances in surface modification of QDs that have made them accessible for antibody immobilization and detection of antibody antigen binding.

Using QDs as imaging markers inside living organisms is one of the exciting new nanobiotechnologies. QDs can be used as biological markers to find a disease as well as to carry a drug to the exact cell that needs it by immobilizing antibodies on the surface of the QDs. QDs may be specific to a particular disease and may be tailored to bind only to infected cells. Detection may be carried out either by locating the QDs particles or by detecting signals emanating from the QDs particles. For example luminescence of antibody coated QDs bound to the cancerous tissue in a mouse helped locate the tumor.Until now the main biological tags that have been employed are organic fluorophores or radioactive labels.Radioactive labels are short lived and radioactive. Concerns about the use of radioactive materials in the body always arise. Organic fluorophores have wide emission spectra and the emission is not as bright as that of QDs. In comparison to conventional dye molecules QDs have the advantages of having tunable fluorescence signatures narrow emission spectra brighter emissions and good photostability.Due to the enormous interest in using QDs as biological tags QDs are now commercially available from quite a number of companies. However the complexity of the existing organic based synthesis route for fabricating commercial QDs makes the price prohibitively high as much as U.S. 1200 g without bio conjugation and 3200 mg for bioconjugated QDs.Part of the complexity of the existing QDs production technology stems from the need to improve the photoluminescence yield by eliminating the broadband emission of earlier QDs by capping with an inorganic layer. Making QDs water soluble is another challenge for biomedical applications.

Both groups II VI nanocrystals such as CdSe CdTe CdS ZnS and ZnSe and groups III V nanocrystals such as InP and InAs have been synthesized and studied extensively in the past.One type of quantum dot currently on the market is based on CdSe nanocrystals capped by for example ZnS. The synthesis follows the method popularized by Bawendi s group at MIT involving the pyrolysis of organometallic precursors dimethylcadmium and trioctylphosphine oxide TOPO to form CdSe nanocrystals. ZnS capping on CdSe was done using diethylzinc and hexamethyldisilathiane precursors.

Alivisatos and coworkers further made QDs water soluble by addition of a silica siloxane coating.With a silica coating 3 mercaptopropyl trimethoxysilane MPS is then adsorbed on the nanocrystals and displaces the TOPO molecules making the surface of the QDs suitable for antibody immobilization.These processes are complex involving multiple steps and a change of solvent from organic to aqueous during the process.

An aqueous process for the manufacture of CdS QDs was published recently using adenosine triphosphate ATP as the capping molecule.This process suffers from the disadvantage that the luminescence spectrum of the resultant CdS QDs includes an undesirable non excitonic broadband emission between 500 nm to 700 nm wavelength.

Rogach et al.describes the synthesis of oxidation stable CdTe nanoclusters in aqueous solution using 2 mercaptoethanol and 1 thioglycerol as stabilizers. CdTe nanocrystals generally have no luminescent properties until they are stabilized with 2 mercaptoethanol. However this capping method also yields QDs with an undesirable broadband emission at higher wavelengths. Similarly when CdTe was stabilized with thioglycerol a broadband emission at higher wavelengths was also observed. Currently only the capping of inorganic materials for example a ZnSe shell on CdTe core can eliminate the undesirable broadband emission. Thus there remains a need for an economic direct aqueous synthesis route for the production of highly luminescent water soluble nanocrystalline QDs.

In one aspect the present invention relates to a process for the production of QDs in aqueous media which are ready for bioconjugation. In another aspect the present invention relates to quantum dots made by the process. These quantum dots are ready for bioconjugation and may exhibit improved emission spectra relative to other QDs fabricated in aqueous media.

In a first aspect the present invention relates to an economic direct synthetic method for producing water soluble QDs that are ready for bioconjugation. Highly luminescent metal sulfide MS QDs are produced via an aqueous synthesis route. The resultant MS QDs may then be capped with carboxylated molecules in a single step. The capped MS QDs generally exhibit the distinctive excitonic photoluminescence desired of QDs without the undesirable broadband emission at higher wavelengths often present in other QDs fabricated in aqueous media indicating that the aqueous process of the present invention is effective in producing the substantially clean MS surface that appears to be necessary for a high luminescence yield. This is significant because as far as the inventors are aware no known aqueous method has completely eliminated the tendency for the QDs to exhibit an undesirable broadband emission at higher wavelengths.

Furthermore the carboxylated molecules used to cap the particle surface of the MS QDs render the MS QDs ready for surface immobilization of antibodies and other biomolecules. That the surface of the MS QDs is immediately ready for further biological modification in a single step also represents a significant advantage over the manufacture of QDs by other methods. This results in substantially reduced material costs. In addition to the economic benefits and the potential impact on fundamental research in the field of surface chemistry the aqueous processing route of the present invention is environmentally friendly and readily adapted to commercial production levels.

In general the manufacturing process of the present invention may be applied to fabricate QDs from water soluble precursors. Thus any QDs that can be made from water soluble precursors are within the scope of the present invention.

In the manufacturing process of the present invention any salt of a metal suitable for use in a quantum dot that is soluble in water may be employed as a starting material. Exemplary water soluble metal salts that may be employed in the invention are metals that can form sulfides such as Cd NO Cd ClO CdCl CdSO cadmium acetate Zn NO Zn ClO ZnSO ZnCl zinc acetate Mn NO Mn ClO MnSO MnCl manganese acetate Pb NO Pb ClO PbSO PbCl and lead acetate.

Any suitable water soluble sulfide may be used as a reactant in the process of the invention. Exemplary water soluble sulfides that may be employed in the invention are sulfides such as CdS NaS ZnS and PbS. Also sulfide gases such as HS may be bubbled through the aqueous solution in the process of the invention. The addition of sulfide is preferably done gradually such as by titration with stiffing and may take for example about 2 hours. Generally it is desirable to use about a stoichiometric amount of the sulfide. However varying the amount of sulfide from a stoichiometric amount can in some cases produce desirable variations in the particle sizes of the particles in the QDs and thus it may be useful to use anywhere from 0.1 to 10 times the stoichiometric amount of sulfide more preferably 0.5 to 5 times the stoichiometric amount of the sulfide and most preferably about 0.8 1.2 times the stoichiometric amount of the sulfide. The stoichiometric amount is based on the reaction of the sulfide with the metal to form the metal sulfide.

Also thiol functionalized molecule with a charged group preferably on the opposite end may be used as a reactant in the process of the invention as long as the thiol functionalized molecule is water soluble. Thiol functionalized molecules containing an amino group for use in the present invention include 4 aminothiophenol. Thiol functionalized molecules containing a silane group includemercaptosilanes such as 3 mercaptopropyltrimethoxysilane and similar materials. Thiol functionalized molecules containing a carboxyl group as well as carboxyl group containing capping means are mercaptoacetic acid mercaptopropionic acid mercaptosuccinic acid and mercaptobenzoic acid. Any concentration of thiol functionalized molecule may be employed as long as it is within the solubility limit of the thiol functionalized molecule in aqueous media.

The ratio of the various reactants is not critical and in fact may be varied in order to customize the particle size of the resultant capped QDs. In generally however the molar ratio of thiol groups to metal may vary from about 1 to about 100 though ratios of 1 5 are more preferred with a ratio of about 2 being most preferred.

In one embodiment of the invention highly luminescent CdS QDs that are capped with mercaptocarboxylic acids MCA in a single step are synthesized. Fluorescence results indicate that the CdS QDs exhibit bright fluorescence in the visible range from blue to red as exemplified in . In the emissions of CdS QDs synthesized by the method of the present invention are shown. These emissions exhibit different fluorescent colors when excited by a 365 nm UV lamp. Any water soluble Cd salt may be used including but not limited to cadmium nitrate cadmium acetate cadmium chloride cadmium hydroxide and cadmium sulfate. The molar ratios between the MCA and Cd may vary from about 1 to about 100. More preferably the molar ratio between the MCA and the Cd is from about 1.5 to about 3 and most preferably about 2.

One advantage of certain embodiments of the present invention is the elimination of the broadband emission of the resultant QDs. A second advantage of certain embodiments of the invention is that a one step aqueous process produces QDs capped with COO which can readily be activated to form a peptide bond with an amine group of a protein i.e. is ready for antibody receptor immobilization on the QD surface. A typical reaction time for the step of chelating Cd with MCA is about 12 hours though the reaction time may vary depending on the specific reactants and reaction conditions employed. It will be understood by those of ordinary skill in the art that reaction times and conversion rates are not critical to the process of the present invention.

In a more preferred aspect CdS QDs are synthesized using 3 mercaptopropionic acid HSCHCHCOOH MPA cadmium nitrate Cd NO and sodium sulfide NaS . For biological applications such as biomarkers where antibodies need to be conjugated to the QDs aqueous suspensions of QDs are most desirable since the conjugation process can be accomplished directly in the aqueous suspension without further preparative steps. However precipitates may be produced for shipping or other reasons. Such precipitates can be reconstituted before use if desirable.

In another aspect a capping molecule capable of chelating with Cd ions to minimize the formation of impurity states due to dangling Cd ions is required. These capping molecules should as act to stabilize and limit the growth of the particles. 3 mercaptopropionic acid HSCHCHCOOH MPA is preferred as the capping molecule because it has a thiol group that can bind to Cd. This follows the example of synthesizing monodispersed gold suspensions using sodium citrate.Citrate not only reduces the gold but also serves as the capping molecule to stabilize the gold particles. By varying the ratio of citrate to gold gold particle size is controlled.Without being bound by theory MPA may play a similar role to cap and stabilize CdS particles in the QDs.

Occasionally difficulties may arise during the reaction if the pH of the reaction mixture is in the vicinity of the isoelectric point IEP of the solution. Thus in such cases it may be desirable to adjust the pH of the reaction mixture away from the IEP using a suitable water soluble pH adjusting agent before the addition of sodium sulfide. One example of a suitable pH adjusting agent is ammonium hydroxide. The concentration of the pH adjusting agent may be varied as necessary to produce optimum results. Preferred concentrations of ammonium hydroxide are in the range of about 0.5 2 M and more preferably about 0.8 1.2 M with about 1 M being the most preferred concentration of the ammonium hydroxide pH adjusting agent.

After adjustment of the pH away from the IEP of the metal sulfide sodium sulfide is added quickly to minimize the reaction time. A few minutes of reaction time is sufficient. The process is best performed in oxygen free environment to avoid the photo oxidation reaction of sulfur. To prevent particle growth the reacted solution is quenched to freezing point of water and then stored in refrigerator.

1.6 10mol Cd NO 1.6 10mol NaS and 3.2 10mol MPA respectively were prepared and each was dissolved into about 33 ml deionized water with stirring. The Cd NO solution was added to the MPA solution at 2 ml min with continuous stiffing. NHOH 1 M was added to the mixed solution to adjust the pH value to a pH of about 7 9. The NaS solution was then quickly poured into the mixed solution and stirred for about 3 5 min. All of the above process steps were performed in an oxygen free environment. In the present example these steps were performed in a sealed glove bag pumped with nitrogen flow. An ultrasonicator was used to apply sonication for about 5 10 min. Large agglomerates were removed by filtration as necessary. CdS nanoparticles were obtained in a clear suspension. The suspension was quenched in a freezer to 0 C. and the suspension was stored in a refrigerator at about 4 C.

The procedure was the same as in the example I except that the chemical precursor Cd NO was replaced by Zn NO . After the ZnS QDs were prepared the suspension was refluxed at 100 C. for several hours to help improve the photoluminescence properties.

0.8 10mol Cd NO and 0.8 10mol Zn NO respectively were prepared and each dissolved into 16 ml deionized water with stiffing. 1.6 10mol NaS and 3.2 10mol MPA respectively were weighed and each dissolved into 33 ml deionized water with stirring. The Cd NO solution was added into the MPA solution and then the Zn NO solution was added into MPA solution at about 2 ml min with continuous stirring. Thereafter the process described in Example I was followed. The CdS with ZnS doping 1 1 QDs are obtained as a clear suspension. Other doping ratios can be employed by adjusting the Cd to Zn molar ratio.

To obtain the quantum yield of the aqueous CdS QDs Rhodamine 101 was used as the standard sample and the commercial QDs were compared. All the measurements were performed at the same conditions for Rhodamine 101 for the commercial EviTags CdSe ZnS QDs and for the aqueous CdS QDs of the present invention. For each sample the absorbance and integrated photoluminescence PL intensity were collected at a fixed excitation wavelength 365 nm for several different concentrations. The absorbance was always kept below 0.15 to eliminate the re absorption interaction effect. Using Rhodamine 101 dissolved in ethanol as the standard sample with known quantum yield of 100 the quantum yield of EviTags CdSe ZnS QDs was found to 8.9 and the quantum yield of the aqueous CdS QDs was 6.0 . Without the core shell structure the aqueous CdS QDs have achieved high quantum yield comparable to that of the commercially available EviTags . shows integrated photoluminescence intensity vs. absorbance for Rhodamine 101 EviTags CdSe ZnS QDs and aqueous CdS QDs.

It was found that the PL properties of the aqueous QDs depend on the precursor concentration. For the samples synthesized at different Cd precursor concentrations of from 0.1 mM to 6.4 mM the emission spectra varied. There was no linear relationship between the PL intensity of CdS QDs and the precursor concentration. shows the normalized PL intensity of aqueous QDs for several precursor concentrations. After normalization based on the concentration the QDs with the lowest precursor concentration displayed the highest PL intensity. It is speculated that at high precursor concentration not all precursor was nucleated and grown into particles. Perhaps the excess precursors remained in the solution and didn t contribute to the PL intensity.

The CdS QDs suspension obtained using a precursor concentration of 1.6 mM was mixed at a volume ratio of 1 3 with de ionized water phosphate buffer solution PBS 1 and cytosol 10cells ml respectively. shows the PL intensity of aqueous QDs in the three solutions for up to 26 days during which the samples were stored in the refrigerator at 4 C. away from normal daylight. The samples were taken out of the refrigerator for PL measurements on the designated days. It was shown that the aqueous CdS QDs have good stability with de ionized water PBS and cytosol. The results indicate that the aqueous QDs can be used as excellent fluorescence markers in biological solutions for biomedical imaging over a long period of time due to their stability.

ZnS was added to the CdS QDs to create different wavelengths of photoluminescence. shows the PL intensity of ZnS doped CdS QDs at several different ZnS contents. As the concentration of ZnS increases the PL peak shifts toward smaller wavelengths. However the PL intensity also decreases with increasing amount of ZnS.

Pure ZnS QDs were synthesized as a candidate for nontoxic quantum dots. Zn is not harmful to the human body and thus ZnS would be suitable for an in vivo study. Refluxing the ZnS QD suspensions can increase the PL intensity as shown in . Refluxing for too long is detrimental resulting in agglomerated QDs. For 1.6 mM ZnS QDs refluxing for 16 hrs gave the best intensity.

It is to be understood however that even though numerous characteristics and advantages of the present invention have been set forth in the foregoing description together with details of the structure and function of the invention the disclosure is illustrative only and changes may be made in detail especially in matters of shape size and arrangement of parts within the principles of the invention to the full extent indicated by the broad general meaning of the terms in which the appended claims are expressed.

