---

title: Compositions containing mixtures of fermentable fibers
abstract: The present invention relates to synergistic compositions comprising mixtures of fermentable fibers. The present invention specifically relates to composition comprising inulin and arabinoxylan for use in reducing, preventing and/or treating inflammation, wherein said arabinoxylan is partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan and wherein the ratio of said inulin to said arabinoxylan and/or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan is between 65%/35% by weight and 90%/10% by weight.
url: http://patft.uspto.gov/netacgi/nph-Parser?Sect1=PTO2&Sect2=HITOFF&p=1&u=%2Fnetahtml%2FPTO%2Fsearch-adv.htm&r=1&f=G&l=50&d=PALL&S1=09364538&OS=09364538&RS=09364538
owner: COSUCRA-GROUPE WARCOING SA
number: 09364538
owner_city: Warcoing
owner_country: BE
publication_date: 20100818
---
This application is the U.S. National Phase under 35 U.S.C. 371 of International Application PCT EP2010 062039 filed Aug. 18 2010 which claims priority to EP Application No. 09290632.0 filed Aug. 18 2009.

The present invention relates to compositions comprising fermentable fibers for preventing reducing and or treating inflammation. More in particular the present invention relates to synergistic combinations of linear and branched fermentable fibers for modulating the inflammatory response of animals and humans following an immune challenge.

Inflammation is a complex biological response to harmful stimuli such as pathogens damaged cells or irritants. The inflammatory response is an attempt by the body to restore and maintain homeostasis after invasion by an infectious agent antigen challenge or physical chemical or traumatic damage. Localized inflammation is contained in a specific region and can exhibit varying symptoms including redness swelling heat and pain. While the inflammatory response is generally considered a healthy response to injury the immune system can present an undesirable physiological response if it is not appropriately regulated. In this situation the body s normally protective immune system causes damage to its own tissue by treating healthy tissue as if it is infected or abnormal. Alternatively if there is an injury the inflammatory response may be out of proportion with the threat causing the injury. When this occurs the inflammatory response can cause more damage to the body than the agent itself would have produced.

The inflammatory response has been found in part to consist of an increased expression of both pro inflammatory and anti inflammatory cytokines. Cytokines are low molecular weight biologically active proteins involved in the coordination of immunological and inflammatory responses and communication between specific immune cell populations. A number of cell types produce cytokines during inflammatory reactions including neutrophils monocytes and lymphocytes. Multiple mechanisms exist by which cytokines generated at inflammatory sites influence the inflammatory response. If a proinflammatory response is not successfully countered by anti inflammatory cytokines however uncontrolled systemic inflammation can occur. In contrast to localized inflammation systemic inflammation is widespread throughout the body. This type of inflammation may include localized inflammation at specific sites but may also be associated with general flu like symptoms including fever chills fatigue or loss of energy headaches loss of appetite and muscle stiffness. Systemic inflammation can lead to protein degradation catabolism and hypermetabolism. As a consequence the structure and function of essential organs such as muscle heart immune system and liver may be compromised and can contribute to multi organ failure and mortality.

Although enormous progress has been achieved in understanding the mechanisms of systemic inflammation the mortality rate due to this disorder remains unacceptably high.

There is therefore still a need to develop compositions having improved physiological and or pharmacological and or therapeutic activities for the prevention and or treatment of inflammation. It is accordingly one of the objects of the present invention to overcome or ameliorate at least one of the disadvantages of the prior art or to provide a useful alternative.

The present inventors surprisingly found that inulin and arabinoxylan in particular a combination of inulin and partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan AXOS synergistically reduce prevent and or treat inflammation in particular systemic inflammation.

Therefore the present invention concerns a composition comprising inulin and arabinoxylan for reducing treating and or preventing inflammation in particular systemic inflammation. In particular the present invention concerns a composition comprising inulin and arabinoxylan for use in reducing preventing and or treating inflammation wherein said arabinoxylan is partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan and wherein the ratio of said inulin to said arabinoxylan and or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan is between 65 35 by weight and 90 10 by weight.

The present inventors have found that the present composition synergistically attenuate at the same time the elevation of pro inflammatory cytokines such as TNF IL 1 IL 8 IL 12 IFN and the suppression of anti inflammatory cytokines such as IL 10 IL 4 IL 13 following harmful stimuli such as a challenge with lipopolysaccharide LPS . The present composition comprising inulin and arabinoxylan or AXOS has therefore the advantage of improving resistance to stress inflammation and or immune challenge in humans and animals. The present invention therefore also concerns a composition comprising inulin and arabinoxylan and or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan for attenuating at the same time the elevation increase of pro inflammatory cytokines and the suppression of anti inflammatory cytokines following a challenge with LPS. In particular the present invention also concerns a composition comprising inulin and arabinoxylan for use in attenuating at the same time the elevation increase of pro inflammatory cytokines and the suppression of anti inflammatory cytokines following a challenge with LPS wherein said arabinoxylan is partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan and wherein the ratio of said inulin to said arabinoxylan and or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan is between 65 35 by weight and 90 10 by weight.

The present composition was also found to be able to reduce LPS concentration in the blood and therefore can be used to reduce LPS concentrations or levels in the blood. LPS can contribute to the initiation and development of inflammation insulin resistance and or fat storage. Therefore the present invention offers great potential in the fight against obesity metabolic syndrome and or type 2 diabetes. Therefore the present invention also concerns a composition comprising inulin and arabinoxylan and or AXOS for preventing treating and or attenuating obesity metabolic syndrome and or type 2 diabetes. In particular the present invention also concerns a composition comprising inulin and arabinoxylan and or AXOS for use in preventing treating and or attenuating obesity metabolic syndrome and or type 2 diabetes wherein said arabinoxylan is partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan and wherein the ratio of said inulin to said arabinoxylan and or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan is between 65 35 by weight and 90 10 by weight.

Another aspect of the invention also concerns a composition comprising inulin and arabinoxylan wherein the ratio inulin arabinoxylan is ranging between 65 35 by weight and 95 5 by weight. In particular the present invention also concerns a composition comprising inulin and arabinoxylan and or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan wherein the ratio of said inulin to said arabinoxylan and or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan is between 65 35 by weight and 90 10 by weight. The present invention also concerns the use of said composition as a prebiotic.

The present invention also encompasses a food or beverage product or a food supplement comprising between 0.1 and 10 g of a composition according the present invention per serving of the said food or beverage product or food supplement.

The present invention also contemplates the use of a composition according to the present invention as a food additive in the production of a food or beverage product or a food supplement which comprises between 0.1 and 10 g of said composition per serving of the said food or beverage product or food supplement.

The present invention will now be further described. In the following passages different aspects of the invention are defined in more detail. Each aspect so defined may be combined with any other aspect or aspects unless clearly indicated to the contrary. In particular any feature indicated as being preferred or advantageous may be combined with any other feature or features indicated as being preferred or advantageous.

Thus the present invention concerns a composition comprising inulin and arabinoxylan for reducing preventing and or treating inflammation. In one embodiment said inflammation is systemic inflammation. The present invention preferably concerns a composition comprising inulin and arabinoxylan wherein said arabinoxylan is partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan and wherein the ratio of said inulin to said arabinoxylan and or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan is between 65 35 by weight and 90 10 by weight for use in reducing preventing and or treating inflammation.

Reference throughout this specification to one embodiment or an embodiment means that a particular feature structure or characteristic described in connection with the embodiment is included in at least one embodiment of the present invention. Thus appearances of the phrases in one embodiment or in an embodiment in various places throughout this specification are not necessarily all referring to the same embodiment but may. Furthermore the particular features structures or characteristics may be combined in any suitable manner as would be apparent to a person skilled in the art from this disclosure in one or more embodiments. Furthermore while some embodiments described herein include some but not other features included in other embodiments combinations of features of different embodiments are meant to be within the scope of the invention and form different embodiments as would be understood by those in the art. For example in the following claims any of the claimed embodiments can be used in any combination.

As used in the specification and the appended claims the singular forms a an and the include plural referents unless the context clearly dictates otherwise. By way of example an arabinoxylan oligosaccharide means one arabinoxylan oligosaccharide or more than one arabinoxylan oligosaccharide.

As used herein the terms about and approximately when referring to a measurable value such as a parameter an amount a temporal duration and the like is meant to encompass variations of and from the specified value in particular variations of 10 or less preferably 5 or less more preferably 1 or less and still more preferably 0.1 or less of and from the specified value insofar such variations are appropriate to perform in the disclosed invention. It is to be understood that the value to which the modifier about or approximately refers is itself also specifically and preferably disclosed.

As used herein the term monosaccharide refers to a single sugar unit which is the building block of oligo and polysaccharides. Non limiting examples of monosaccharide include glucose fructose xylose arabinose galactose mannose and the like.

As used herein the term carbohydrate refers to a polyhydroxy aldehyde aldose or ketone ketose or to a substance which yields one or more of these substances by hydrolysis.

As used herein the terms degree of polymerization or DP relates to the number of monosaccharide residues present in an oligo or polysaccharide. Often also the parameter average degree of polymerization is used. The degree of polymerization is a measure of molecular weight MW . The DP can be calculated as the ratio of the total MW of the polymer or oligomer and the MW of the repeating units.

The average degree of polymerization av DP of a polydispersed oligo or polysaccharide mixture is the mean of the degree of polymerization DP of all the molecules present in this saccharide mixture. The average degree of polymerization can be calculated based on the number of molecules for each DP av DP 1 or average degree of polymerization by number or based on the weight of the molecules for each DP av DP 2 . In the present patent application unless otherwise specified the average degree of polymerization is considered to be the av DPand can be calculated as described herein.

As used herein the term polysaccharide refers to a carbohydrate composed of a large number DP 20 of monosaccharides that are linked by glycosidic linkages. Non limiting examples of naturally occurring polysaccharides are plant cell wall polysaccharides such as cellulose pectins arabinans arabans arabinoxylans xylans arabinogalactans xyloglucans betaglucans or other polysaccharides like starches galactomannans mannans arabinogalactans and fructans.

As used herein the term oligosaccharide refers to a carbohydrate composed of a limited number of monosaccharides that are linked by glycosidic linkages the DP generally ranging from 2 to 20. Non limiting examples of naturally occurring oligosaccharides are saccharose cellobiose raffinose xylo oligosaccharides fructo oligosaccharides and galacto oligosaccharides.

As used herein the term fermentable fibers refer to a mixture of non digestible oligosaccharides and or non digestible polysaccharides i.e. that escape digestion and or absorption in the upper digestive tract of humans mainly due to the configuration of their osidic bonds. They thus arrive in the large intestine where they can be partially or totally fermented by the endogenous microflora. This fermentation process generates gases and or short chain fatty acids like for instance acetate propionate and butyrate.

As used herein the term cereals refer to cereal plants including but not limited to wheat oat rye barley sorghum maize rice millet sorghum and triticale.

As used herein the term prebiotic refers to a non digestible food ingredient that beneficially affects the host by selectively stimulating the growth and or activity of one or a limited number of bacteria in the colon and thus improves host health. Gibson Roberfroid 1995 125 1401 1412. .

As used herein the term prebiotic effect refers to the selective stimulation of the growth and or activity of one or a limited number of bacteria in the colon thus improving host health. An example of a suitable marker for a prebiotic effect is the selective stimulation of Bifidobacteria and or Lactobacilli. Non limiting examples of the improvement of the health of an individual include the alleviation of constipation improving gut health improving mineral absorption improving lipid metabolism and or improving satiety. In the context of the two latter definitions host has to be understood as a human being or an animal.

The term host individual or subject as used herein includes inter alia a subject patient target host or recipient regardless of whether the individual is a human or non human animal including avian species. The term host individual or subject therefore includes a human non human primate e.g. gorilla marmoset African Green Monkey livestock animal e.g. sheep cow pig horse donkey goat laboratory test animal e.g. rat mouse rabbit guinea pig hamster companion animal e.g. dog cat captive wild animal e.g. fox deer game animals and avian species including poultry birds e.g. chickens ducks geese turkeys . The preferred individual however is a human. However insofar as the present invention extends to an animal model the individual may be a mouse rat pig sheep non human primate or other non human animal.

As used herein the term food additive refers to an ingredient additive component or supplement suitable for incorporation in human or animal food.

As used herein the term functional food additive refers to an ingredient additive component or supplement suitable for incorporation in human or animal food conferring a technical nutritional and or health benefit to the host like for example a prebiotic effect and or another nutritional health benefit closely related to the selective stimulation of some colonic bacteria such as for the alleviation of constipation for an improved gut health for an improved mineral absorption an improved lipid metabolism and a better regulation of glycemia insulinemia or improved satiety. The functional food additive can be added to different types of food comprising but not limited to functional food dietetic food and food supplements.

As used herein the term arabinoxylan refers to a mixture of polysaccharides and or oligosaccharides of xylose units linked by beta 1 4 bonds. The xylose units can be substituted to varying extents on O 2 and or O 3 by arabinose units. Arabinoxylans are thus branched fibers. Ferulic acid galactose and or glucuronic acid may also be present in the structure. Arabinoxylan is also classified as a hemicellulose.

In an embodiment said arabinoxylan may comprise or consist of partial hydrolysis products of arabinoxylan herein referred to as partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan. As used herein the terms partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan or AXOS refer to a mixture of poly and or oligosaccharides of xylose units linked by beta 1 4 bonds and substituted to varying extents on O 2 and or O 3 by arabinose units. Ferulic acid galactose and or glucuronic acid may also be present in the structure. The term partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan is meant to have the same meaning as AXOS . Both terms are used herein interchangeably.

Suitable methods for the preparation of and partial hydrolysis of arabinoxylan to partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan comprise the partial hydrolysis of the arabinoxylan by chemical for example using acids or alkali agents enzymatic physical heat pressure or mechanical ball milling wet milling treatment before or after starch removal if applicable and further purification removal of most of the proteins ashes and other impurities . . . by standard techniques known by the person skilled in the art in order to obtain a product containing at least 50 calculated as 0.88 multiplied by the sum of arabinose and xylose content after complete acid hydrolysis of partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan on dry matter. The end product can be a liquid or a powder. In an embodiment said arabinoxylan is partially hydrolyzed by endoxylanase under appropriate conditions.

As used herein the term degree of substitution for the arabinoxylan refers to the ratio of arabinose to xylose subunits in arabinoxylan and or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan. The term degree of substitution for the arabinoxylan is used interchangeably with A X ratio or arabinose xylose ratio . The A X ratio can be calculated by measuring by HPLC the content of arabinose and xylose in the analyzed sample of arabinoxylan after complete hydrolysis of the arabinoxylan under hot hydrofluoric acid or sulfuric acid conditions for example a 1 M sulfuric acid concentration during 1 hour at 100 C. .

As used herein the term inulin refers to a mixture of oligo and or polysaccharides of fructose which may have a terminal glucose. Inulins belong to a class of fibers known as fructans. In an embodiment Inulin can be represented depending from the terminal carbohydrate unit by the general formulae GFn and Fm wherein G represents a glucose unit F represents a fructose unit n is an integer representing the number of fructose units linked to the terminal glucose unit and m is an integer representing the number of fructose units linked to each other in the carbohydrate chain. Inulins for use in the present invention encompasses inulins with a terminal glucose which are also referred as alpha D glucopyranosyk beta D fructofuranosyl n 1 D fructofuranosides as well as inulins without glucose which are also referred as beta D fructopyranosyl D fructofuranosyl n 1 D fructofuranosides. Inulins for use in the present invention can also encompass the hydrolysis products of inulins such as oligofructoses which are fructose oligomers with a degree of polymerization DP of 20 and they can also encompass fructose oligomers ending with a terminal glucose with a DP of 3 5 synthesized from saccharose. Suitable oligosaccharide chains of inulin from plant origin for use in the invention can have a degree of polymerization DP ranging from 3 to about 100. Inulin can be a liquid or a powder product.

As used herein the term short chain fatty acids or SOFA refers a sub group of fatty acids with aliphatic tails of less than six carbons. They include but are not limited to acetic acid propionic acid isobutyric acid butyric acid isovaleric acid valeric acid caproic acid lactic acid and succinic acid.

As used herein the term inflammation refers to the complex biological response of vascular tissues to harmful stimuli such as pathogens damaged cells or irritants. Inflammation can be classified as either acute or chronic. Acute inflammation is the initial response of the body to harmful stimuli and is achieved by the increased movement of plasma and leukocytes from the blood into the injured tissues. A cascade of biochemical events propagates and matures the inflammatory response involving the local vascular system the immune system and various cells within the injured tissue. Prolonged inflammation known as chronic inflammation leads to a progressive shift in the type of cells which are present at the site of inflammation and is characterized by simultaneous destruction and healing of the tissue from the inflammatory process. Although the processes involved are identical to local or tissue inflammation systemic inflammation or SI is not confined to a particular tissue but involves the endothelium and other organ systems. Systemic inflammation is the result of release of pro inflammatory cytokines from immune related cells and the chronic activation of the innate immune system. As used herein the term systemic means affecting the entire body. According to the present invention conditions associated with systemic inflammation are selected from the group comprising insulin resistance atherosclerosis ischemic heart disease strokes metabolic syndrome obesity type 2 diabetes autoimmune disorders including rheumatoid arthritis and lupus allergic disorders including allergic rhinitis allergic conjunctivitis asthma eczema urticaria contact dermatitis systemic allergic response anaphylaxis infections like kidney or bladder infections gall bladder infection chronic tonsillitis diverticular disease acute or chronic infectious or parasitic processes with exception for intestinal infections or intestinal parasitic processes including viral bacterial or fungal infection Gram negative sepsis endotoxin induced shock systemic inflammatory response syndrome SIRS or multiple organ dysfunction syndrome. In an embodiment said systemic inflammation is caused by conditions selected from the group comprising acute or chronic infectious or parasitic processes including viral bacterial or fungal infection Gram negative sepsis endotoxin induced shock. In a preferred embodiment said systemic inflammation is caused by conditions selected from insulin resistance obesity metabolic syndrome and or type 2 diabetes preferably obesity.

An example of local inflammation in opposition with systemic infection is gastrointestinal inflammation such as diarrhea inflammatory bowel disease Crohn s disease enterocolitis ulcerative colitis allergic colitis irritable bowel syndrome pouchitis post infection colitis associated diarrhea Rotavirus associated diarrhea or post infective diarrhea or diarrheal disease due to an infectious agent such as

As used herein the term lipopolysaccharide LPS is a component of the gram negative bacterial cell wall which can be responsible for initiating a series of highly complex cascading events leading to damage in multiple organs including liver and lung. LPS can contribute to the initiation and development of inflammation insulin resistance and fat storage.

As used herein the expression refers to by weight expressed on dry matter . The can be calculated on the total composition according to the present invention. Alternatively the can be calculated from the ratio between two or more compounds of a mixture.

The present invention relates to a composition comprising inulin and arabinoxylan and its use for preventing reducing and or treating inflammation for example systemic inflammation. As used herein the term comprising means that the composition contains at least inulin and arabinoxylan. Additional compounds ingredients products may or may not be present in such composition. Non limiting examples of additional ingredients include other fermentable fibers carbohydrates proteins fats minerals vitamins. In a particular embodiment the composition of the present invention may also comprise arabinogalactan peptides.

As such the invention also encompasses a composition consisting of inulin and arabinoxylan and its use for preventing reducing and or treating inflammation preferably systemic inflammation. Preferably the present composition is used for preventing reducing and or treating systemic inflammation. The present invention therefore also concerns the use of a composition comprising inulin and arabinoxylan for the preparation of a food or a medicament for preventing reducing and or treating inflammation preferably for preventing reducing and or treating systemic inflammation. The present invention also concerns a method for preventing reducing and or treating inflammation or systemic inflammation comprising the administration of a physiologically or therapeutically effective amount of a composition comprising inulin and arabinoxylan in an individual in need thereof.

As used herein the term therapeutically effective amount of said above described composition relates to the amount or quantity of said composition required to achieve the desired therapeutic and or prophylactic effect. Effective amounts may be measured and expressed in g day.

As used herein the term physiologically effective amount of said above described composition relates to the amount or quantity of said composition required to achieve the desired physiological effect. Effective amounts may be measured and expressed in g day.

The inventors surprisingly found that inulin and arabinoxylan have synergistic effects in reducing preventing and or treating inflammation in particular systemic inflammation. In a particular embodiment the present invention provides a composition comprising inulin and arabinoxylan wherein said inulin and arabinoxylan are present in synergistic amounts. In an embodiment conditions associated with systemic inflammation are selected from the group comprising acute or chronic infectious or parasitic processes including viral bacterial or fungal infection Gram negative sepsis and endotoxin induced shock. In another embodiment conditions associated with systemic inflammation are selected from the group comprising insulin resistance obesity metabolic syndrome and or type 2 diabetes. The compositions therefore offer great potential to better resist stress inflammation and or immune challenge for animals and humans. In particular the present inventors have found that a composition comprising inulin and arabinoxylan synergistically attenuate at the same time the elevation of pro inflammatory cytokines such as TNF IL1 IL8 IL12 IFN and the suppression of anti inflammatory cytokines such as IL10 IL4 IL13 following a challenge with LPS. The challenge with LPS can result from certain gram negative bacteria which are naturally present in the gut or which are introduced at a certain point and cause an infection. Alternatively the source of LPS may be external for instance ingestion of contaminated food. Whereas local i.e. in the gut or systemic i.e. in the blood LPS suppresses anti inflammatory cytokines and promotes pro inflammatory cytokines the present compositions reverse at least partially this situation or prevent at least partially this situation.

As used herein the term synergism or synergy refers to two or more agents working together to produce a result not obtainable by any of the agents independently. This term is used to describe a situation where different entities cooperate advantageously for a final outcome. As used herein the terms synergistic amounts or synergetic amounts refer to amounts of inulin and arabinoxylan which together achieve a more pronounced effect than each alone or may even achieve an effect greater than for the sum of each alone.

The inventors also found that a composition comprising inulin and arabinoxylan can synergistically reduce the concentration of LPS in the blood and thus can reduce systemic inflammation. Reducing inflammation offers great potential in the fight against the prevention of the reduction of and or the treatment of obesity metabolic syndrome and or type 2 diabetes. The invention therefore also relates to a composition comprising inulin and arabinoxylan for the reduction prevention and or treatment of obesity metabolic syndrome and or type 2 diabetes. The present invention also encompasses a composition comprising inulin and arabinoxylan and or AXOS for use in preventing treating and or attenuating insulin resistance obesity metabolic syndrome and or type 2 diabetes preferably for preventing treating and or attenuating obesity wherein said arabinoxylan is partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan and wherein the ratio of said inulin to said arabinoxylan and or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan is between 65 35 by weight and 90 10 by weight. The invention also concerns the use of a composition comprising inulin and arabinoxylan for the preparation of a food a food supplement or a medicament for reducing treating and or preventing obesity metabolic syndrome and or type 2 diabetes. The invention also encompasses a method for the reduction prevention and or treatment of obesity metabolic syndrome and or type 2 diabetes comprising the administration of a physiologically or therapeutically effective amount of a composition comprising inulin and arabinoxylan to an individual in need thereof.

The inventors also found that a composition comprising inulin and arabinoxylan in particular inulin and arabinoxylan in a ratio inulin arabinoxylan between 65 35 by weight and 95 5 by weight preferably between 65 35 by weight and 90 10 by weight synergistically stimulates the production of short chain fatty acids SOFA in particular propionate and butyrate. The inventors also found that a composition comprising inulin and arabinoxylan in particular inulin and arabinoxylan in a ratio inulin arabinoxylan between 65 35 by weight and 95 5 by weight preferably between 65 35 by weight and 90 10 by weight synergistically reduces the adipose tissue weight. The present invention therefore also concerns the composition per se and also the use of a composition comprising inulin and arabinoxylan as a food additive as a functional food additive and or as a prebiotic.

In an embodiment the arabinoxylan for use in the present invention can comprise partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan. The average DP by number of suitable arabinoxylan and or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan for use in the present composition is preferably below 50 for example between 2 and 50 for example between 5 and 50 for example between 2 and 40 for example between 5 and 40 for example between 2 and 30 for example between 5 and 30 for example between 10 and 30 for example between 15 and 30 for example between 20 and 30 for example between 2 and 20 for example between 5 and 20 for example between 5 and 15 for example between 2 and 15. In another embodiment the average DP by number of suitable arabinoxylan for use in the present composition is preferably between 5 and 40 and even more preferably between 20 and 40.

In an embodiment the arabinoxylan for use in the present invention contains more than 10 by weight of molecules with a DP 100.

In an particular embodiment the arabinoxylan and or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan for use in the present composition has an average molecular weight MW below 400 kilo Dalton kDa for example between 400 Dalton Da and 400 kDa for example between 400 Da and 300 kDa for example between 400 Da and 200 kDa for example between 400 Da and 7 kDa and for example between 400 Da and 4 kDa.

In an particular embodiment the arabinoxylan and or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan for use in the present composition has an average degree of substitution of at least 0.05 for example 0.06 0.07 0.08 0.09 0.10 0.11 0.12 0.13 0.14 0.15 0.16 0.17 0.18 0.19 preferably of at least 0.2 for example at least 0.3 for example at least 0.4 for example at least 0.5 for example between 0.5 and 0.9 for example of at least 0.6 for example between 0.1 and 1.2 for example between 0.1 and 0.9 for example between 0.2 and 0.9 for example between 0.2 and 0.5 for example between 0.25 and 0.35.

In an particular embodiment the inulin for use in the present composition has an average DP by number below 50 for example between 2 and 50 for example between 2 and 40 for example between 2 and 30 for example between 5 and 30 for example between 5 and 20 for example between 5 and 15 and for example about 10.

In an particular embodiment the present composition comprises at least 65 of inulin by weight for example at least 70 by weight for example at least 80 by weight for example at least 90 by weight for example 73 by weight for example at least 74 by weight and for example about 75 by weight.

In an particular embodiment the present composition comprises at least 5 of arabinoxylan and or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan by weight for example at least 10 of arabinoxylan and or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan by weight for example at least 15 arabinoxylan and or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan by weight for example at least 20 arabinoxylan and or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan by weight for example at least 30 arabinoxylan and or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan by weight for example about 35 arabinoxylan and or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan by weight for example at least 23 arabinoxylan and or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan by weight and for example about 25 arabinoxylan and or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan by weight.

In a further embodiment the ratio of inulin to arabinoxylan and or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan in the present composition can range between 65 35 by weight and 90 10 by weight for example between 65 35 by weight and 85 15 by weight for example between 70 30 by weight and 80 20 by weight for example between 73 27 by weight and 77 23 by weight for example about 80 20 by weight and for example about 75 25 by weight.

In an embodiment inulin for use in the composition can originate from or be isolated or obtained from any natural source of inulin known to date or can be enzymatically synthesized from saccharose or can be a commercially available inulin. In an embodiment inulin originates from or is isolated from elecampane dandelion dahlia wild yam artichoke Jerusalem artichokes chicory jicama burdock onion garlic agave yac n banana leek asparagus or camas. In an embodiment inulin is a largely linear fiber. Preferably inulin originates from or is isolated from chicory or Jerusalem artichokes. Suitable commercial inulin for use in the invention can be selected from the group comprising Fibruline Instant Fibruline XL Fibruline DS Fibruline S2 Fibrulose F97 . . . Cosucra Groupe Warcoing Belgium Frutafit IQ Frutafit HD Frutafit TEX Frutafit CLR Frutafit L90 Frutafit L85 . . . Sensus the Netherlands Orafti ST Orafti GR Orafti LGI Orafti HSI Orafti P95 Orafti L85 Orafti L60 Orafti synergyl Orafti HP . . . Beneo Orafti Belgium Actilight 950P Actilight 950S Actilight 850S . . . Syral France .

In a preferred embodiment inulin for use in the composition originates from chicory or Jerusalem artichokes and has an average DP between 6 and 25.

In an embodiment said arabinoxylan and or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan for use in the composition can originate from or be isolated or obtained from any natural source of arabinoxylan or can be commercially available arabinoxylan. In an embodiment said arabinoxylan and or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan originates from or is isolated from plants preferably from cereals or peas. For example suitable arabinoxylan and or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan can originate from or can be isolated from wheat rye barley maize pea or oat and preferably said arabinoxylan and or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan originates from or is isolated from wheat. For example said arabinoxylan and or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan originates from or is isolated from wheat bran. For example said arabinoxylan and or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan originates from or is isolated from the side stream of a wet starch gluten separation process. Suitable commercial partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan products for use in the invention can be for instance Opti flor DF3 SAS France and Xylooligo 95P Suntory Japan .

The composition according to the present invention can be useful for providing a technical nutritional and or health benefit to an individual in need thereof. Said composition can be used for the selective stimulation of the growth and or activity of the gastro intestinal microflora. In a further embodiment said composition can also be used for the alleviation of constipation for weight management gut health for improving mineral absorption for improving lipid metabolism and or for a better regulation of glycemia insulinemia. The present composition can also be used for the reduction of the risk of heart disease type 2 diabetes obesity and or metabolic syndrome immunomodulation cancer prevention positive impact on hepatic encephalopathy inflammation reduction. The present composition is also particularly useful for improving satiety.

The composition according to the invention can be supplemented to food for instance to functional food dietetic food and or food supplements as a food additive in particular a functional food additive. The present invention also encompasses a method for preparing a food product or beverage or food supplement comprising the steps of a providing a composition according to the present invention and b formulating said composition into a food product a feed product a beverage or a supplement.

The present invention also concerns a food product containing the composition according to the present invention as well as a feed product containing the same composition a beverage containing the same and a food supplement containing the same.

The composition of the invention may be used as a food additive in the production of a food or beverage or as a basis for a food supplement. In an embodiment the food or beverage or supplement comprises between 0.1 and 10 g of the composition according to the present invention per serving of said food or beverage or supplement. The present invention also encompasses the food or beverage or supplement comprising between 0.1 and 10 g of the composition according to the present invention per serving of said food or beverage or supplement for use in reducing preventing and or treating inflammation. In a preferred embodiment the food or beverage or supplement comprises between 0.5 and 5 g of the composition according to the present invention per serving of said food or beverage or supplement. In an even more preferred embodiment the food or beverage or supplement comprises between 1 and 4 g of the composition according to the present invention per serving of said food or beverage or supplement.

For pharmaceutical use the compositions of the invention may be formulated as a pharmaceutical preparation comprising inulin and arabinoxylan and or partially hydrolyzed arabinoxylan and at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier diluent or excipient and or adjuvant and optionally one or more further pharmaceutically active compounds. Such a formulation may be in a form suitable for oral administration.

In an embodiment the present composition can optionally be combined with at least one pharmaceutically acceptable carrier for oral administration. When combined with a carrier the weight percent of the carrier on the total composition can be between 1 and 85 . Typical carriers are food and water. If soluble fiber is used the combination of an aqueous carrier and the fiber will be a solution. If insoluble fiber is used the combination of an aqueous carrier and the fiber will be a suspension. The compositions can include an inert diluent or an edible carrier. They may be enclosed in gelatin capsules or compressed into tablets. For the purpose of oral therapeutic administration the composition can be incorporated with excipients and used in the form of tablets troches suppositories or capsules. Pharmaceutically compatible binding agents and or adjuvant materials can be included as part of the composition. The tablets pills capsules troches and the like can contain any of the following ingredients or compounds of a similar nature a binder such as microcrystalline cellulose gum tragacanth or gelatin an excipient such as starch or lactose a disintegrating agent such as alginic acid Primogel or corn starch a lubricant such as magnesium stearate or Sterotes a glidant such as colloidal silicon dioxide a sweetening agent such as sucrose or saccharin or a flavoring agent such as peppermint methyl salicylate or orange flavoring. When the dosage unit form is a capsule it can contain in addition to material of the above type a liquid carrier such as a fatty oil. In addition dosage unit forms can contain various other materials which modify the physical form of the dosage unit for example coatings of sugar shellac or other enteric agents. The composition can be administered as a component of an elixir suspension syrup wafer chewing gum or the like. A syrup may contain in addition to the active compounds sucrose as a sweetening agent and certain preservatives dyes and colorings and flavors. The composition can also be mixed with other active materials which do not impair the desired action or with materials that supplement the desired action.

The pharmaceutical preparations are preferably in a unit dosage form and may be suitably packaged for example in a box blister vial bottle sachet ampoule or in any other suitable single dose or multi dose holder or container which may be properly labeled optionally with one or more leaflets containing product information and or instructions for use.

The present composition will generally be administered in an effective amount which upon suitable administration is sufficient to achieve the desired physiological therapeutic and or prophylactic effect in the individual to which it is administered. It is to be further understood that for any particular subject specific dosage regimens should be adjusted over time according to the individual need and the professional judgment of the person administering or supervising the administration of the compositions and that the dosage ranges set forth herein are exemplary only and are not intended to limit the scope or practice of the composition.

The invention will now be illustrated by means of the following examples which do not limit the scope of the invention in any way.

The inulin source used in this trial was Fibruline Instant COSUCRA Groupe Warcoing Belgium which is a chicory inulin with a DP ranging from 2 to 60 and an average DP by number of about 10. Fibruline Instant was a powder with a dry matter of 96 and contained on dry matter 90 of inulin.

The AXOS source used in this experiment was Opti flor DF3 SAS France and was obtained from purification of the side stream of a wheat starch producing factory using a three phase decanter for the separation of the two main streams starch and gluten. This side stream was purified in order to eliminate most of the starch proteins minerals and fats arabinoxylan was partially hydrolyzed by means of an endoxylanase and the reaction mixture was concentrated and spray dried. The obtained AXOS sample a powder was characterized by a dry matter of 95 an AXOS content of 80 calculated as 0.88 multiplied by the sum of arabinose and xylose content after complete acid hydrolysis on dry matter an average DP of around 25 calculated as the DP dividing the surface under the chromatographic high performance size exclusion HPSEC molecular mass distribution curve by a vertical line in two equal parts and an A X ratio of about 0.75. 60 of the molecular weight of the AXOS sample was between 1000 and 40000 Da corresponding to a DP between 7 and about 300.

Sixty healthy volunteers 26 men and 34 women with an average age of 20 2 years old with a stable weight and a body mass index BMI between 18.5 and 27 kg m2 21 on average participated in the experiment. Exclusion criteria were a serious pathological condition gastrointestinal vesicular or pancreatic diseases antibiotic or laxative treatment during the last 6 months before the study chirurgical intestinal intervention during the last 12 months preceding the study intolerance to orange juice diarrhea constipation or chronic or recurrent abdominal pain regular intake of medication known to affect gastro intestinal pancreatic or vascular function recent gastroenteritis diabetes regular consumption of foods or food supplements enriched in pre or probiotics during the month preceding the study. Subjects gave written informed consent to the protocol which was approved by the Committee of protection of persons Nord Ouest IV in France.

A double blind randomized parallel placebo controlled design was applied. The volunteers were randomly assigned to three groups that were homogenous with regard to age and BMI. After a period of 2 weeks of dietary stabilization for a period of 4 weeks the volunteers ingested daily two servings of a mixture of 1.5 g inulin 0.5 g AXOS and 0.5 g maltodextrins inulin AXOS mixture group 2.5 g AXOS AXOS group or 2.5 g of maltodextrins placebo group dispersed in 125 ml orange juice.

Three day diet records were performed at the beginning and at the end of the four week intervention period in order to calculate total calorie intake and the intake of carbohydrates fiber fat and proteins.

Stools and fasting blood samples were collected twice on the first day of the four week intervention period i.e. after 2 weeks of dietary stabilization V1 and after four weeks of products ingestion V2 . Stool samples were collected in plastic containers and immediately stored at 4 C. during maximum 12 h before SCFA extraction and the aliquot necessary for s IgA was stored at 80 C.

Venous blood samples were immediately sampled for cytokines analyses and the rest of the samples were centrifuged and plasma was collected and stored at 80 C.

1 ml aliquots of heparinated blood in beads containing tubes was incubated with 100 l of an LPS solution 0.2 ng l . These aliquots were incubated during 6 and 24 h at 37 C. with moderate agitation. One duplicate of a placebo group blood sample was incubated without LPS. After 6 or 24 h according to cytokines activation kinetics 0.5 ml of blood sample was mixed in 1.3 ml RNAlater solution and extracted after 3 days.

RNA extraction was performed by using the Ribopure bloodkit Applied Biosystems according to manufacturer s directions. Recombinant DNA was prepared with 1 g of RNA using the Quantitect Reverse Transcriptase kit QIAGEN according to manufacturer s directions. The expression of cytokines was analyzed with 200 ng of recombinant DNA by amplification by RT PCR Sybr Green according to manufacturer s Applied Biosystems instructions with gene primers of TNF alpha IFN gamma IL1 beta IL 2 IL 4 IL 5 IL 8 IL 10 IL 12 and IL 13. The threshold amplification cycles were normalized for each sample towards GAPDH housekeeping gene and the relative expression was expressed as a difference of the expression in a LPS challenged sample to the expression in a control placebo without LPS challenge. These analyses were made using the software program REST MCS version 2 Pfaffl et al. 2001. Nucleic acids Research 29 2002 2007 and according to the formula target ref wherein R Relative expression E target cytokine expression E ref GAPDH expression Cptarget MEAN control MEAN sample Amplification difference between control and sample for the cytokine Cpref MEAN control MEAN sample Amplification difference between control and sample for the GAPDH.

Only for TNF alpha and IL 10 the expression was measured at V1 and V2. For all the other cytokines the expression was measured only at V2.

Short chain fatty acids SOFA concentrations of fecal samples were analyzed after water extraction of fecal samples 2 g in 5 ml deionized water centrifugation 4500 g 5 min and acidification 2M sulfuric acid of the supernatant to a pH of 2 using gas chromatography GC Hewlet Packard 5890 FID . The GC was equipped with a free fatty acid packed column FFAP WCOT CP 7614 SGE analytical science 25 m 0.53 mm film thickness 1 m and a flame ionization detector. Nitrogen was used as carrier gas with a P of 5 psi. The injector and detector temperature were set at 240 and 280 C. respectively. Concentrations of SOFA were calculated based on standards with known concentrations of the different acids. 4 methyl 2 hydroxy pentanon was used as an internal standard. SCFAs were expressed as g g dry matter of fecal sample.

Fecal secretory IgA concentrations in stool samples taken after 4 weeks of products ingestion were measured with an ELISA kit sIgA ELISA Kit K8870 Immunodiagnostik after washing with a buffer according to manufacturer s indications. Values were expressed as g ml fecal water.

LPS concentrations in blood samples taken after 4 weeks of products ingestion were measured by the LAL chromogenic endpoint assay HIT302 Hycult according to manufacturer s indications after dilution 1 5 in endotoxin free water and 5 min incubation at 75 C. in order to denature protein before reaction. Values were expressed as EU ml.

Statistical univariate analyses were performed using non parametrical tests such as Mann Whitney or Wilcoxon or a parametrical t student test. The Pearson correlation test was used for bivariate analyses.

The three day diet records showed that all three study groups were homogenous with regard to macronutrient intake and that those intakes did not differ significantly between the beginning and the end of the four week intervention period. Total fiber intake not taking into account the fiber content of the test products was 12.21 3.18 g day for the placebo group 12.08 2.64 for the AXOS group and 11.60 3.44 g day for the inulin AXOS mixture group.

Concentrations of fecal SCFA were affected by the different treatments . AXOS induced a reduction of acetate concentrations p 0.01 associated with an increase in butyrate concentrations p

After four weeks of products ingestion fecal secretory IgA levels were stable for the AXOS group and almost 70 higher for the inulin AXOS mixture group than for the placebo group . Fecal secretory IgA are immunoglobulins secreted by the intestinal mucus layer and these molecules are markers of an improved protection of the colonic mucosa against infectious diseases and opportunistic bacteria.

At the end of the four weeks intervention V2 blood samples were taken and the blood was challenged ex vivo with lipopolysaccharides LPS . Results of relative expression of pro inflammatory cytokines TNF alpha IL1 beta IL 8 IL 12 IFN gamma and anti inflammatory cytokines IL 10 IL 4 IL 13 are shown in . These results showed that as compared to the placebo group the stimulation of pro inflammatory cytokines by LPS had a tendency to be attenuated for the AXOS group and even more for the inulin AXOS mixture group. The attenuation of IL1 beta expression reached statistical significance p 0.045 only for the inulin AXOS mixture group. Furthermore the relative expression of TNF alpha was significantly reduced by 50 p 0.014 between V1 and V2 in the inulin AXOS mixture group which was not the case for the control results not shown . On the other hand the suppression of anti inflammatory cytokines by LPS was also attenuated for the fiber groups especially for the inulin AXOS mixture group. A strongly significant effect p 0.01 was observed for IL 13 for the inulin AXOS mixture group. Also the relative expression of IL 10 was increased by 55 p 0.064 between V1 and V2 in the inulin AXOS mixture group which was not the case for the control and AXOS groups results not shown . IL 2 and IL 5 were not modulated by LPS challenge results not shown . The expression of TNF alpha and IL 10 following an LPS challenge and measured the beginning of the intervention period V1 showed no significant differences between the three intervention groups at V1 results not shown . In summary the presented results indicate that the mixture of inulin and AXOS could counter at least partially the inflammatory response following an immune challenge such as LPS .

The results also showed that the circulating LPS in the blood samples of the volunteers at the end of the four week intervention period before LPS challenge was 30 lower p 0.03 for the inulin AXOS mixture group than for to the placebo group. LPS is a component of the gram negative bacterial cell wall which can be responsible for initiating a series of highly complex cascading events leading to damage in multiple organs including liver and lung. LPS can contribute to the initiation and development of inflammation insulin resistance and fat storage. The obtained results thus indicate a significant reduction of the risk of systemic inflammation and endotoxemia for a mixture of inulin and AXOS. This effect was not observed for the AXOS group.

In conclusion the significantly reduced circulating LPS blood levels together with the modulation of the pro and anti inflammatory cytokine balance following an ex vivo LPS challenge support the potential of a synergistic mixture comprising inulin and AXOS in reducing preventing and or treating inflammation. Corroborating this anti inflammatory effect of such a mixture are significantly increased fecal butyrate and fecal secretory IgA concentrations.

The inulin source used in this example was Fibruline Instant COSUCRA Groupe Warcoing Belgium as characterized in example 1. The AXOS source used in this experiment was Opti flor DF3 SAS France and was obtained from purification of the side stream of a wheat starch producing factory using a three phase decanter for the separation of the two main streams starch and gluten. This side stream was purified in order to eliminate most of the starch proteins minerals and fats arabinoxylan was partially hydrolyzed by means of an endoxylanase and the mixture was concentrated and spray dried. The obtained AXOS sample a powder was characterized by a dry matter of 96 an AXOS content of 85 calculated as 0.88 multiplied by the sum of arabinose and xylose content after complete acid hydrolysis on dry matter an average DP of around 37 calculated as the DP dividing the surface under the chromatographic high performance size exclusion HPSEC molecular mass distribution curve by a vertical line in two equal parts and an A X ratio of about 0.75.

The different test substances were inulin AXOS and three mixtures of inulin and AXOS with weight proportions of inulin AXOS of 90 10 75 25 and 50 50 .

A silicone cannula was implanted in the cecum of four Landrace Pi train sows with an initial weight of 30 to 35 kg. The animals were individually housed and were fed on average 2 kg of a commercial diet Aliment Porc 2 R gal SCAR Herve Belgium per day. Drinking water was provided ad libitum. The cecal samples collection started after an adaptation period of 3 weeks.

An in vitro model described by Bindelle et al 2007 Animal feed Science and Technology 132 111 122 was used.

The inoculum used for fermentation was composed of two principal elements a buffer solution composed of salts and minerals Menke K. H. Steingass H. 1988. Anim. Res. Dev. 28 7 55 and the cecal contents sampled from the cannulated pigs. The buffer was kept under anaerobic conditions by CObubbling until filling the syringes and the cecal contents were diluted 20 times in the buffer solution. The cecal content was collected by means of a plastic bag attached to the end of the cannula during about 30 minutes. The content was mixed with 150 to 200 ml buffer solution and the mixture was filtered on a metallic filter 250 m mesh screen after mechanical pummelling Stomacher Lab Blender 400 Seward Medical Norfolk UK of the bags during 60 s.

For each series three samples of 200 mg of each test substance were placed at the end of a 100 ml Kolbenprober glass syringe. The syringes were than closed and preheated during 24 h in an incubator at 39 C. 30 ml of inoculum was than added to the syringes. The initial volume was read at the moment of placing the syringes in the incubator. For each series three syringes only containing inoculum blanks were used to quantify the gas production induced by the inoculum in absence of substrate.

The volumes of gas released in the syringes were recorded every hour during the first eight hours of incubation and after 14 24 48 72 and 96 hours. At each reading the syringes were re homogenized by agitation. The volume of gas produced was calculated in function of the initial inoculum in the syringe and the amount of test product added to the syringe. This volume was corrected in function of the quantity of gas produced in the blanks syringes for each reading. The corrected production of gas is than expressed per g of test substance.

For this experiment the syringes were prepared as described before. The fermentation of each test substance was stopped at the half time of asymptotic gas production T 2 estimated in the preceding step. At T 2 the syringes were put in an ice bath for at least 20 min. The content of each syringe was than collected in a 50 ml falcon tube the syringes were rinsed with 2 volumes of 50 ml deionized water and this rinsing water was added to the falcon tube. The mixture was centrifuged at 12000 g during 20 min at 4 C. 5 ml of supernatant of each syringe was removed and cumulated per test substance in a falcon tube of 15 ml. The excess supernatant was discarded. The supernatant and sediment samples were than frozen at 20 C. The analysis and dosage of short chain fatty acids in the supernatant were performed by HPLC according to Bindelle et al 2007 Animal 18 1126 1133 . The results were expressed as mM g dry matter of the test substance.

The sediment samples were lyophilized in order to determine the non degraded dry matter of each test substance for each sample.

Gas production was modeled for each syringe according to the mathematical model of France et al 1993. J. Theor. Biol. 163 99 111 . In this way among others T 2 expressed in hours could be calculated.

Statistical analysis of the parameters was performed by means of analysis of variance and a classification of means by the Least Squares Means method using the MIXED procedure of the SAS 8.02 software SAS Inc. Carry N.C. USA .

An in vitro model described by Bindelle et al 2007 Animal feed Science and Technology 132 111 122 was used to assess in vitro fermentation by pig intestinal contents of inulin AXOS and different mixtures of inulin and AXOS.

The results are shown in . Inulin and AXOS and the different inulin AXOS mixtures were all well fermented and generated the production of SOFA. When inulin and AXOS were combined in weight proportions of 90 10 75 125 or 50 50 respectively synergistic effects of all three mixtures on the production of SOFA and particularly on propionate and butyrate were obtained.

HPSEC was performed on a HPLC system HPLC Waters 2690 Alliance Milford USA equipped with autoinjection. All preparations were dissolved in distilled water filtered and injected 100 l on a gel permeation Progel TSK Supelco G3000 column Sigma Aldrich St. Louis USA 300 7.8 mm separation range 1 10exp2 5 10exp5 Da . Elution was done with a solution of NaNO3 50 mM and 0.05 NaN3 in distilled water 0.7 ml min 30 C. and monitored with a refractive index detector Model 2410 Waters Corporation Milford USA . Molecular mass markers were dextrans with a molecular mass of 1000 Da 5000 Da and 12000 Da and 50000 Da this last standard only for The HPSEC molecular mass distribution profiles of the AXOS samples are shown in .

The inulin preparation used in this trial was Fibruline Instant COSUCRA Groupe Warcoing Belgium which is a chicory inulin with a DP ranging from 2 to 60 and an average DP by number of about 10. Fibruline Instant was a powder with a dry matter of 96 and contained on dry matter 90 of inulin.

The AXOS source used in this experiment was obtained from wheat bran. Destarched bran was suspended in demineralised water to obtain a total dry matter of 10 then adjustment of pH to 6.0 was achieved by sulphuric acid partial hydrolysis of arabinoxylans was obtained in a thermostatized vessel at 50 C. under continuous stirring during 15 hours after addition of an endoxylanase. Then the enzyme was inactivated by boiling the suspension for 5 minutes. The supernatant containing solubilised material was then separated by filtration and further clarified by centrifugation. Demineralization of the clarified effluent was obtained on a couple of ion exchangers strong cation weak anion . After vacuum concentration at pH 4.5 the obtained syrup was dried by lyophilisation. The obtained AXOS preparation a powder was characterized by a dry matter of 96 an AXOS content of 66 calculated as 0.88 multiplied by the sum of arabinose and xylose content after complete acid hydrolysis on dry matter an average DP of around 6 calculated as the DP dividing the surface under the chromatographic high performance size exclusion HPSEC molecular mass distribution curve by a vertical line in two equal parts and an A X ratio of about 0.38

The ovariectomized rat model was chosen as a model of physiological hormonal deficiency modeling biological alterations in women linked to menopause impacting lipid metabolism oxidative stress inflammation status and bone health.

In order to further induce metabolic perturbations and systemic inflammation a western type pro inflammatory obesigenic diet was used.

Female rats were randomly allocated to 9 groups of 8 rats and fed one of the semipurified diets. A basic diet was used as well as a western type pro inflammatory obesigenic test diet Table 1 that had 1 a high lipid content 15 with a ratio of fatty acids n 6 n 3 35 and 28 saturated fatty acids and with an insufficient content of vitamin E of normal needs 2 15 saccharose 3 18 proteins casein and 4 a relative deficiency in minerals 0.5 calcium and 0.05 magnesium . Inulin preparation 7.5 AXOS preparation 7.5 or a mixture of inulin preparation 5.625 and AXOS preparation 1.875 was substituted for an equal amount of starch in the obesigenic test diet.

Rats were either sham operated SH or surgically ovariectomized OVX under anesthesia using Imalgen 1000 Merial Lyon France 0.75 ml kg body weight and Vetranquil 1 Ceva sant animale Libourne France 0.25 ml kg body weight administered intraperitoneally. In the sham procedure the ovaries were exteriorized and replaced to create a stress similar to that obtained with bilateral ovariectomy.

The experimental study was conducted on Wistar rats aged 6 months 8 per group and the experiment continued for 3 months. The animals were housed individually in wire cages in a module maintained at 22 C. and subjected to 12 h 12 h light dark cycles. They had free access to water and the daily quantity of food distributed was 21 g to prevent overeating consecutive to ovariectomy. The study was conducted in accordance with the regional Ethics Committee France .

The efficacy of inulin and AXOS alone or in a combination of 80 inulin 20 AXOS was tested in ovariectomized rats fed a western type obesigenic diet test diet . These experimental conditions were compared to two more protective conditions 1 a basic diet rich in micronutriments and with an equilibrated level of macronutrients and 2 sham operated animals.

At sacrifice at the end of the 3 month intervention period animals fasted for 12 h were anaesthetized by intraperitoneal injection as previously described. The blood from the abdominal aorta was collected either on gel clotted activator Sarstedt or EDTA tubes and immediately centrifuged 4 C. 5 min 3500 g . The serum and plasma samples were then frozen at 20 C. until use for different analyses. The subcutaneous and abdominal adipose tissues as well as the muscles tibialis anterior and soleus were removed and weighed.

On the animals sacrificed at the end of the study 3 months serum leptin was analyzed LINCORIA kit Millipore SAS Molsheim France and high sensitivity C Reactive Protein was assessed in plasma EDTA on a Konelab20 automat Thermo Electro Corporation Vantaa Finland using a colorimetric method.

The results are expressed as means SEM. The significance of differences among treatments was determined by two way ANOVA analysis XLSTAT Addinsoft followed by a Fisher LSD test. Values were considered as significant at p

As expected food consumption was significantly lower in sham operated animals compared to ovariectomized ones p

The obesigenic test diet led to higher weight than the basic diet for both the sham operated and ovariectomized rats . All ovariectomized rats developed higher weight gains than the sham operated rats indicating that ovariectomy induces certain metabolic changes. Addition of AXOS and or inulin to the test diet reduced weight gain in sham and ovariectomized rats. The greatest inhibition of weight gain was obtained with the mixture of inulin and AXOS although not significant in ovariectomized rats at the end of the study .

When analyzing body composition more in detail more specifically adipose and muscles tissues differences became even more pronounced as explained below.

Adipose tissue is an active endocrine organ involved in metabolic syndrome and regulation of inflammation. Two different types of adipose tissue were analyzed subcutaneous adipose tissue and visceral adipose tissue. As observed for total weight the obesigenic test diet led to higher subcutaneous and visceral adipose tissue weight than the basic diet for both the sham operated and ovariectomized rats . The ovariectomization in itself significantly increased the subcutaneous adipose tissue but had less impact on the visceral adipose tissue. Addition of inulin and AXOS alone or in combination to the test diet reduced subcutaneous and visceral adipose tissue weight in the ovariectomized rats but this reduction became statistically significant only for the mixture of inulin and AXOS obtaining adipose tissue weights comparable to the basic diet. Also in the sham operated rats the fibers added to the test diet significantly reduced the adipose tissue weights.

Also two different types of muscle mass were analyzed tibialis anterior and soleus muscles. Ovariectomization in itself did not greatly impact the tibialis anterior muscle mass but the obesigenic diet significantly reduced this muscle mass in both sham operated and ovariectomized rats . The addition of inulin or AXOS to the test diet increased tibialis anterior muscle mass as compared to the test diet however these increases were not statistically significant. Only the inulin AXOS mixture significantly increased muscle mass as compared to the test diet both in sham operated and ovariectomized rats thereby restoring the muscle mass obtained with the basic more protective diet . Similar observations were made for the soleus muscle mass although level of significance was not reached.

The increased adipose tissue weights and the reduced muscle weights as a result of ovariectomization and or the obesigenic test diet suggest an increased inflammatory status. The observed reduction of adipose tissue weight and concomitant increase of muscle weight for inulin AXOS and especially the inulin AXOS mixture could reflect an anti inflammatory effect of these fibers.

Leptin is a key adipokine involved in regulating food intake and body weight but in a fasting state would mainly reflect adiposity. The level of leptin analyzed in a fasting state can be considered as a marker of inflammation. Elevated leptin levels in blood circulation are correlated with increased inflammation in obese individuals with cardiovascular complications.

The obesigenic test diet had a huge impact on this parameter more than doubling the level both in sham operated and ovariectomized rats . Ovariectomy in itself also increased leptin levels. The addition of inulin to the test diet did not impact significantly the leptin level in the ovariectomized rats. The addition of AXOS and especially the inulin AXOS mixture however significantly reduced leptin levels to the original levels obtained with the basic diet in sham operated rats. The effect was not significant in ovariectomized rats receiving the inulin AXOS mixture. Leptin levels were found to be strongly correlated to the visceral adipose tissue weights R 0.571 p

C reactive protein CRP is a marker of inflammation. It is synthesized by the liver. Serum levels of inflammatory markers in particular high sensitivity hs CRP have been found to be strong predictors of increased risk for type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease independent of other traditional risk factors.

As presented in the level of hs CRP was not greatly affected by ovariectomy nor by the obesigenic diet. The addition of AXOS to the test diet did not modify hs CRP level in sham and ovariectomized animals. Addition of inulin alone or in combination with AXOS significantly decreased hs CRP level in both groups suggesting an anti inflammatory effect of this fiber.

In conclusion the fermentable fibers used in this experimental setup inulin and or AXOS positively impacted adipose tissue depots and inflammatory status brought about by an obesigenic pro inflammatory diet and or a physiological hormonal deficiency inducing inflammation and metabolic perturbations. The mixture of inulin 80 and AXOS 20 synergistically reduced sub cutaneous and visceral adipose tissue weight with concomitant reduction of leptin and hs CRP levels indicating a systemic anti inflammatory effect of such a mixture.

The high pH anion exchange chromatography with pulse amperometry detection HPAEC PAD analysis was done on a dionex DX500 line using a CarboPAc PA100 column and a CarboPAc PA100 guard column both kept at 30 C. The flow rate was 1 ml min. The eluent was NaOH 160 mM. A linear gradient of sodium acetate ranging from 0 to 500 mM was applied during the 90 minutes of the run. Samples were dissolved in water 1 g l and filtered on 0.22 m prior to the injection 25 L .

The HPAEC PAD profile shown in reveals the presence of oligomers. Monomers elute within the 4 first minutes of the run.

HPSEC see was performed on a Waters HPLC line including a 515 pump a 717 autosampler and a 2410 refractometer as detector. The separation was done using pure water as mobile phase 1 ml min on a KS 804 size exclusion chromatography column 8.0 300 mm with a KS G 6.0 50 mm guard column SHODEX SHOWA DENKO EUROPE GmbH Konrad Zuse Platz 4 81829 M nchen Munich Deutschland Germany both maintained at 70 C. All preparations were dissolved in distilled water filtered and injected 20 l . Retention time calibration was done using the P 82 pullulan standard Shodex containing the following markers 788000 404000 212000 112000 47300 22800 11800 and 5900 Daltons and with stachyose 667 Daltons maltotriose 504 Daltons sucrose 342 Daltons and glucose 180 Daltons . The corresponding retention times are represented cross symbols on the graph from left to right in decreasing molecular weight order . The dashed line separating the area under the curve in 2 equal parts determines the average Dp 6.

